                                                                                   7
          (REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE. )

                      October 1-3, 1924
ADDENDA, RECOMMENDATIONS OF JUDICIAL CO!llFERENCE
  I lIire(~t ntftmtinn to recllInmeJl(llltillllS alioptf'd by th(' .Judicial
C.mfercnce IIf Senior Circuit Judges, held in Washington, D. C.,
October I, 2, and 3, 1924, in &ccnrdance with st'Ctinn 2 IIf the I\(·t nf
Cnngrrss nr Sept('mber 14, 1922 (42 Stat. 837, S38):


    The CIIII(I'I'Nlee renews it..'1 recummendatillll that p",,-isillll be marle
fill' IWII new circuit judges in the Eighth Circuit, two new district
judges in the Southern Dilltrict IIf New Ynrk, and line new distl'iet.
judge in the Nurthem m!!triet IIf Geurgin, Th.~ cllnfe..ellce further
recommends that a nt'w district judge he prol-idell in the Western
District IIf ~('w York, nnd R nl'W lIislril,t judge ill the District of
Maryland.
                   8£CO!'lD-I'KOHIHll'IOX     I.,~II"   t:Xt·.H~C.;~";XT


   The memhers of this ('nll(ertm,"e Ill"e IIf the opinion, hu.sed on their
experience in respc(~t to the lll'osecutiull of offenses nnder t·he prohi­
hit.ion law, tho.t it would lIIo.ke 1lI11('h for effectiveness ill ~nforciug
that lllw if the prohihition unit (':nuld he hndily transferred to the
Depllrl.lIlellt n( .Justice, nile! nil the npl'roprio.tiolls for such enforce­
lIlent he expcIldc.1 under tilt' dircdion of the Attorney General;
that in tltis wILy the Ilttelllpted Pl"O,;(lCU tion or tri vial, futile, and
unimportant ctlses, whieh now orO',",I the dockets through the ill­
advised zeal lUlU pract.i('al ignorance of prohihitioll agents, can be
avoided, ILnd only those I"llSes tl~kcn up ILIIII pressed whieh will really
deter the priocipal offtllHlen:; and in the prepl1rl1tiull or whirh district
aUoMleys will ha~'e 1\ personal responsihility,
                              "HlIlU -IIA:--J(RI'I'TC\'


  The conference recolllmends til Cllngl'ess t hut the hllllkrllptey Stat­
utes he SI) Hmelld{'d thnt. all jllll;,!rnents. dcc'l"ee<;, ordCl'l'I, aud -pro­
cecdingB in hankrnptcy shall he 1't.·\'i(IWNI ily I~pp('al only, an(1 that
to he speedily takHII .
                   •'"rKTH- -1.IIINAKn;"   ."11(   n: ...;KAL Cut.:KTH


  \Vherml!l & cOlIsillHraLion of the (!oudi tilln IIf t.ho law lih..sl·ictl pro­
\'id(~d and imperaLi\'cly reqllircd f(Jr the use o( the United State!!
""urt!' o( apr"Rls hnll ,lis(·I .. s(·d the flld 1hRt no Inw lihrary worthy
 8
or' the name hu ever been provided for the use of the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the Second Circuit, and none has ever been provided at
                                                                              c.
Denver for the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit where
that court is required to ·hold a term annually, that many of the
books in the libraries provided for the circuit courts of appeals have
become so old and dilapidated that they must be repaired and
rebound to keep them in use, and the purchase of the later volumes of
sets of reports furnished and later te..'T;tbooks is necessary to continue'
the usefulness of Buch reports a.nd to perfect these lihraries.
   Whereas this condition of the libraries compels the judges to post.­
pone deoisiolW and opinions until law books H8C6Slilary to 8SSUf8 cor­
rect conclusions clln be borroWed and .r.ea.d, and hampers and dekya
the Rdministration of justice in the Federal courts.
   IltllolfJeil, That this judicial conference earnestly recOmmends to the
President of the United States, the Attomey Geaeral, the Director
of the Budget, Ilnd the CongrM8 of the United States.:
   1. That the sum of 12,500 be annuallyaad speeifical.ly appro­
})riat.ed &ad pa.id to each of the clerks of each of the circuit CGQri&
of a.ppeala t6 be e.xperuled by him as direetedby the presiding jw1ge
of his court, to repair old books, purohase new ones, and to maiD.t.ain
and increase every library, sDd that because there !lore two lihrariea
of equal size, one at St. Paul and one at St. Louis in the Eighth
Circuit, $5,000 be appropriated and paid annually to the clerk of
the court of appeR.ls of that. circuit to maintain and increase those
libraril'S.
   II. That 115,000 he appropriated and paid to the clerk of the
Circuit Court of ~\.ppeals of the Second Cireuit to be expended as
dirocted by the presiding judge of that circuit to purchase books,
pamphJets, etc., and to est.ablish a IRW library for that court in New
York City.
   III. That $8,000 he appropriated and paid to the clerk of the Cir­
cuit Court IIf Appeals of I~ighth Circuit to be expended as directed
by the presiding juuge or that circuit to purchase the ptoperbooks
and establish a law library for that court at Denver.
