                      i





 REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
Washington, D. C., October 1, 1927.




                                      "
                                                                          ,23 



                           WASHINGTON,     D. C., October 1, 1.927.

      The Conference of Senior Circuit Judges provided for by
    Section 2 of the Act of Congress of September 14th, 1922
    (42 Stat. 837, 838), met in the Conference Room of the Su­
    preme Court of the United States, at Washington, D. C.,
    September 27th, 1927, and held a session of three days. At
    the conclusion of the Conference, Chief Justice Taft, who
    presided, issued the following statement of the proceedings
    of the Conference and its resolutions, to be made public and
    to be circulated to the Supreme Justices, the Circuit Judges
    and the District Judges.

      The judges of the Circuit Courts of Appeals in attendance 'were
    as follows:
      First Circuit, George H. Bingham; 2nd Circuit, Martin T.
    Manton; 3rd Circuit, J. Warren Davis; 4th Circuit, Edmund
    Waddill, jr.; 5th Circuit, Richard W. Walker; 6th Circuit, Arthur
    C. Denison; 7th Circuit, Samuel Alschuler; 8th Circuit, Walter
    H. Sanborn; 9th Circuit, William B. Gilbert.
e ' The time of the Conference was first occupied in going over re­
    ports from each circuit and the districts of each circuit to deter­
    mine what the condition of the business was at the close of the
   fiscal year.
      In that discussion the names of district judges who could be
   transferred from one .circuit to another at different times during
   the year were furnished by the judges of circuits from which such
   judges could be taken without interference with the business of
   their own districts.
      Much discussion was had with reference to the forms to be sent
   to the district judges for additional information to be received .by
   the senior circuit judges for presentation to the conference next'
   year,' and new forms and instructions will be issued.
                 ATTORNEY GENERAL HEARD AT LENGTH.

     The conference heard the Attorney General at length on the
   condition of business in the district courts and heard also ,sug­
   gestions from the Committee on Jurisprudence and Law Reform
   of the American Bar Association.




                                                                            "
24 

                                    2

       REMOVAL OF DEAD CASES· FROM THE DIS:c&ICT COURT DOCKETS •

    .At the Judicial Conference of Senior Circuit Judges held in
  October, 1924, the following suggestion was made to the United
  States district judges as a rule which they should adopt for the
  dispatch of business:
    "In any case which might have been brought to trial, in which
  no action has been taken by the parties for one year, it shall be the
  duty of the clerk to mail notice to counsel of record and to the
  parties thereto, if their post office addresses are known, 30 days
  before the opening of the term of court following the first of Jan­
  uary in each year. If such notice has been given and no action
  has been taken in the case in the meantime, an order of dismissal
  shall be entered as of course at the opening of such term of court."
    This suggestion has been adopted ina great many districts and
  has resulted in the removal from the docket of many dead cases,
  which until their dismissal or removal gave the appearance of a
  congestion of business which the conditions did not justify and
  Were 'misleading as to the necessity for additional judges or courts.
    .At the present Judicial Conference of 1927, the Attorney Gen­
  eral has presented statistics which are of great interest in showing
  that efficient work may still be done in this matter.
    From the reports of the clerks and district attorneys, there are
  tabulated for each District and for the District of Columbia, the
  criminal cases, the civil eases in which the United States is a party,
  and the private suits pending at the close of June 30, 1926, and
  the same classes of cases pending at the close of June 30, 1927, and
  the number of these classes of eases in which no aetion has been
  taken by the -court or counsel for one year or more at the close of
  business June 30, 1927.

                NUMBER OF INACTIVE CASES CALCULATED.

     From this the Attorney General has had ealculated the per­
   centage of inactive United. States cases as compared with the total
   of them, and the same percentage of inactive eases of all classes,
   including private civil cases, except bankruptcy.
     He has had recapitulated these statistics by Circuits, and from
   his statement it appears that in the 1st Circuit the number of in­
   active United States cases is 36.37 per cent; in the 2nd Circuit,
   56.88 per cent; in the 3rd Circuit, 51.32 per cent; in the 4th Cir­
   cuit, 34.90 per cent; in the 5th Circuit, 39.12 per cent; in the 6th


                                                                           '- 1
                                                                              1
                                                                          25
                                  3

Circuit, 27.07 per cent; in the 7th Circuit, 23.40 per oont; in the
8th Circuit, 33.88 per cent; in the 9th Circuit, 30.9 per cent, and
in the District of Columbia, 23.80 per cent.
  Or, averaging the total, 40.73 per cent of the United States cases
now on the dockets have been inactive.
  Eliminating bankruptcy, and including private civil suits, the
percentage of inactive cases of all classes is, for the 1st Circuit,
43.51 per cent; for the 2nd Circuit, 44.46 per cent; for the 3rd
Circuit 48.35 per cent; for the 4th Circuit 42.98 per cent; for
the 5th Circuit, 30.10 per cent; for the 6th Circuit, 19..37 per cent;
for the 7th Circuit, 22.17 per cent; for the 8th Circuit, 26.65 per
cent; for the 9th Circuit, 23.55 per cent; and for the District ()f
Columbia, 11.23 per cent, or an average total of 33.76 per cent.
   It is quite possible that in this percentage of inactive cases
shown are a number that due to the failure of the deficiency ap­
propriation bill, or for other reasons, should not be dismissed ·and
are really not dead cases, but it is not probable that such reasons
apply in many of the cases in which no action has been taken what­
ever for a full year.
        DISMISSAL OF YEAR-OLD INACTIVE CASES SUGGESTED.

   It is thought wise, therefore, to renew and emphasize the sugges­
tion of 1924 to the district judges that in every district and divi­
sion in cases in which no action has been taken by the parties for one
year, the clerk shall issue the notice to counsel of record 30 days be­
fore the opening of the term of court following the first of January
in each year, and if such notice has been given and no action has
been taken in any case in the meantime and no legitimate explana­
tion made, an order of dismissal shall be entered as of course at
the opening of such term of court.
    In the form of requests for information made to district judges
by the senior circuit judges, there should be included an inquiry
to each district judge whether such general call of the docket of
all pending cases coming within the Conference's suggestion of
1924 has been had in his district and its divisions, and what was
the result in dismissals.
    It is thought that while the suggestion of 1924 in this matter
was followed by many district courts, it has not been followed by
 all, and that those which have neglected it should see that it is
enforced.
26
                                       4

             RECOMMEND PREFERENCE BE GIVEN CRIMINAL CASES.

       The Conference resolved that it would be helpful for each cir­
     cuit court of appeals to adopt the plan now followed in the Su­



                                                                                  ,'.
     preme Court, of advancing, for the earliest hearing possible, all
     writs of error and habeas corpus cases involving the prosecution
     of crime, and, so far as the statutes permit, giving them preference
     over every other class of hearings.
     STAY OF ISSUING MANDATE IN CmCUIT COURTS OF APPEALS, PENDING
                           PETITION FOR CERTIORARI.

       The Conference suggests to the circuit courts of appeals that
     each shall adopt a rule providing that where a stay of the issuing
     of mandate is applied for to it, pending an application to the Su­
     premeCourt of the United States for a writ of certiorari seeking
     review of a decision of such court, the stay shall be for not more
     than 30 days and shall contain a provision that if within the 30
     days there is filed with the clerk of the court the certificate of
     the clerk of the Supreme Court that the certiorari petition, record
     and brief have been filed and proof by affidavit of notice thereof
     under paragraph 3 of Rule 35, of the Supreme Court be given,
     the stay shall continue until the final disposition of the case by       (
     the Supreme Court. Immediately upon the filing of a copy of an
     order denying the writ applied for, the clerk of the circuit court
     of appeals shall issue the mandate.

           CONSIDERATION SUGGESTED OF SUBJECT OF CLERKS' FEES.

       The Conference recommends that there be provided for each
     circuit judge a law clerk, to be appointed by him, who shall
     receive a salary of not more than $3,OOO,and it recommends that
     the Attorney General seek to secure provision for the payment of
     the salaries of such law clerks through an appropriate item of the
     budget for the year.
              FEES FOR CIiERltS OF cmCUIT COURTS OF APPEALS.

        Since the present table of fees of the clerks of the circuit courts
     of appeals was fixed more than 30 years ago, some revisions may be
     desirable. The Conference respectfully suggests that the Supreme
     Court consider the subject, and indicate its willingness to receive
     recommendations on this subject from the members of the Con­
     ference.
                                                                                  ,I
                                                                              c' 

        ·_."   ...

                                                                         27
                                      5

  The Conference further authorizes the Chief Justice, if at any
time it seems necessary, to appoint a committee from" this Confer­
ence to recommend legislation on this head.
                     DISTRIBUTION OF LAW BOOKS TO JUDGES.

  The Conference, by resolution, desires to express to the Attorney
General and his assistants its appreciation of the satisfactory
manner in which the needs of the judges for law books have been
met during the last year under the administration of the depart­
ment, and its belief that the continuance of the present system
and appropriations will fairly meet the reasonable wants of the
judges for the current year.
                             INCREASE OF JUDGES.

   At the Conference of last year, this body made recommendations
of increases of district judgeships and one circuit judgeship as
follows:
   A special provision for the appointment of an additional judge
;n southern Iowa, to assist the judge now in office, who is ~isabled
Jy bad health from doing his full work, with no succession to
the office of the present judge.
   Three new district judges to be provided for in the Southern
District of New York, and one circuit judge in the Second Circuit.
   A new district judge in the Eastern District of New York.
   A new district judge in the Western District of New York, and
one in the District of Connecticut.
   A new district judge in the District of Maryland.
   A new district judge in the Eastern District of Michigan.
   A new district judge in the Western District o~ North Carolina,
or the el)'tablishment of a third new district.
   In addition to this the last Conference recommended that where
two judges had died, one in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
and the other one in the Northern District of California, provision
be made for successors to those deceased judges, because under the
legislation by which the offices were created there was no power
given the President to appoint successors.
   Congress at its last session provided for a, judge in the Northern
District of New York which the Conference did not recommend,
but which it is glad to have had provided.
    Congress followed during its last session all the foregoing recom­
  'endations, except that it failed to provide for a judge in the
28
                                      6

     Southern District of Iowa, to assist Judge Wade, the regular judge
     of that circuit, who is disabled, and failed to provide for another
     circuit judge in the Second Circuit, and for three district judges
     in the Southern District of New York, and one district judge in
     the Eastern District of New York.
        The Conference renews its recommendation that provision be
     made for an additional district judge in the Southern District of
     Iowa. The business of the district is important and the necessity
     for supplying judges from other parts of the Circuit should not
     continue.
        The Conference further earnestly urges that the additional cir­
     cuit judge for the Second Circuit, the four district judges in New
     York-three in the Southern District, and one in the Eastern
     District, be provided.
        In the last Conference report it set forth the need of these four
     district 'judges and the circuit jUdge. We earnestly urge the same
     reasons for this legislation as still existing and pressing.
        We make one new recommendation, and that is that there be an
     additional circuit judge in the Sixth Circuit. The Circuit Courts
     of Appeals of all the circuits have kept up with their dockets, so
     that there has been no retardation of business in those courts, but
     the strain of the work of the judges to do the business is such
     that the Second and the Sixth Circuits additional force is very
     necessary.
        CONDITION OF COURT BUSINESS REPORTED MORE SATlSFACTORY.

       The condition of business in the district courts of all the
     country is much more satisfactory than it was a year ago. In
     1926, of the civil eases in whicb the United States was a' party,
     there were commenced 17,504 cases, and there were terminated
     17,236 eases. In 1927, there were 17,887 eases commenced, and
     there were terminated 19,952 eases, so that there were pending in
     1926, 18,455 eases, and in 1927 they had been reduced to 16,443
     eases.
       Of the criminal eases, there were commenced 68,582 eases in
     1926, and 64,614 in 1927. In 1926, there were terminated 76,536
     eases. In 1927, there were terminated 67,279 eases. There were
     pending in 1926, 38,858 eases. That has been now reduced for
     1927 to 35,386.
       With the further and more rigid enforcement of the rule recom·
     mended for the annual call of the docket and the dismissal of all
                                 7

cases in which without proper excuse no action has been taken for
a year, we feel confident that the cases now pending can be reduced
so as more clearly to show the real business on the docket.
   The courts as now organized in the United States are able, we
think, to take care of the business as it comes in, if they are given
the additional judges in the Southern and Eastern Districts of New
York and the Southern District of Iowa. There has been no oppor­
tunity fully to show the advantage which, follows from the work of
the judges created by the last Congress.
   The language of the report made to this Conference by the
veteran and distinguished senior circuit judge of the whole
United States as to his, the Eighth Circuit, the largest circuit in
the United States, with 13 States in its jurisdiction, fairly states
the situation not only for that circuit but for the whole United
States, with the qualifications already made as to New York City
and Brooklyn.
   Judge Sanborn says:
   "The trials of criminal cases, especially of the prohibition and
 anti-narcotic cases, are occupying much less of the time of the
 judges than they were two or three years ago. In the Minnesota
 district 1,619 criminal cases were disposed of in the year ending
 June 30, 1924; in the year ending June 30, 1927, 690 criminal
 cases were disposed of and all but 33 without trials. During 1924
 almost all the time of the district judges was occupied in trying
 criminal cases.
   "The condition of the business throughout the circuit is far
 more satisfactory than it has been at any time within the last five
 years. The time of the judges is principally occupied in trying
 important civil cases. The criminal cases are rapidly disposed of,
 nearly as fast as they come in. Few criminal cases comparatively
 remain on the calendar from term to term.
   "There remains yet a congestion of private civil cases, such as
 important equity cases, including especially patent cases; but if
 there is no serious change in the laws by Acts of Congress, the work
 in this circuit will in my opinion be promptly and speedily dis­
 posed of as itl. comes in."

                                     WH. H. TAFT, Chief Justice.
30 





"
