,~   ..                                                                            ,'.,....,-:.



                                                                                  41 



                 REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
                                OCTOBER SESSION,   1930.

             The Judicial Conference provided for in the Act of Congress of
          September 14, 1922 (42 Stat. 837, 838; sec. 218, Title 28, U. S.
          Code) was called and sat for three days, October 1, 2 and 3, 1930.
          The following judges were present in response to the call:
             First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge George H. Bingham.
             Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Martin T. Manton.
             Third Circuit, Seuior Circuit Judge Joseph Buffingtou.
             Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Nathan P. Bryan.
             Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Arthur C. Deuison.
             Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Samuel Aischuler•.
             Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone.
             Tenth Circuit, Seuior Circuit Judge Robert E. Lewis.
             The senior circuit judge for the Fourth Circuit, Judge WaddiI!.
          was absent, and his place was taken by Circuit Judge John J.
          Parker.
             The senior circuit judge for the Ninth Circuit, Judge Gilbert,
          was absent, and his place was taken by Circuit Judge Frank H.
          Rudkin.
             The Attorney General, the Solicitor General, and their assistants
          charged with the examination of statistics were present. Among
          other recommendations and suggestions, the Attorney General sub­
          mitted to the Conference a report of the condition of the dockets
          of the federal district courts and circuit courts of appeals for the
          fiscal year ending June 30, 1930, as compa.red with the fiscal year
          ending June 30, 1929. Each circuit judge also presented to the
          Conference a detailed report, by districts, of the work of the courts
          in his circuit for the fiscal year 1930.
             Our examination of the submitted statistics discloses that there
          were pending upon the dockets of the district courts at the close of
          the fiscal year 1930, 155,730 cases as compared with 148,566 cases
          pending at the close of the previous fiscal year, that is, an excess
          of over 7,000 cases, embracing civil cases, both governmental and
          private, criminal cases and bankruptcy cases.
42 

                                        2

         The increase in the number of pending cases, as reported by the
       Attorney General, is as follows:
                                                         1929       1930
       U. S. Civil cases pending ................... .   21,108     21,320
       Criminal cases pending .................... .     31,153     35,849
       Private suits pending ..................... .     37,503     37,151
       Bankruptcy cases pending ................. .      58,802     61,410

                                                       148,566     155,730
          It thus appears that the increased number pending at the close
       of the fiscal year 1930 is accounted for solely by the uumber of
       United States civil, criminal and bankruptcy cases pending, since
       there was a slight decrease in the number of private suits. It is
       further to be noted that increase in the number of pending cases
       is in large measure due to the increase in cases filed during the
       year. In our last report we pointed out that during the fiscal year
       1929 8,034 more cases were commenced in the district courts than
       were commenced in the fiscal year 1928. But during the fiscal year
       1930 slightly over 9,500 more cases were commenced in the district
       courts than were commenced in those courts during the fiscal year
       1929. The comparison is as follows:
                                                        1929        1930
       U. s.. Civil cases commenced ................ . 24,307       24,934 

       Criminal cases commenced ................. . 86,348          87,305 

       Private suits commenced ................... . 20,980         23,391 

       Bankruptcy cases commenced ............. . 57,280            62,845 

                                                        188,915     198,475
          The increase in cases brought under the National Prohibition Act
       is thus shown:
                                                          1929       1930
       Prohibition cases (civil) commenced ......... . 11,237        11,882
       Prohibition cases (criminal) commenced ..... . 56,786         56,992
          We are also informed that in the 35,849 criminal cases pending
       on June 30, 1930 there were included 22,671 cases under the Na­
       tional Prohibition Act.
          The inquiry discloses that the congestion in the federal district
       courts, despite the fact that, taken as a whole, the increase in the
       number of cases pending at the end of the year was less than the
       number of new cases brought, continues to be a major problem.
       In addressing ourselves to the question of the advisability of
                                                                                  43
                                          3
if'""
\. 	    making provision for the appointment of additional judges, we are
        necessarily brought to the consideration of the effect of the re­
        strictions now imposed by statute upon' the appointment of suc­
        cessors to judges, where vacancies now exist or will hereafter arise.
        Our conclusion is that it is important that these restrictions should
        be removed, as stated in the following resolution adopted by the
        Conference:
           "By the Act of September 14, 1922 (sec. 3, Tit. 28, U. S. Code)
        Congress created twenty additional district judgeships; but in the
        belief that the need was temporary and litigations would decrease,
        it imposed the limitation that vacancies therein should not be filled,
        without a further special act. Experience has shown that the need
        was permanent, and. in every instance (but one,-New Mexico)
        where a vacancy has occurred there has been no question of the
        need of continuing the judgeship; but the time involved in getting
        the necessary special act has caused delay and congestion. There
        now remain of yacancies that have occurred or will occur in these
        judgeships so limited fourteen instances, viz:
                two in the District of Massachusetts;
                two in the Southern District of New York;
                one in the Eastern District of New York;
                one in the Western District of Pennsylvania;
                one in the Eastern District of Michigan;
                one in the 'Western District of Missouri;
                one in the Southern District of New Jersey j
                one in the Northern District of Texas;
                one in the Northern District of Ohio;
                one in the Eastern District of Missouri j
                one in the Southern District of California;
                one in the District of Arizona.
           "Iu the same general situation, through the existence of a linti­
        tation upon filling a vacancy and the demonstrated permanent
        need that the vacancy when occurring should be filled, are a cir­
        cuit judgeship in the Ninth Circuit (Act of March 1, 1929, sec.
        213b, Tit. 28, U. S. Code) and district judgeships in Minnesota
         (Act of March 2, 1925, sec. 4, Tit. 28, U. S. Code) and in the
        Sonthern District of Iowa (Act of January 19, 1928, sec. 4(i)
        Tit. 28, U. S. Code).                                                 '
           "The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals will be left with only
        three judges, while it has had four for many years and will need
        four; and the districts of Minnesota and Southern Iowa cannot
        do without these judgeships.
           "Accordingly, in order that from time to time there be no in­
        terruption and delay, we request the Attorney General to draft
        and urge the passage of legislation removing this limitation as to
        these specified judgeships and making them permanent."
44 

                                        4

          The removal of the limitations above mentioned, and the ap­
       pointment of successors where vacancies now exist or will here­
       after occur, will not give' adequate relief. In several parts of the
       country there is present need of additional judges. Accordingly
       the Conference recommends the enactment of legislation making
       provision for additional district judges as follows:
               an additional district judge for the Southern District of
                 New York;
               an additional district judge for the Eastern District of
                 New York;
               an additional district judge for the Northern District of
               Georgia;
               an additional district judge for the Eastern District of
                 Michigan;
               an additional district judge for West Virginia.
          It is the sense of the Conference that no further provision
       for district judges should be made in existing districts at this
       time.
          In our consideration of the problem of congestion, we have been
       met with proposals for the creation, not simply of additional judge­
       ships, but of additional districts, which would involve the pro­
       vision of the positions and facilities essential to the equipment of
       new districts. The question is thus presented as to the best means
       of promoting the economical and efficient administration of justice
       in the federal courts, whether by divisions of districts, consolida­
       tion of districts, or creation of new districts, and it seemed to the
       Conference that the time had come for a comprehensive survey.
       The Conference adopted the following resolution:
          "The Attorney General calls our attention to the fact that there
       are pending in Congress several bills for the creation of new dis­
       tricts, and asks our recommendation as to the, better method of
       meeting the need for more judicial service; either by making new
       districts or by additional judges in existing districts. It is repre­
       sented to us by the West Virginia judges that special need for ad­
       ditional judicial service there exists and that a new district is the
       preferable method. We do not feel prepared to recommend either
       as to this instance or as to the general policy, until possessed of
       more information.
          "\Ve therefore request the Attorney General to make a survey
       or study of the general subject, as exhaustive as he may find
       feasible, including the possible consolidation or change of existing
       districts and division points, with estimates of cost and efficiency,
        and report the same to us at our next meeting."
                                          5
..r-'
•	          The Conference recommends to the Attorney General that House
        Bill 11622, now pending, be so amended as to provide that the
        Eastern and Western Districts of Louisiana be combined to make
        but one district for Louisiana.
            The Conference is satisfied that it is feasible under existing laws 

        to hold conferences of the district judges within each circnit, and 

        believes that such conferences to deal with local problems of ad­

        ministration will prove to be of no little value. Such conferences 

        have been held to advantage in the Sixth and Eighth Circuits. 

        The Conference adopted a resolution approving this policy. 

            In view of the pendency of the inquiry which is being under­ 

        taken by the Department of Justice through the Solicitor General, 

        the Conference postponed consideration of matters relating to 

        procedure in bankruptcy cases until the next Conference. 

            \Ve observe, with satisfaction, that the Circuit Courts of Appeals 

        are reasonably abreast of their dockets; that the congestion in the 

         Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit due to the illness 

        .of judges, which we reported last year, has been much relieved by 

         the work of the judges of that court during the past fiscal year. 

         \Ve note that legislation has been enacted to provide an additional 

         circuit judge for the Fifth Circuit to remedy the overburdening 

         of the circuit judges upon which we commented last year. Aside 

         from the recommendation which we make for the enactment of 

         legislation to provide for the appointment of a successor to a circuit 

         judge in the Ninth Circuit, when a vacancy shall occur, we have no 

         recommendations at the present time for any increase in the judi­ 

         ciar forces in the Circuit Courts of Appeals.. 

            The Conference is advised that the existing statute (Act of Con­
         gress of March 3, 1911, c. 231, sec. 126; 36 Stat. 1132; soo. 223,
         Tit. 28, U. S. Code) requiring the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
         Fifth Circuit to hold sessions each year at Atlanta, Georgia; Mont­        (
         gomery, Alabama; and Ft. Worth, Texas; in addition to its ses­
         sion at New Orleans, Louisiana, has imposed unnecessary hardship
         upon the judges of that court and tends to delay the prompt dis­
         position of the business of the court without compensating ad­
         vantages. The Conference therefore recommends the amendment
         of the statute so as to require the holding of sessions of the Circuit
         Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit at New Orleans, Louisiana,
         only.
             The Conference requests the Attorney General to make provision
          to furnish to each Circuit Court of Appeals a copy of the U. S.
,I.
46

                                       6
     Supreme Court Service, a publication of the Legal Research Ser­
     vice, such copy to be sent as directed by the senior circuit judge.
        The Conference has taken under consideration the possibility of
     improving the making and compilation of statistics of judicial
     work in the federal district courts and circuit courts of appeals. It
     is highly desirable that there should be uniform methods in the
     keeping of statistics in the various circuits so that resulting data
     may afford a satisfactory basis for comparison. It is also im­
     portant that further consideration should be given to the cate­
     gories to be adopted for the keeping of statistics so that there may
     be such units of specification as will furnish, so far as practicable,
     an adequate view of the work of each court. The science of judi­
     cial statistics is in the making and before recommending the adop­
     tion of an improved system for the federal courts the Conference
     believes that it should have advice from each circuit as to the
     measures deemed to be best adapted to the end sought and that
     through a consideration of the proposals thus submitted an ap­
     propriate plan may be formulated. Accordingly the Conference
     adopted a resolution that each senior circuit judge should send to
     the Chief Justice on or before March 1st next his conception of the
     form to be used for making a report of the business of the circuit
     for the fiscal year; that the Chief Justice be empowered to appoint
     a committee of the Conference, if he thinks it desirable in connec­
     tion with this subject, and to prepare and to submit to the next
     Conference a form for use i'n all circuits.
        The Conference also took into consideration the appropriate de­
     velopment of its own work as an effective agency for the improve­
     ment of the administration of justice in the federal courts. In
     order to avoid any question as to the scope of the authority which
     Congress intended to confer upon the Conference as such, the
     Conference thinks it advisable that there should be an amendment
     of the statute which created it (Act of September 14, 1922, 42
      Stat. 837, 838; sec. 218, Tit. 28, U. S. Code). The Conference
     has resolved to request the Attorney General to urge such change
     in the statute as shall authorize the Conference to recommend to
     the Congress, from time to time, such changes in statutory law
     affecting the jurisdiction, practice, evidence and procedure of and
      in the different district courts and circuit courts of appeals as may
      to the Conference seem desirable.
             For the Judicial Conference:
                                              CHARLES   E.   HUGHES,          f-
                                                             Ohief Justice.   (4
       October 4, 1930.
