                                                                        101


              REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
                         SEPTEMBER SESSION,    1937.


,   \     The Judicial Conference provided for in the Act of Con­
        gress of September 14, 1922 (U. S. Code, Title 28, sec. 218),
        convened on September 23, 1937, and continued in session
        for three days. The following Senior Circuit Judges were
        present in response to the call of the Chief Justice:
          First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge George H. Bingham.
          Second Circuit, Senior Oircuit Judge Martin T. Manton.
          Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Joseph Buffington.
          Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker.
          Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Rufus E. Foster.
          Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Charles H. Moorman.
          Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans.
          Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone.
          Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Curtis D. Wilbur.
           The Senior Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, Judge
        Robert E. Lewis, was absent, and his place was taken by
        Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips.
           By Act of Congress of July 5, 1937, provision was made
        for representation in the Oonference of the United States
        Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. As the
        Chief Justice of that Court was unable to be preseDIt, Jus­
        tice D. Lawrence Groner attended in his stead
           The Attorney General and the Solicitor General, with
        their aides, were present at the opening of the Oonference.

          State of the Dockets.-Number of Cases Begun, Disposed
        of, and Pending, in the Federal District Courts.
          The Attorney General submitted to the Conference a
        report of the condition of the dockets of the district courts
        for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1937, as compared with
108 

                                       2
        the previous year. Each Circuit Judge also presented to
        the Conference a detailed report, by districts, of the work
        of the courts in his circuit.
           The report of the Attorney General disclosed the follow­
        ing comparison of criminal and civil cases (exclusive of
        bankruptcy cases) commenced and terminated during the
        fiscal years 1936 (as revised) and 1937:
                                     Commenced            Terminated
                                     1936   1937      1936      1937
            Criminal ............ 35,920 35,369      36,396 35,351 

            Civil ............... 39,391 32,672      41,384 37,393 


          The summaries show a considerable decrease in the total
        number of cases pending on June 30, 1937, in the district
        courts. This is true not only of the entire number but also
        of the totals in each general class except in criminal cases
        where the number of pending cases is slightly increased:
            Pen'ding Cases                                  1936       1937
        Criminal Cases .............................       10,993      11,011
        United States civil cases .....................    14,045      12,623
        Private suits ................................     31,294      27,995
        Bankruptcy cases ...........................       62,527      54,802

                 Total ....................••...•.... 118,859       106,431

          In accordance with his practice in recent years, the At­
        torney General submitted to the Conference tabulations
        showing the approximate time required to reach the trial
        of cases after joinder of issue in the several district courts.
        These tabulations indicate that important progress has been
        made. This is shown by the greater number of districts
        in which trial dockets are stated to be current, that is, where
        all cases in which issue has been joined and which are ready
        for trial are disposed of not later than the term following
        the joinder of issue, except cases continued at the re­
        quest of eounseL In the fiscal year 1934, there were only
        31 districts of which that could be said; in 1935, 46 districts;
        and in 1936, 51 districts. The Attorney General's present
                                                                  109
                              3
report shows that the work of the district courts is thus
current in 68 of the 84 districts, exclusive of the District
of Columbia. The Attorney General further shows that
the same condition prevails in some divisions of four other
districts and as to certain types of business in five other
districts. In some of the districts, equity cases may be tried
even between terms, if ready.
   Of the districts in which trial dockets are in arrears­
seventeen in all, including the District of Columbia-it ap­
pears that there are seven where the trial dockets are one
to six months in arrears, and seven others where the trial
dockets are between six months and a year in arrears. In
the temaining three districts, as pointed out by the Attor­
ney General, the worst conditions appear,-to wit, in the
Eastern District of Michigan where the equity trial docket
is tW'o years, and the law trial docket is ten months, in
arrears; in the Western District of Washington in which
the equity trial docket is three to four months, and the laW'
trial docket is fifteen months, in arrears; and the District
of Columbia in which the trial dockets are sixteen months
in arrears.
   This survey indicates clearly that the question of delays
in the trial of cases after joinder of issue is one that should
be considered with respect to particular districts and affords
no just ground for general criticism of the work of the dis­
trict courts. And in the few districts where serious delays
occur the special conditions obtaining should not be over­
looked.
   It should also be noted that important improvement has
been secured in certain districts which have heretofore pre­
sented the most serious delays. Thus, the Conference in
recent years has had occasion repeatedly to call attention
to the congestion and delays in the Southern District of
New York. It now appears, by the Attorney General's re­
port, that the average interval between joinder of issue and
 trial in ordinary course in that district has been reduced
110 

                                      4
        from eighteen to two months in actions at law and from
        twenty to four months in equity.
            The Attorney General has emphasized the presence of
        other sources of delay than merely the interval between
        joinder of issue and trial. He directs attention to the
        pendency of motions to dismiss, de~urrers, and prelimin­
        ary matters which frequently postpone joinder of issue.
        He states that his studies show that in many districts mo­
        tions are heard only once a month and sometimes only on
        the first day of the term. This matter was considered by
        the Conference and will be taken up by the Senior Circuit
        Judges with respect to each district within their circuits,
        and it is believed that in this way appropriate provision
        may be made to expedite the hearing and decision of pre­
        liminary questions which may arise prior to .joinder of issue
        and whatever delays may now be due to lack of such pro­
        vision may be avoided.
            Another source of delay pointed out by the Attorney
         General is the multiplication of places of holding court. It
         is quite obvious that this is an obstacle in the way of the
         speedy disposition of cases. It is also obvious that it may
         be difficult to secure a reduction in view of the local inter­
         ests affected. However, this cause of delay is attributable
         not to the federal judges but to mandatory requirements of
         statutes. In many instances these requirements were im­
         posed at a time when there were difficulties in transporta­
         tion which no longer exist. The Conference is of the
         opinion that this question should receive the careful con­
          sideration of Congress to the end that the district judges
         should be relieved of the duty of holding court in more
         places than are reasonably necessary. The Attorney Gen­
          eral recommends the enactment of legislation providing for
          the transfer of cases from one division to another, or from
          one place of holding court to another within the district,
          in order to make it possible for a case to be tried at the
          first term of court held at any place within the district. It
          may be possible to attain the desired end to a considerable
                                                                                11: 

                                            5
    r
    ~. , 	   extent by the action of the judges without legislation, but,
             so far as legislation may be found to be necessary, the Con­
             ference approves the recommendation of the Attorney Gen­
             eral in principle.

               Provision for Additional Judges in the Circuit Courts of
             Appeals.             ­
                The reports of the Senior Circuit Judges show that in
             general the Circuit Courts of Appeals are well up with their
             work. In six of the circuits and in the Court of Appeals
             for the District of Columbia, no additional judges are
             now required. It should be noted, however, that in the
             Eighth Circuit, the Court of Appeals is able to keep abreast
             of its work only through the aid of retired judges, of whom
             there are three. There is no certainty as to the length of
             time this aid will be available and if, in the future, it should
             be seriously lessened, the business of that court would re­
             quire another judge.                               •
                The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit is
             up with its work but in view of the severe and dispropor­
             tionate burden imposed upon its members by its heavy
             docket, an additional circuit judge is thought to be neces­
             sary.
                The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit is also
             fully up with its work but it is faced with a probable in­
             crease of business and in view of the extent of the present
             and future burden upon the court, it is felt desirable to

,            have an additional circuit judge.
                The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit is not
             able with the present number of judges to hear all of the
             cases as promptly as they should be heard and an additional
             circuit judge is necessary.
                While the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Cir­
             cuit has been able to dispose of its cases, it has been handi­
             capped by the delay in filling vacancies, one of which still
             remains. The court has been compelled to rely upon the
             constant assistance of district judges. It is the sense of
    112 


                                          6
            the Conference that it should not be necessary for a Court
            of Appeals to call in district judges except in some exigency
            for a temporary period. Even with the filling of the exist­
            ing vacancy, the Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit
            would still be lacking in a sufficient number of circuit judges
            to keep abreast of its work and the appointment of an addi­
            tional circuit judge is needed.
               Accordingly, the Conference recommends that provision
            be made for an additional circuit judge in the Second, Fifth,
            Sixth and Seventh Circuits, respectively_

              P'rovision for Additional District Judges.
              The Conference gave close consideration to the extent
            of the need for additional district judges, having regard to
            the volume and character of the work of the district courts
            and appropriate provision for the prompt disposition of
            cases.
              In 1936, the Conference recommended that additional
            judges be provided as follows:
                1 additional district judge for the Northern District    of
                  Georgia;
                1 additional district judge for the Eastern District     of
                  Louisiana;
                1 additional district judge for the Southern District    of
                  Texas;
                1 additional district judge for the Western District     of
                  Washington.
              It will be observed that the last mentioned district is one
            of the two districts (aside from the District of Columbia)
            to which the Attorney General has directed special atten­
            tion as showing serious arrearages. For this district as
            well as for the others, embraced in the recommendation of
            the Conference last year, no additional judges have yet been
            provided.
               The Conference renews its recommendation as to the four
            districts above mentioned.



I
                                                                       11
                                    7
          In past Conferences, it had been hoped that there would
       be an improvement in the state of the trial dookets in the
       Eastern District of Michigan, but this hope has not been


1      realized and in view of the arrearages, specially mentioned
       in the report of the Attorney General, the Conference
       recommends that provision be made for an additional
       judge.
          Because of special conditions in the District of Kansas,
       the Conference has concluded that an additional judge is
       needed there.
          Other increases are found to be advisable in the South­
       ern District of California, the Western District of Louis­
       iana and the Northern District of Ohio.
          In the District of Columbia special conditions demand
       consideration. In this District, the courts have not only
       the important federal cases committed to their jurisdiction,
       but also the cases which within a State would fall within
       the jurisdiction of state courts. As, prior to this year, the
       statute had not provided for the representation of this Dis­
.~-.   trict in the Conference, Justice Groner presented statistics
       applicable to a period of seven years. In view of the in­
       creasing number of cas~s and the impossibility of bringing
       the dockets up to date with the present judicial force, and
       having regard to the character of the work and the future
       needs of the District, the Conference recommends that pro­
       vision be made for three additional judges for the District
       Court for the District of Columbia.
          Including the recommendations made last year and now
       renewed, the Conference therefore recommends that .addi­
       tional district judges be provided as follows:
           1 additional district judge for the Northern District of
             Georgia;
           1 additional district judge for the Eastern District of
             Louisiana;
           1 additional district judge for the Western District of
             Louisiana;
           1 additional district judge for the Southern District of
             Texas j
114 

                                      B

            1 additional district judge for the Eastern District 01
              Michigan;
            1 additional district judge for the Northern District of
              Ohio;
            1 additional district judge for the Western District of
              Washlngton;
            1 additional district judge for the Southern District of
              California;
            1 additional district judge for the District of Kansas;
            3 additional district judges for the District of Co­
              lumbia.
           In the remaining seventy-five districts, it is the opinion
        of the Conference that no additional district judges are now
        required.
           The Conference is also of the opinion that the present
        method of assigning judges to meet .temporary emergencies
        is adequate.

          Boundaries of Judicial Districts and Circuits.
          In view of the pending inquiries by committees of the
        Senate and of the House of Representatives, respectively,
        which have been appointed to study the organization and
        operation of federal courts, it seemed to the Conference
        that it was probable that the boundaries of existing districts
        and circuits would become the subject of consideration. In
        order to provide the means for suitable collaboration in the
        examination of that subject, the Conference appointed the
        followillg committee to cooperate with the congressional
        committees, to wit, Judges Manton, Foster, Wilbur and
        Phillips, the Chief Justice being authorized to add to the
        committee from time to time.

          Appointtnent of Counsel for Indigent Defendants in
        Criminal Cases-Public Defender.
         The Attorney General brought to the attention of the
        Conference the subject of proper representation for indi­
                                                                        115

                                     9

        gent defendants in criminal cases and the following reso­
    !   lution was adopted:


~
              "We approve in principle the appointment of a
            Public Defender where the amount of criminal business
            of a district court justifies the appointment. In other
 I
I:
            districts the district judge before whom a criminal case
            is pending should appoint counsel for indigent de­
            fendants unless such assistance is declined by the de­
I           fendant. In exceptional cases involving a great amount
            of time and effort on the part of counsel so assigned,
            suitable provision should be made for compensation for
            such service, to be fixed by the court and to be a charge
            against the United States".

          Amendment of Section 25 of the Bankruptcy Act.
          At the Conference last year a committee was appointed
        to consider the advisability of amending Section 24b of the
        Bankruptcy Act with respect to appeals. Upon receiving
        the report of that committee, and af,ter considering the
        various questions raised in the discussion, the Conference
        adopted the following resolution:
              "Resolved: That in the opinion of this Conference
            Section 25 of the Bankruptcy Act should be amended so
            as to permit consideration by the Circuit Courts of Ap­
            peals and by the United States Court of Appeals for
            the District of Columbia of appeals which have not
            been properly applied for or allowed because of mis­
            take as to the applicable section of the statute relating
            to appeals in such cases. We suggest that the follow­
            ing subsection be added to the statute as Subseotion
            25 (d), viz:
                "(d) In any case where an appeal which is allow­
              able 'Only in the discretion of the appellate court
              under Subsection 24 (b) hereof has been allowed
              under Subsection 24 (a) or 25 (a), or where an appeal
              which is allowable only under Subsection 24 (a) or
116 

                                     10

              25 (a) has been applied for under Subsec.tion 24 (b),
              the appellate court before which such appeal or ap­
              plication is pending may in its discretion alloW' or en­
              tertain the appeal, notwithstanding the error in pro­
              cedure, and may review the order or decree appealed
              from as though the proper procedure for obtaining a
              review of same had been followed, provided the ap­
              peal has been allowed or the application for the
              allowance of appeal has been filed within thirty days
              of the entry of the order or decree which it is sought
              to revieW'."

          Appointment of Official Stenographers.-The Conference
        in 1936 adopted the following resolution:
               "Resolved that it is the sense of the Conference that
            provision should be made for the appointment of of­
            ficial stenographers for the reporting of trials in the
            district courts. It is not necessary that salaried offices
            be created. The need would be met by an act author­
            izing the district judge of each judicial district to ap­
            point one or more official court stenographers for that
            district, and to :fix by rule of court the compensation
            W'hich such stenographers shall be entitled to charge
            for their services, with provision that amounts proper­
            ly paid by parties for the service of such stenographers
            be taxable as costs in the case in the discretion of the
            trial judge."
          At the present session the Qonference renewed this
        recommendation.

         H. R. 4721.- The Conference adopted the following
        minute in relation to this measure:
              "The attention of the Conference has been called to
            H. R. 4721 now pending in the Congress.
              "The purpose of this bill is to require that in all
            cases, civil and criminal in the federal CQurts,as stated,
            the 'form, manner, and time of giving and granting in­
                                                             117 

                                                                 I
                         11                                      I

strnctions to the jury' shall be governed by the 'law
and practice in the state courts of the state in which
                                                                 I1
such trial may be had'. The result of the enactment
of this bill will be to change the practice in the federal
courts respecting the charging of juries in varying de­
grees in a large number of states. In many it will re­
sult in changing federal trial judges from active in­
strnments of justice to mere referees of contests be­
tween opposing counsel. It will deprive the juries of
the benefit of the learning and experience of the trial
judge in the determination of issues of fact. Even the
most honest and intelligent juries need and welcome the
trial judge's aid in performing their often difficult
duties so that they may arrive at a fair and impartial
verdict and do full justice between the paNies.
   "One of the outstanding excellencies of the federal
courts in accomplishing justice is the right and duty of
the federal judge to charge juries in a manner which
will be most helpful to them in arriving at just ver­
 dicts, a feature of federal practice of especial im­
 portance in criminal cases in the interests of both the
 Government and the defendant. Many decisions of the.
 United Sta,tes Supreme Court, as well as of the Courts
 of Appeals, haye carefully laid down such limits as are
 necessary to prevent any encroachment upon the pro­
 vince of the jury by a judge in his charge, and such
 limitations are carefully enforced. Thus controlled,
 the long established and well-working present method
 of charging juries in federal courts should, in the
 opinion of the Conference, be continued. In express­
 ing this opinion the Conference has not taken into con­
 sideration any questions of constitutional validity, and
 expresses no opinion thereon.
    "The bill would substitute a practice which in state
 jurisdictions is gradually being abandoned. A notable
 instance is a recent constitutional amendment in Cali­
 fornia adopting the federal practice respecting charg­
  ing juries in the courts of that State.
1 ..lvQ
                                       12
                "We respectfully call this bill to the attention of the
              Attorney General and earnestly urge him to oppose its
              enactment. "

           Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts of the
          United States.
            The Conference availed itself of the opportunity to con­
          sider the draft of the Rules of Civil Procedure prepared by
          the Advisory Committee appointed by the Supreme Court.
          Various questions were raised and discussed, to the end
          that the Supreme Court should have the advantage of the
          views of the members of the Conference.

           The Conference adjourned subject to the call of the
          Chief Justice.
                For the Judicial Conference:
                                             CHARLES   E.   HUGHES,
                                                       Chief Justice.

            September 28, 1937.
