       REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
                SEPTEMBER SESSION, 1939.




   The Judicial Conference provided for in the Act of Con­
 gress of September 14, 1922 (U. S. Code, Title 28, sec. 218),
 convened on September 28, 1939, and continued in session
 for three days. The following judges were present in re­
 sponse to the call of the Chief Justice:
   First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Scott Wilson.
   Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Learned Hand.
   Third Cinmit, Senior Circuit Judge John Biggs, Jr.
   Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker.
   Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Rufus E. Foster.
   Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Xenophon Hicks.
   Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans.
   Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone.
   Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Curtis D. ·Wilbur.
   District of Columbia, Chief Justice D. Lawrence Groner.
  The Senior Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, Judge
Robert E. I.. ewis, was unable to attend and his place was
taken by Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips.
  The Attorney General and the Solicitor General, with
their aides, were present at the opening of Ithe Conference.

     State of the dockets.-N1t11lber of cases begun, dis­
  posed of, and pending, in the Federal District Courts. The
. Attorney General submitted to the Confe-rence a report of
  the condition of the dockets of the district courts for the
  fiscal year ending June 30, 1939, as compared with the pre­
  vious fiscal year. Each Circuit Judge also presented to
  the Conference a detailed report, by districts, of the work
  of the courts in his circuit.
                                2
  The report of the Attorney General disclosed the follow­
ing comparison of cases commenced and terminated during
the fiscal years 1937 and 1938:
                                    Commenced        Terminated,
                                1938   1939          1938   1939
Criminal ..................... 34,099 34,701        34,214 35,588
Civil ........................ 33,409 33,531        38,155 37,463
Bankruptcy ................. 57,306 50,997          57,303 52,102
  For every year since 1932, the Conference has noted a
decrease, more or less pronounced, in the number of cases
pending in the district courts. The figures for the year
ending June 30, 1939, show a continuation of this trend:
    Pending cases                                   1938     1939
Criminal cases ............................. .     10,896   10,009
United States civil cases .................... .   11,285    9,593
Private suits ............................... .    24,587   22,347
Bankruptcy cases .......................... .      54,277   53,172

       Total ............................... 101,045        95,121 

  It will be observed that there has been some increase in
the number of criminal cases filed and terminated. But the
increase in the number terminated has been greater than
the increase in the number filed. The result is some re­
duction in the number of cases pending at the end of the
year, this amounting to almost 99~.
  There is an increase of 122 civil cases in the number filed
during the year ending June 30, 1939, as compared with
the preceding year. This difference is little more than
negligible. And it appears that during the past year and
the preceding year the number of civil cases terminated
was approximately 4,000 in excess of the number filed so
that there has been a steady decrease in the number of
pending cases.
  Taking together the United States civil cases and private
suits, the total number of civil cases pending at the end of
the fiscal year 1937 was 40,618; in 1938, 35,872; and in
                             3

1939, 31,940. This decrease in the volume of pending cases
is probably due, the Attorney General suggests, to the in­
crease in the number of judges.
   There has been a marked reduction in the number of
bankruptcy cases filed during the last fisoal year. But as
there has been a similar diminution in the number of pro­
ceedings concluded, the reduction in the number of pend­
ing cases is much less than the diminution in the number
filed.

  A t'rearages.-Delays in, the disposition of cases.-There
has been a marked reduction in the arrears of civil cases
as disclosed by the tabular statement submitted by the At­
torney General. It is thus shown that on June 30, 1939,
65.3% of civil cases had been pending six months or over,
as against 67% in 1938; 45.6% had been pending one year
or over, as against 50.2% in 1938; 25.1% for two years or
over, as against 32% in 1938; 17.3% for three years or over,
as against 22% in 1938; 12.1% for four years or over, as
against 169'0 in 1938; and 9.4% had been pending five years
or over, as against 13% a year ago.
  1Ve pointed out last year in considering the tabular state­
ment submitted that to obtain a true picture of the state of
judicial work it was necessary to 'consider the reasons why
cases had been pending for a considerable time and not
simply the number set forth. There are many reasons for
the pendency of cases which do not involve inordinate de­
lays. Thus, as we said last year, cases may be held to await
a decision in some other jurisdiction, which would make a
trial unnecessary or affect the rights involved, or to await
the result of negotiations for settlement; foroolosure suits
may be suspended by moratorium or redemption statutes;
the litigation may be ancillary to that in another jurisdic­
tion or there may be an injunction restraining proceedings;
or cas·es may be held awaiting appeals.
   It can not be too often emphasized that judicial statistics
require analysis and knowledge of the circumstances to
                             4
which they relate, and while they may in a general sense
be of value to sho\v a trend, they often afford an inadequate
basis for a just conclusion. When the present report was
received, several of the Senior Circuit Judges made in­
quiries to ascertain the actual reasons for the delays which
were shown. The result was to indicate that in many cases
the delays were justified. There is, however, as pointed
out, a gratifying reduction in arrears and this has been due
to the efforts of the judges to expedite the disposition of
cases. Last year, we pointed out that one remedy which
had proved effective in many jurisdictions was to have the
entire docket called at reasonable intervals so that the
"dead wood" may be removed and the eases that are ex­
pected to be tried may be brought to a speedy determina­
tion. This practice, as recommended, has been followed in
a number of districts.
    The Attorney General observes that except in a few con­
gested centers the court dockets are "in excellent condition
and generally current, the waiting time for trials being
 caused by the intervals between terms of court". "\\llile
 it appears, as the Attorney General states, that 18 out of
 85 districts-as against 17 a year ago-report more or
 less congestion in their dockets, a comparison of the con­
 ditions in the two years indicates that the extent of the
 congestion and arrears has considerably diminished; that
 only in the District of Columbia, the Southern District of
 New York and the Western District of Washington have
 the arrears increased.
    In the District of Columbia, it is hoped that the recent
 increase in the number of judges will result in at least an
 amelioration of the great delays there existing. But this
 may not prove to be a ·complete cure in view of the fact
 that the number of civil cases filed during the year was
  5,601 as against 5,045 during the preceding year. On the
  other hand, there has been a diminution in the number of
  criminal cases filed.
                               5

   In the Southern District of New York the arrears appear
to be again accumulating.      In the Western District of
\Vashington there has been a considerable incr'Elase in the
arrears in jury cases and some increase as to non-jury
cases.
   The Attorney General reports that in the Northern Dis­
trict of Georgia, the Western District of Louisiana, the
Eastern District of Michigan and the Northern District of
Ohio, while there is still congestion, that reported a year
or two ago appears to have been considerably alleviated.
   The Attorney General also states that the following dis­
tricts which showed arrears a year ago now report that
the dockets are current:
Northern District of Alabama   Eastern District of Pennsylvania
Eastern District of Illinois   Middle District of Pennsylvania
Eastern District of Kentucky   Northern District of Texas.
District of Massachusetts
  It is believed that in the District of Massachusetts an
important factor in clearing up the congestion has been the
adoption of pre-trial procedure for all jury cases.
  It appears that in the following districts where the
dockets were reported to be current a year ago there is
now congestion to a greater or less degree:
Eastern District of Arkansas    District of New Jersey
Northern District of California Middle District of Tennessee
Northern District of Illinois   Eastern District of \Vashington.
Western District of Kentucky
  The Attorney General adds that in the Eastern District
of Arkansas, the Northern District of California and the
FJastern District of 'Washington, this state of affairs is due
to temporary conditions.
  The statement and tables submitted by the Attorney
General were supplemented by full reports by the Senior
Circuit Judges from each circuit as to the condition of the
dockets in the several districts.
                             6

  Circuit Cou'rts of Appeals.-We are able to report, as
heretofore, that in general the Circuit Courts of Appeals
are up with their work. We called attention last year to
the accumulation of cases in the Sixth Circuit. Progress
has been made in the disposition of these cases and the
Conferen~e believes that with the present force of circuit
judges the Circuit Court of Appeals will be able in the near
future to make its docket fairly current.
  We also pointed out last year that the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit had been able to keep
abreast of its work only through the aid of retired judges.
After a careful review of the situation there, the Confer­
ence decided to recommend one additional circuit judge for
thatcircuit.
  No other recommendations for additional circuit judges
are made at this time.
  The Conference renews its recommendation that Sec. 212
of Title 28 of the United States Code should be amended so
that, in a circuit where there are more than three circuit
judges, the majority of the circuit judges may be able to
provide for a court of more than three judges when in
their opinion unusual circumstances make such action ad­
visable.

  District CO~trts.-A.dditional judges req1'ired.-The Con­
ference carefully considered the reports submitted by the
Attorney General and also the intimate description of con­
ditions furnished by the circuit judges.
  In the Southern District of New York additional judges
are clearly required.    The Conference recommends that
the vacancy caused by the appointment of .Judge Robert P.
Patterson to the Circuit Court of Appeals should be filled,
and that the present restriction should be removed. (See
Act 'of May 31, 1938, sec. 4(d) ; 52 Stat. 584.) The filling
of this vacancy, however, will not afford all the judicial
assistance that is needed and the Conference recommends
that provision should be made for two additional judges,
                             7
that is, in addition to the filling of the vacancy above men­
tioned. This recommendation is made with the qualifica­
tion that it be provided that the first three 'Vacancies oc­
curring in the district court in that district shall not be
filled.
    The Conference also recommends that provision be made
for an additional district judge in the following districts:
    1 additional district judge for the District of New
      Jersey;
    1 additional district judge for the Eastern District of
      Pennsylvania;
    1 additional district judge for the Northern District
      of Georgia;
    1 additional district judge for the Northern District of
      Ohio;
    1 additional district judge for the Eastern District of
      Missouri;
    1 additional district judge for the Southern District of
      California;
    1 additional district judge for the Western District of
      Oklahoma.

  Court rules.-In vieW' of the changes necessitated in the
rules of courts by reason of the adoption of the Rules of
Civil Procedure, the Conference last year appointed a com­
mittee to review the rules of the Circuit Courts of Appeals
for the purpose of making recommendations in order to
obtain uniformity so far as might be found practicable.
This committee was composed of Circuit Judges Parker,
Hicks, Wilbur and Phillips.
   At the present session of the Conference, Judge Parker
submitted two rules which had been drafted in coopera­
tion with a committee of the Department of Justice~ of
which Hon.•Tames "\V. Morris W'as chairman. These rules
concern the review by the Circuit Courts of Appeals (a)
of orders of the Board of Tax Appeals and of the United
States Processing Tax Board of Review, and (b) of orders
of other administrative bodies. The Conference recom­
                             8

mends to the Beveral Circuit Courts of Appeals the adop­
tion of these rules, as thus submitted, in the form in which
they are proposed.

   District OOU1't rules.-At the last Conference a com­
mittee was appointed, composed of District Judge John C.
Knox of the Southern District of New York, District Judge
William P. James of the Southern District of California,
and District Judge Robert C. Baltzell of the Southern Dis­
trict 'of Indiana, to examine the various rules of the Dis­
trict Courts and to make recommendations so that the
greatest practicable degree of uniformity throughout the
country should be secured. This committee was assisted
during the year by Major Edgar B. Tolman and by repre­
sentatives of the Department of Justice. A tentative draft
of uniform local rules was prepared and presented to the
members of the Conference.
   The Conference continues this committee for another
year to the end that the above-mentioned report and Isuch
further suggestions as may be made should be considered.
   Bourndaries of judicial circuits amd districts.-At the
Conference held in 1937 a committee was appointed to con­
sider possible changes in the boundaries of existing cir­
cuits and districts and to confer with the appropriate com­
mittee of the Senate and House of Representatives with
relation to this matter. The Conference continues this com­
mittee which, as now constituted, consists of Judges
]'oster, Wilbur, Phillips and Learned Hand.

  The adrninistration of the United States courts.-For
some time measures have been under consideration looking
to the establishment of an administrative office of the
"United States courts. One objective was to give to the
courts the power of managing their 0\VJ1 business affairs
and to that extent to relieve the Department of Justice of
responsibility. Another objective was to s,ecure an im­
                             9

proved supervision of the work of the courts thrDugh an
organiza tion under judicial controL lUter full discussion
of these objectives the CDnference at its last session ap­
pointed a committee to prepare recommendations in -col­
laboration with the Attorney GeneraL         This committee
was compDsed of Chief .Justice Groner of the United States
Com1; of Appeals for the District Df Columbia, and Cir­
cuit Judges Manton, Parker, EJvans and Stone. The re­
sult of the collabDration ·of this committee ,vith the com­
mittee appointed by the Attorney General and with rep­
resentatives of bar associations has been the promotion
and ultimate adoption of legislation to attain the desired
ends. The Act, which adds a new chapter (Chap. XV) to
the Judicial Code entitled "The AdministratiDn Df the
United States Courts", was passed by the CDngress and
,vas approved by the President Dn August 7, 1939, to' take
effect ninety days thereafter.
   A large part Df the present RessiDn Df the Conference has
been taken up with a discussion of the prDvisiDns Df this
Act and of the necessary steps fully to achieve the pur­
poses in view. The Act provides for the appointment by
the Supreme CDurt Df the United States Df a Director and
an Assistant DirectDr Df the Administrative Office. While
these appDintments are to be made by the Supreme Court,
the Act provides that the Director shall have charge Df the
matters specified "under the supervision and direction of
the conference Df senior circuit judges' '.    The DirectDr
is charged with duties Df the highest impDrtance and it was
deemed nDt Dnly fitting but necessary that the Conferen{le
Df Senior Circuit Judges, in Drder to exercise the intended
supervision over his activities, should be represented by a
committee which shall be in immediate tDuch with the Di­
rector and be in a position to' keep the CDnference fully in­
formed. For this purpDse the CDnference has appointed
an Advisory Committee to advise and assist the DirectDr
in the exercise Df his duties until further Drder Df the Con­
                             10 

ference. The committee is composed of the Chief J ustico
of the United States, as chairman, Chief Justice Groner
of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia, and Circuit Judges Parker, Stone and Biggs.
  The Act provides (sec. 306) that, to the end that the
work of the district courts shall be effectively and expe­
ditiously transacted, it shall be the duty of the senior cir­
cuit judge of each circuit to call at least twice a year a
council composed of the circuit judges for the circuit at
which the senior circuit judge shall preside. The senior
judge is directed to submit to the council the quarterly re­
ports which the director is required to submit (sec. 304(2»
in relation to the state of the dockets of the various courts,
their needs of assistance, the preparation of statistical data
and information as to the business transacted. It is made
the duty of district juages promptly to carry out the di­
rections of the council as to the administration of the busi­
ness of their courts. The Conference considered the duty
of the circuit judges under this provision and the respon­
sibility of the council, convened and informed as stated,
for the appropriate expediting of the work of the district
courts.
  In addition to these councils composed of the circuit
judges in each circuit, the Act provides (sec. 307) that a
conference shall be held annually in each judicial circuit
which shan be composed of circuit and district judges in
such circuit, who reside within the continental United
States, ·with participation of members of the bar under
TIlles to be prescribed by the Circuit Courts of Appeals.
These conferences are stated to be for the purposes of
considering the state of the business of the courts and of
advising ways and means of improving the administration
of justice within the circuits.
  The Conference considered these provisions and several
of the circuit judges described at length the character of
the proceedings of conferences which had been held in their
                            11 

circuits, including the sort of questions presented, the ar­
rangement of programs and incidental matters. The
profitable results of these conferences in a number of cir­
cuits were emphasized.
   It is confidently expected that through the operation of
this Act the important objectives to which reference has
been made will be measurably attained.

  Sentences in criminal cases.-The Conference appointed
a committee composed of Judges Learned Hand, Evans
and Wilbur to consider and report upon the feasibility of
an indeterminate sentence law for the federal courts; also
with respect to the advisability of conferring upon the Cir­
cuit Courts of Appeals the power to increase or .reduce
sentences.

  Rules of practice and pr'oceJdu,re in criminal cases.-The
Supreme Court, on NIay 7, 1934, pursuant to the Act of
March 8, 1934, promulgated Rules of Practice and Pro­
cedure, after plea of guilty, verdict or finding of guilt, in
Criminal Cases brought in the District Courts of the United
States and in the Supreme Court of the District of Co­
lumbia. The Conference requests the Supreme Court to
consider amendments of these rules so as to conform the
practice relating to records on appeal in criminal cases to
the practice provided for by the Rules of Civil Procedure.
The Conference also requests the Supreme Court to con­
sider an extension of the Criminal Appeals Rules (within
the authority conferred by the Congress) to appeals from
courts to which the rules do not presently apply.
   The Conference approved Senate Bill No. 1283, 76th
Congress, 1st Session, which provides for the conferring
upon the Supreme Court of the power to promUlgate rules
of pleading, practice and procedure with respect to any or
all proceedings prior to and including verdict, or finding
of guilty or not guilty by a court if a jury has been waived,
or plea of guilty, in criminal cases in the various courts
specified.
                             12
  Rules of evidence in crim'inal cases in the federal courts_
-The Conference: appointed a committee composed of
Judges Phillips, Hicks and "WIlbur to study and report
on the advisability of legislation with respect to the rules
of evidence, and also the competency and privilege of wit­
nesses, in criminal cases in the courts of the United States.

  Provision for law cledcs.--The Conference directs that
the Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, upon his appointment, prepare as soon as
practicable for the consideration of the Conference pro­
posals with respect to the salaries of law clerks of district
judges and circuit judges with a view to a recommendation
of such legislation as may be found advisable.

   Court reporters.-The subject of compensation of court
reporters was referred to the ph-ector of the Administra­
tive Office of the United States Courts to the end that as
soon as practicable after his appointment he should pre­
pare recommendations for the consideration of the Con­
ference.

  Public defenders.-Upon considering its former recom­
mendation upon this subject, the Conference approved in
substance S. 1845 and H. R. 4782, 76th Congress, 1st Ses­
sion, with respect to the appointment of public defenders.

  Recess.-In view of the fact that action may be required
by the Conference in connection with the operation of the
Act creating the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, the Conference, instead of adjourning, declared a
recess subject to the call of the Chief Justice.
  For the Judicial Conference:
                                   CHARLES   E. HUGHES,
                                             Chief Justice.
  September 30, 1939.
