                            APPENDIX

           REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
  A special session of the Judicial Conference of senior circuit judges
was convened on January 22, 1940, and continued in session for 2
days. The following judges were present in response to the call of
the Chief Justice:
      Second Circuit, Sellior Circuit Judge Learned Hand. 

      Third Circuit, Senior Circuit .Judge John Biggs, Jr. 

      Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker, 

      Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Rufus E, Foster. 

      Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit .Judge Xenopholl Hicks. 

      Sevcnth Circuit, Senior Circuit .Judg-e Evan A. Evans. 

      Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge> Kimbrough Stonc, 

      Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Curtis D. Wilbur. 

      District of Columbia, Chie>f Justice D. Lawrence Groner. 

     The senior circuit judge for the Tenth Circuit, Judge Robert E.
I...cwis, was unable to attend Ul1d his place was taken by Circuit
J ndge Orie L. Phillips.
     The meeting was called to consiu('r questions arising in relation to
the work of tIll' Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States courts. The Dir0ctor, Henry P. Chandler, the Assistant
Din'etor, Elmore Whitehurst, and the Chief of the Division of Pro­
eedural Studies and Stutistics, Will Shafroth, were present and
pt'esented to the Conference a comprehensive review of what had
::tlready been dOllr, in the organization of the Administrative Office
and the particular matters dem:mding attention. The Conferen('.e
passed the following resolutions:
     'With respect to estimates-Resolued, That the ,Judicial Conferenee
hereby approves and ratifies tIll' a,ction of the advisory committee
and the Director of the Administmtive Office 'in reference to the
estimates for the appropriations for the United Stat,es Courts (except
the Supreme Court), and for the Administrative Offiee for the fiscal
year 1941, and authorizes the Director to take such means as he may
deem advisable of explaining and justifying the estimates and pro­
curing the enactment of appropriations as nearly as may be in eOll­
~~~~~~~.                                                           .
   "With respect to deficiency appropriation8-Resolved, That the Con­
ference uuthorizes the Director to present estimates for deficiency
appropriutions for the accounts miscellaneous salaries and miscel­
laneous expenses of the United States courts, for the fiscal year
                                                                       139
                                         140 

 1940, in such total amount, not more than $150,000, as may be nec­
essary to add to those funds amounts equal to the amounts esti­
mated to be necessary for the use of the Administrative Office for the
fiscal year 1940, and authorized by House Resolution No. 50, 76th
Congress, to be transferred to the Administrative Office for that
purpose.
   Resolved, That the Director, in formulating this deficiency estimate,
consult with the Chief Justice and Chief ,Justice Groner, and secure
their cooperation and approval of the estimate as finally arrive~l at.
   With respect to the 8upervi8ion oj the finances oj clerks and other
officers oj the court.s--Resolved, That the Conference is of the opinion
that the supervision of the finances of the clerks and other officers
of the courts is within the function of the Administrative Office,
but that for the time being, due to the fact that appropriations are
not adequate to provide for that purpose, it is the desire of the Con­
ference that the field examinations shall be conducted by the Depart­
ment of Justice as heretofore, and that the Director be rcquested
to notify the Department of Justice to that effect, and also to request
that the reports of its examinations be communicated to the Director.
   With respect to stenographer-law clerks and law clerk.s-Resolved,
That the Director is directed not to authorize the payment of the
salary of any stenographer-law clerk until further ordpr of this
Conference.
   Resolved, That the Director is directed not to authorize the pay­
ment of any salary of a la>,,- clerk for any district judge, pursuant to
the fourth proviso of the item of the appropriation for miscellaneous
salaries, United States Courts, for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1940, until the further order of this Conference.
   Re80lved, That the Director is directed by this Conference not to
pay any increased compensation on account of the appointment of a
stenographer-law clerk by a circuit judge who also has a secretary.
   Re80lved, That the Conference approves the following provision for
the appropriation bill for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1941, and re­
quests the Director to submit it for the consideration of the Congress:
                MISCELLANEOUS SALARIES, UNITED STATES COURTS

   Miscellaneous salaries: For salaries of all officials and employees of the Federal
judiciary, not otherwise specifically provided for, $888,540: Provided, That the
maximum salary paid to any secretary or law clerk to any circuit or district judge
shall not exceed $2,500 per annum: Provided further, That this limitation shall not
operate to reduce the compensation of any secretary llOW employed: Provided
further, That a law clerk shall not be appointed by a district judge unless the senior
circuit judge of the circuit (the District of Columbia being considered a circuit) in
which the district where the clerk is needed, is situated, shall certify to the neces­
sity of the appointment.
  With respect to the rehabilitation oj the court room oj the United State8
Di8trict Oourt jor the Virgin Island8.-Resolved, That the Director is
                                   141 


 authorized to find, if it can be found, a sum not to exceed $7,500, for
 the rehabilitation and furnishing of the court room of the District
 Court for the Virgin Islands in Charlotte Amalie, the capital of the
 Virgin Islands.
    With respect to referees in bankruptcy.-Reso[-ved, That it is the sense
 of the Conference that it is charged with the responsibility of super­
 vising the administration of the Bankruptcy Act by all officers of the
 bankruptcy courts, including the referees in bankruptcy; and that it
 should require full reports of such officers, including referees, so that
all matters necessary to a proper supervision of their activities or which
 would throw light upon any needed changes in the Bankruptcy Act
 may be fully disclosed; and that all information which the Attorney
 General may have power to request of such officers for making reports
to Congress pursuant to section 53 of the Bankruptcy Act should be
included in said reports so as to obviate needless duplication of effort
 in acquiring such information j
    And to the end that such reports may be made so as to furnish to
 the Attorney General promptly the information desired by him from
such referees and other officers, it is ordered that the Director promptly
 address questionnaires to them covering such matters as may be nec­
 essary to present a complete report of the administration of the Bank­
 ruptcy Act, including such matters as the Attorney General is required
 to report on under section 53 of that Act; that before mailing such
 questionnaires the Director submit a proposed draft thereof to the
 Attorney General with request that he indicate any additional matter
 as to which he desires information; that the Director include in the
 questionnaires sent to the referee and other officers of the bankruptcy
courts any inquiries which the Attorney General may suggest; and
 that the Attorney General be accorded access to the replies received
to the questionnaires and be furnished copies of the statistics com­
 piled therefrom in the Administrative Office.
    With respect to probation ojJicers.-Resolved, That it is the opinion
of the Judicial Conference that section 304 (1) of chapter XV of the
Judicial Code and section 6 of the act entitled" An Act to provide
for the administration of the United States courts, and for other
purposes," approved August 7,1939 (Public Act 299, 76th Congress),
embraces probation officers, and that therefore the Administrative
Officer is charged with responsibility for supervision of probation
officers. The Conference, therefore, directs that the Director of the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts undertake his duties
with regard to the administration of the probation system as soon as
practicable.
   The Conference further instructs the Director to undertake the
duties cast upon him by the act creating the Administrative Office
in a spirit of full cooperation with the Attorney General and the
                                  142 


Director of the Bureau of Prisons of the Department of Justice; and
that the Director invite the suggestions of the Attorney General and
the Director of the Bureau of Prisons with reference to the adminis­
tration of probation in order that there be continued progress in that
administration.
   The Conference further directs that the appropriations requested
for the probation system for the fiscal year 1941 already submitted
by the Department of Justice be adopted by the Judicial Conference
as the budget of the probation system for thc fiscal year 1941, and
instructs the Director of the Administrative Office to request the
Congress to include the appropriations therein contained in the appro­
priations for the courts and Administrative Office for the fiscal year
1941.
   Reports jrom district j11,dges and clerks.-The Conference authorized
the Chief of the Division of Procedural Studies and Statistics, under
the supervision of tlw Director, to inquire of all district judges as to
the number of cases, motions or other matters, held under advisement
more than 30 and less than 60 days; and as to the titles, the date of
submission and other explanatory matter in cases where decisions
(i.ncluding decisions on motions) have heen held under advisement
for more than 60 days. The Conference also authorized similar
inquiries to the clerks of the district courts as to the titles of civil
cases which have been at issue for more than 6 months, with the
date on which the original pleading was filed and the date when the
case was at issue; and titles of criminal cases pending more than 6
months after the return of the indictment or the filing of the infor­
mation, with the date of the indictment or information.
   Additional judges jor the Circuit Court of Appeals jor the Eighth
Circnit.-At the session of the Judicial Conference in September
19::\8, the Conference noted that the Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit had been able to keep abreast of its work only through the
aid of retired judges and recommended provision for two additional
circuit judges for that circuit. At the session in September 1939,
the Conference decided to recommend but one additional circuit
judge. On a review, however, of the situation in that circuit,
the Conference at its present session thought it desirable to renew
its original recommendation that two additional circuit judges be
provided.
   The Conferenee adjourned subject to the caB of the Chief Justice.
   For the Judicial Conference:
                                          CHARLES   E.   HUGHES,
                                                         Ohiej Justice.
  JANUARY   31, 1940.

                                   o

