      REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
                        SEPTEMBER SESSION, 1941


  The Judicial Conference, pursuant to the Act of Congress of Sep­
temher 14, 1922, us amended (U. S. Code, title 28, see. 218), convened
on September 23, 1941, and continued in session four days. The
following judges were present in response to the call of the Chief
Justice:
      First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Calvert Magruder. 

      Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Learned H amI. 

      Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge ,John Biggs, Jr. 

      Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker. 

      Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Rufus E. Foster. 

      Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Xenopholl Hicks. 

      Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans. 

      Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone. 

      Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Curtis D. "Vilbur. 

      Tenth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips. 

      District of Columbia, Chief JUl'Itice D. Lawrence Groner. 

  Judge Parker wa·s unahle to attend the spssion on the opening day
and his place was taken by Circuit Judge Morris A. Soper. Judge
Parker and Judge 'Wilhur were unable to attend on the fourth day.
   The Attorney General, with his aides, was prcspnt at the opening
of the Conference. Mr. Alexander Hohzoff of tho Department of
Justiee was invited to a later session to pres!:'nt the Department's
views on some questions of criminal law administration.
   The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, Henry P. Chandl!:'r, the Assistant Dirpctor, Elmore White­
hurst, the Chipf of the Division of Procedural St,udies and Statistics,
'Will Shafroth, and other memhers of the staff of the Administrative
Office were in attendance.
  By invitation of the Conference, Rppresentative Hatton W. Sum­
ners, Chairman of the Judiciary Committee of the House of Repre­
sentatives, and Representatives Francis E. WalLer and Estes Kefauver,
memb('l's of the Committe(', attended part of the session so that there
could be an interchange of views by representatives of the judicial
and legislative branches of the government on pending or prospective
legislation affecting the 'work of the courts. Senator Frederick Van
Nuys, Chairman of the. Senate Judiciary Committee, wns also invited
but was unable to attend. The Conference found discussion with
members of the Congress to be informative and lwlpful, and decided
to continue the prnctice.
                                      (1)
                                      :2 


    The Attorney Gelwral addressed the Conference with respect to
 various matters of curreut. importance. He stated that the shift of
 duties relating to the administration of the courts from the Depart­
 ment of Justice to the Administratiye Office had worked out most
 satisfactorily. He stressed the importullce of the probation system
 and urged that probation officers be appointt~d entirely on merit. He
 also discussed tlw probh'ms creat,ed by congested dockets and delays
 in the administration of justice, which have become especially serious
 in naturalization pl'oeeedings, and i:'mphasized the importance of
 filling promptly t'xisting yac~Lneies in the judiciary.
     The administration oj the United States courts-Report oj the Direc­
 tor.-The Director submitted to the Conference a comprehensive
 annual report reviewing the activities of tIl(', Administrative Office
 for the fiscal year ending .June 30, 1941, and presenting detailed
 statistical datu with respect to thl' work of the courts.
    The Administrative Office has now been in existence for nearly two
 years. The general outlines of its activities and its statistical investi­
 gations were set forth in the Conference's report last year. In
 addition to its regular studies, detailed in the Director's report, the
 Administrative Office completed two special procedural st,udies during
 the year-~one, of the nwthod of selecting jurors in the southern
 district of N ew York, and the other a survey of pretrial procedure in
 the F('deral courts. The Administrative Office bas also begun special
 studies of the calendar systems in the individual districts and is
 cooperating with other agencips in researches concerning the adminis­
 tration of the courts. The ConferPllce approved the Director's
 report, and ordered it released immediately for publication.
    State oj the dockets--Number oj ca.se.s begun, dir.;posed oj, and pending,
 in the Federal district cOl1rts.-The Director's annual report contains
 statistical comparisons of the state of the dockets of the Federal courts
for the fiscal year ended .Junc 30, 1941, with those of previous years.
Each Senior Circuit Judge also presented to the Conference reports
and comment,s on the statistics submitted by the Director with
respect to the work of the Federal courts in his circuit.
    The Director's report shows that the number of civil cases pending
in the district courts on June 30, 1941, remained at about the same
le'n·l as the prt'vious year's figure. There was, howuv(·r, a marked
increase in the numb('r of cast's commenced, notably Government
cases, as is indicated by the following schedule of civil cases in the
district courts (exclusive of the Canal Zone and the Virgin Islands):
Fiscal year:                                 Commenced   Terminated    Pending
    1938 ___ _                               33,409       38,155        35,872
    1939 ___,                                33,531       37,463       31,940
    1940 ___ _                               34,200       36,893       29,259
    1941. _                                  37,826       37,91,*      .29,171
    Thc'l't' has been a slight dt'dilH' in the llumbt'T of criminal cases
pt'nding, but bankruptcy east's continuE' to I'isp, tilt' number of pending
bnnkruptcy cast's in('1'('asing since last ypar from 54,494 to 56,506.
During ttw year speciul progress was mac\t' in reducing tlw number
of cases hdd undf'I' udyiSE'm('nt for long pt'riods of tillw after sub­
IIllSSlon. BetwPPIl th(' Administrat.iv(' Offiep's fil'st quartprly report
in March 1940 und August 1,1941, the num1wl' of cases UJl(lpl" adyist'­
m('l1 t for more than sixty days dt'diw'd from 298 to 169.
  Arrearage8-~Delay8 1:n     thl? d'i8po.'·n·tioll of   ca8I?s~-Add'i6()nal.iudges.'­
TIl(' Administrative OffiCl' has found that. in a eonsiclel'llble proportion
of districts of til(' '(}nit<-d Stn tps trial of rases can b(' hUll with reason­
abl" promptn('ss if tll(' pal'til's <1('s1n'. III n smitH lluml)('J" of metro­
politnn districts, howPvl'r, thPH' rPIlHlins serious congpstion dl'spih~
all (,tforts to l'p([m'p !lIT('ars. ,Vhih, this sitllntioll will 1)(' remt'died
in pnrt if Y!Lcant judgpships Hl'(, pl'omptly fillE'!l, tlll'\,(' arp some
districts ",chore additionnl judgps I1rE' ne(,pssary. La,st y('ur thc' OOI1­
f('n'nop rpcomIIH'ncil'd that. Ull ndditional district judgp be providl'd
for Hll' l'asteI'll district of ~Iissouri, and it also rpeOmml'lHj(,d that th0
prohibition against filling tlw first VUCUIll'y oecurring ill dl!' distriet of
l\Iassaehusetts l)('rppeulPd. Aftl'r gi\'ing consid<'l'ution to til(' report
of tbp Dirpctor, and til!' stat('nwnts of HlP sc'nior eircnit ju<igl:'s for
tllP Eighth and First Oircuits, the Oonfl:'l'pncp J'('('ommPllded tht·
passage of H. R. 137 and H. R. 259fl, whi('11 carry out those two
recommendations.
    With a further view to relieving eongestion of tIl<' dockets, the Con­
ference considerpd ways of promoting hl'er and more l'ffieil'nt use of
the practice of assigning district judges outside of their einmits. To
accomplish this end, it is necessary that information be available to
the Chief Justice, who makes the assignments, and to th(' senior judges
of the circuits and districts cone I:'med, indieating the district judges
who are available for such assignmmIts and the relative needs of the
distriets to which assignm!?nts are to be made. The Confer!?nce reeom­
mended that within thirty days, and thereafter from time to timE' on
the request of the Direetor, thE' senior eireuit judge in pach cireuit
inform the Director what judgl:'s in his eircuit are availubk for assign­
ments to districts in other circuits, the ehaructC'l' of work they arc able
to undnrtake and the length of time thpy are willing to d('Yotc to it.
The Conference also rpcommemi<'d that all requests for such assign­
ments be transmitted to the Dirl:'etor, whos(' office will aet as a cleuring
house for thE' information which willlw madp available by the Dircetor
t,o the judicia'! oIficE'rs ehargl'd \\lith the duty of elf('cting assignmpnts.
So far as possible, judges who are ayailablp for servic(, outside theie
cireuits will be assigned to the distriets where they are most needed.
                                      4

    Circuit courts (d appeal8.~The circuit courts of appeals have con­
 tinued to keep abreast of their dockets and no additional circuit judges
 are recommended at this time. The Conference approved the pro­
posal that the Director gather statisties of cases in the oircuit courts of
 appeals corresponding to those of eases in the district eourts; and
accordingly the Conference authorized the Director to procure and
report statistics of the time oonsumed in the disposition of cases in the
circuit courts of appeals and in the various stages of litigation in those
courts substantially as provided in Forms 1 and 2 attached to his
memorandum filed with the Confereno!:', such statistics to begin as of
July 1, 1941.
   The Conference resolved that legislation was desirable authorizing
the Chief Justice to assign circuit judges to tempmary duty ill circuits
other than tlwir own, the procedlll'P of assignment to conform to that
of existing l<'gislation r!:'latiug to the assignment of district judges to
districts outside their circuits.
   Judicial conjerences in the C'ircuits.--Durillg the Pl1st Y!:'Ul', pursuant
to the Administrative Office Act, judieial conferences have been held
in all the circuits and in the District of Columbia. Ordinarily these
conferences indllde t'xecutive meetings of the judges and puhlic
meetings which am also attended by representathT('s of the bar and
others. These judieial conferences have alrca.dy had a notiCl'able
effect in making both the judges I1nd the members of the bar more
keenly aware of the problems I1ffecting the administration of the
courts. The Conference is of the opinion that the district judges
should he more fully informed of matters ,vhieh are to come before
it from tim!:' to time so that such matters may become the subject
of discussion at the judicial conferences ill the circuits and the district
judgps may have opportunity to communicnte their views, eitlwr
through sllch eouferences or otherwise, to this Conference. It there­
forc instructed the Director, on approval of the Chief Justice, to com­
municate as early as possible to all district and circuit judges dl1ta
with rpspect to matters likely to come before this Conference, in which
they may be particularly interested.
   E'Stimate8.-~-As required by the AdministrMive Office Act, the
Director submitted to the Conference estimatc's of expenditun~s and
I1ppropriations necessary for the maintenance of the United Stl1tes
courts and the Administrative Offic(' for the fiscal year 194:3. TIl!'
Conference approved those estimates, with the followillg changos:
    L Tho Conference directed that the estinlate for" l\lisceIlanC'ous
salaries, United Stutes courts" be increased to proyide for one addi­
tionallaw clerk for the district judges in euch circuit, thus increusing
the maximum number of such law clerks in each circuit from threo
to four.
                                    o

   2. The Conference directed that the estimate for "Salaries of the
Administrative Office" be increast'd by $3,200 to provide for the em­
ployment of an a,dditional attorIwy in the Division of Procedural
St.udies llnd Statistics.
   3. The Conference was of the opinion that. in view of the nature
and responsibility of the duties of secretaries and law clerks t.o circuit
judges, salflries should be fixed by t.he Director of t.he Administ.rative
Office, as soon as funds are avails,ble, within a range of $2,300 per
annum minimum and $2,900 maximum for secretaries, and within a
range of $2,600 per annum minimum and $3,000 maximum for law
clerks, the amount of salary for both classes of employees to depend
upon length of service. The Conference accordingly instructed the
Director to add to the estimate of "1-1iscellaneous salaries, United
States courts" the sum of $23,000, the amount estimated to be neces­
sary for the purpose.
   4. The Conference also approved the suggestion of the Director
that the Administrative Office take over from the Department of. Jus­
tice the t.wo salaried court reporters on its rolls-one in the District of
Hawaii and the other in the District of Puerto Rico-and authorized
the Director to add the SlIm of $5,400 to the estimate of" ::YIiscellaneous
salaries, United States courts" for this purpose.
   Sala,ries.for law clerks.-In addition to the foregoing action, the Con­
ference recommended that the limitation with respec.t to the maximum
salary of law clerks contained in United States Code, title 28, sec. 222
 (a); be repealed; and that in those cases where a circuit judge desires
to continue the services of his law clerk beyond a period of four years,
the law clerk be paid a salary not exceeding $3,500 per annum. Assoc­
iate Justice Justin Miller of the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia discllssed this subject with the Conference, and
urged that the present scale of compensation of law clerks of circuit
judges should be substantially increased in order to put their remunera­
tion on a parity with that of legal assistants in some of the executive
departments and furnish an incentive to persons of good ability to con­
tinue in such positions for extended periods.                  .
   Promotional POl1~CY for judicial employees.-The Conference con­
sidered the matter of a promotiollal policy for judicial employees and
questions raised concerning the application of recent statutes [par­
ticularly the act making appropriations for the Departments of State,
Commerce, and Justice, and for the Federal Judiciary, for the fiscal
year 1942, approved June 28, 1941 (Public Act 135), the Second
 Deficiency Appropriation Act for 1941, approved July 3, 1941 (Public
Act 150), and an act amending the Classification Act of 1923, as
 amended, to provide for the promotion of employees therein specified,
 approved August 1, 1941 (Public Act 200»). The Conference was of
 the opinion that it is desirable and in the public interest that a plan of
                                        6

promotions for the employees of the courts be established correspond­
ing to that established for other employees under said Public Act 200.
  Accordingly, the Conference instructed the Director of the Ad­
ministrative Office:
   (a) To proceed to authorize promotion~ of judicial employees permitted by
the appropriation act for the courts for the fiscal ycar 1942, which provides funds
for within-grade promotions for judicial employees in the lower salary ranks for
3 years of serdce without intervening promotiol1, alld for judicial employees in
the higher salary ranks for 5 years of service without intervening promotion;
   (b) To formulate aud as soon as may be to put into operation a promotional
plan for the employees of the courts based upon within-grade promotions fof'
employees in the lower salary ranks for 18 months of service and for employees in
the higher salary ranks for 30 months of service, in both cases without intervening
promotions, corresponding in general with the pIau established by Public Act 200,
for the employees whom it embraces,
   The plan for the judicial employee;; may iuclude appropriate provisions for
rating efficiency and for making promotional increases ill salary dependcnt upon
the attainment of specified standards of efficiency as shown by such ratings,
The promotional plan for judicial employees authorized by subdivision (b) shall
be subject to the appro\'al, in behalf of the Copfereuce, of its advisory committee
and shall not be put into operation until so appro\-ed.
   J II ordcr to procure the funds requisite to put into operation a promotional
plan for the judicial cmployees of t.he nature cOlltemplated ill subdivision (b),
thc estimate of additiollal appropriaUOl's for the fiseal years 1942 and 1943 sub­
mitted by the Director for the consideration of the Couference was appro\-ed,
and the Director was authorized to seek from the Congrei\s such supplemental
or deficieuey appropriations a:; he may be advised are requisite for the fiscal
years 1942 and 1943 not ill esceBS of thc amounts sho\\ II ill the estimate sub­
mitted by the Director, which aggregate :i\111,324 for 1942 and $71,126 for 1943.
   The bill to limit the authority oj judges to s'it.~-~Tll(> Conference COIl­
sidc'red H. R. iS8, which would limit the authority of a circuit judge
to sit in the district court to cases where he does so at the request
or with the consent of the senior district judge, snd would limit the
authority of district judges and retired judges to sit in the circuit
courts of appeals to those cases in which, by reason of disability,
disqualification, or vacancy, a circuit court of appeals could not be
otherwise constituted.
   This bill has passed the House of Representatives and is now pend­
ing before the Judiciary Committee of the Senatf'. Senior Circuit
Judges Pnrker, Stone, and Biggs, Chid Justice Groner, and several
circuit judges, in testimony befor(, a subcommittee of the Senate
Committee, had prt~viously outlined certain objections to the bill.
The discussion at the Confen'nce stressed the fact that from time to
time tlll're arise in the dist.riet courts, cases in which it is in the public
interest tha~ a circuit judge sit in a district court and in which it is
inadvisablE' to require th(' senior district juug("s consent; that the
temporary II bsence or unavailability of a st'nior district judge might
make his consent impossible to secure in some urgent cases; that
placing in the hands of t.lw senior district judge an unqualified veto.
                                       7

of the assignment of a circuit judge to sit in a distriet eourt would
in some cast's not be in the public interpst and would be a sorious
departure from the policy of promoting a flexible and efficient system
for supm:vising the work of the federal courts which it was the purpose
of the Administrative Office Act to strpngthen.
   The Conference was of opinion that un adequate safe-guard against
improper exercise of the power would be afforded by a provision that
assignment of a circuit judge to sit as a district judge be made by the
judicial council of his eireuit. The Conference looked with disfavor
on any regular prnctice of circuit judges sitting in district courts or
district judges sitting in the circuit courts of appeals. It thought,
however, that no such l'Pgular praeticp has prevailed in any part of
the country and that occasional a,ppdlate work by district judges and
trial work by circuit judges is necessary to spcure the prompt and
appropriate disposition of the business of the courts and is beneficial
both to the judgps find tIlt' eourts in whieh they sit. It was also
pointed out that the enactment of H. R. 138 might make necessary
the creation of several new circuit judgeships, especially since the bill
would limit t,he eX('fcise of the power, under existing legislation, to
call on retired judges whose assistance has contributed substantially
to the maintenance of the present fortunate state of the dockets of
the circuit courts of appeals. The discussion concluded with a
resolution-
   That it is the sense of the Conference that passage of H. n. 138 is not in the
public interest, and the Conference approves statement" Oll the bill made by
members of the Conferellce before the subcommittce of the Senate Committee
OIl the Juriieiary.

These views wc-re communieuted to the members of the House Com­
mittee 011 the Judiciary who attended one of the sessions.
   Oourt reporlers.-At the October 1940 session of the Conference,
the subject of compensation of official court reporters was referred to
a committee consisting of Judges Parker, Hicks and Phillips to give
further consideration to a report which had been submitted by the
Director. The committee, after consultation with th€' Department
of Justice, submitted to the Conference a propos€'d bill, prepared
with the assistance of th€' Administrative Offic€' , which tlI(' Con­
ference approved with a miIlor modification. The bill as recom­
mended by the Conference would authorize eltch district court to
appoint one or more official comt reporters in the mann€'r provided
for the appointment of the clerks of those courts. The number of
reporters to be appointed is to be determined by the Conference,
which is also to fix the qualifications required of appointees. Other
provisions are that the offieial reporter is to record all proceedings
in criminal cas€'s had in open court and all proceedings in other cases
unless the parties specifically agree to the contrary. Each official

      414il28-41--2
                                        8


court reporter is to receive an annual salary of not more than $3,000,
to be fixed from time to time by the Conference. If the court and the
Conference are of the opinion that stenographic services should be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding, contracts may be
awarded for periods not to exceed three years. The official court
reporter may collect from parties, including the United States, such
fees for transcripts, and no other, as arc established by the court
subject to the approval of the Conference or as are established by a
contract which has been awarded as a result of competitive, bidding.
The fees for transcripts furnished to a judge for his personal use and
the fees for transcripts fllrnished in criminal or habeas corpus pro­
ceedings to persons allowed to proceed in forma pauperis are to be
paid by the United States. The reporter is to furnish such persons
with transcripts of proceedings concerning them without prepayment
of fees. An additional clerk's fee of $5 is to be taxed against all parties
other than the United States for the services of the official reporter.
   The Confl'renee believes that the present system of reporting in the
courts of the Unitc'cl States is infprior to that prevailing in most of the
states and that the enaciuH'nt of a eomprdlellsive bill substantially
likp that recommended is essential to the proper administrutioll of
justice in the fedNal courts.
   The creation oj spec1:lll CiY/1rts.-The Conferellce considered the report
of the committ('e consisting of Judges Biggs, Hand, and Phillips con­
cerning the creation of a special court to have exclusive jurisdiction
over railroad reorganizations. The Conference concurred in the com­
mittee's n'coIlull('ndation that at the present time no feasible plun for
such a court has b~)(,Il offered which would materially reduce the delay
incident to sueh reorganization proceedings.
   The C011ference also considered S. 928 \vhieh would establish a sepa­
rate circuit court of appeals composed of fin' pprmanent judges, with
exclusive jurisdiction over a.ppeals in patent cases. The following
rpsolution was adopted:
   That the Conferenee disappro'·cs S. 928 in it.s prcsent form. But" ithout
expressing any opinion at t.his timc as to t.he desirability of a special court of
patent. appeals, we dircct t.hat. a eommittee consisting of .Judge Biggs, chairman,
and J\ldge~ Hand, Hicks, Evans, and Phillips study the whole subject of a special
conrt of patent appeals and report. back to the Conference at its next meeting its
findings ami recommendatiolls ill the premises.
  Rules of drcu'it CiY/uts (d a.ppea.ls.-The Conference approved the
recommendation of its committee on uniform rules for the circuit
courts of appeals, consisting of Judgps Parker, Hicks, 'Wilbur, ilnd
Phillips, that the following rule be adoptt'd by the several circuit
eourts of appeals:
  V\(here, pending appeal, application is made to the court, or a circuit judge, for
any relid which might have been granted by the trial judge, SlIch application
                                           9


must show either that it is not practicable to apply to the trial judge for the relief
or that application has been made to him and denied, with the reasons given by him
for the deniaL vVith the applicaHoll shall be fil<)(l copie~ of sHch pnTts of the record
in the court below as are available; and timely notice of the application shall be
given the opposite party or his eounsel.
   Fedemlindeterminate sentence law.-At its October 1940 session
the Conference recommended passage of an indeterminate sentence
law for the Federal courts. In some circuits the judicial conferences
subsequently expressed opposition to the proposed bill. The Con­
ference therefore resolved:
  That in view of the objections made by several circuit conferences to the
indeterminate sentence bill approved by this Conference last year, it is the
sense of the Confercnce that a further study shollid he made of the indeterminate
sentelJce, l he objections of the district judges thereto, and the general fmbjeet of
punishment for crime, including the treatment of youthful offendcr~; and that
[0 that elld the Chief Justice appoint a eommittee of circuit and rli~trict judges
to study the matter fully and make report as soon as possible to the end that the
same Illay be considered by the variolls eircllit conferences and that the views of
sueh conferences, togrther with the report of the committee, may be considered
by this Conference at its next alluual meeting.
 The Committee appointed to study these questions consists of Judge
 Parker, rhairman, Judges Hand and Phillips, and District Judges
 CaTroll C. Hindes, John C. Collet, Paul J. McCormick and Bolitha
 J. Laws.
    Waiver oj indictment.-Judge Biggs placed before the Conference
 a resolution of the judicial conference of the Third Circuit recom­
 mending the passage of legislation which would authorize the filing
-of an infommtion by the United States Attorney in cases where a
 defendant wishes to plead guilty. Such a procedure would enable
 a defendant, who desires to plead guilty, to avoid the delays which
 sometimes occur when the impaneling of a grand jury to find an
 indictment is required. The Conference recommended that existing
 law or established procedure be so changed that a defendant may waive
 indictment and plead guilty to an information filed by a United States
 attorney in all cases except capital felonies.
    Probation officers and personnel ,:n clerks' offices.-\Yith respect to
 standards of qualifications of probation officers, the Conference reaf­
 firmed its position expressed in 1940" that in view of the responsibility
 and volume of their work, probation officers should be appointed solely
 on the basis of merit without regard to political considerations; and
 that training, experience, and traits of character approprin,te to the
 specialized work of a probation officer should in OH'ry instance be
 deemed essential qualifications." The Conference further authorized
 the Chief ,Justice to appoint 11 committee of seven members, four circuit
judges and three district judges, to consult with the Director and report
:to a future meeting of the Conference whether it "rill be advisable for
                                           10

the Conference to supplement its general statement of principle by
recommending to the district courts definite qualifications to be
required of persons considered for appointment as probation officers
and, if so, what those qualifications should be.
   The Director submitted a report on the question of bringing the
personnel of derks' offices, except the clerks, under a merit system and
the Conference referred this question for further study to the same
cOIIlmittee which is to consider the standards of qualifictltions of
probation officers.
   The committee dcsignated to study the lust mentioned subjects
consists of Judge Magruder, chairman, Judge Stone, Circuit Judges
Augustus N. Hand und Samuel H. Sibley, and District ,Judges Wil­
liam C. Coleman, F. Ryan Duffy, and Adolphus F. St. Sure.
   Abolition oj 8iatu.tory divi8ion8 of judicial di8trict8 and (~funnecessary
terms oj court.--In the interests of economy and dispatch in the admin­
istration of justice and of the eonvenience of the litigants, the Confer­
ence at its October 1940 session resolved thl1t all statutory divisions
of judicil11 districts should be abolished. It recommended gcmeral
legislation authorizing the adjournment of a term of court whpnever
there was insufficient busilH'sS to justify the holding of the term, and
authorizing the judge to transf!:'r peuding cases to other pIllet's within
the district where court could be lleld. Judge Pl1rker submitted a bill
covering this subject as a substitute for S. 1054, which is now pending.
The ConferPllee suggested certain ehanges in Judge Parker's proposed
bill and with those ehangl:'s recommended its passage. The recom­
mended bill provides:
  SEC. 1. That upon a finding by the judicial council of a circuit that the public
copvenience does not require the holding of a stated term of court. at a place within
the circuit debignated by law for that purpose, and that the amount of business
there pending does not. warrant the holding of snch term of court, the council may
direct that such term be not held; and the district judges shall thereupoll be
absolved of the duty of holding ~uch term of court at sHch place and shall transfer
any cases there pending to some other place within the district COIlYellient to the
parties.
  Sl'('. 2. That all statutory division~ of judicial district,; be, and they hereby
are abolished, and the judge holding the courts of a judicial district may transfer a
case from Olle place of holding court to another upon a finding by him that the
cOllveniellce of the parties or the cuds of justice 80 require.
  J11dicial approval oj accounts.-On this subject the Conference
adopted the following resolution:
    That the Judicial Conference renews itB endorsemeut of the bill introduced
upon its rncolllll1endatioll and llen\' pending in the House of RepresentatiYes
 (S. 1051), which is designed to relieve the judges of the district courts of burden­
;;oll1e administrative detail in cOllllecrioll with the alOcounts for fees of j llrors and
\'iitnesses and to permit". such accounts to be certi/ied by the clerks of court ill the
casc of jllrors and by the United States attorneys or their assistants in the case of
witnesses. In thh; connectioll the Conferenee approves, either by \Yay of amend­
                                        11 

mcnt to the pending bill or by scparate act, al' amendmellt of the present statu­
tory provision with referencc to allowance of expenses of ,;ubsistence to witnesses
incurred in attending court 'or hearings before United Stat.es commissioners away
from their homes, RO that their right to allowance may he certified to by the United
States attorney, assistant United StateR attorney, or the commissioner, in lieu· of
the certificate by order of the court or the commissioner HOW required.
   Further resolved, Hlat t.he Conference recommends that the statute proyiding
for the payment of the expCllse account.s of United St.ates attorneys and assistant
'United States attorneys (U. S. Code, title 28, sec .•'l92) be amended so that such
accounts lIlay be approvcd for payment by the United Statcs attol'Jlcy.
    (}ompen8af1:on of attorne1J8.-In past ycal'S the Conference has
recommended that provision be made for the appointmpnt of public
defenders in di\stricts where there is a large volume of criminal busi­
nC'ss. Such legislation however has not yet been enactC'd, and the
Confcl'f'nee therefore considered the probkm of compcI)sating attor­
neys appointC'd by the court to represent indigent pprsons in C'riminal
eases and in habeas corpus proccC'dings wIl('rc no provision is made
for a publiC' defpndpr. Thc Confe'rcncp r('commendpd IC'gislation
making possible suell eompensation, thp kgislation to contain appro­
priate limitation of the maximum amount of compensation and to
provi<ip that the award, if any, of compensation within the maximum
-shall be ill the discretion of tIl(' judg(' before whom the ease or pro­
(~e'eding is tripd.  Four members of the' Conference wisIwd their dis­
sent noted, b('li('ving it to be thl' duty of tlH' members of the bal' to
repre'sent indigent persons without compl'llsation .
  . Jury selection.-The Confc'rence' diseussed the need of improV('­
ment in methods of jury sdection in United Statl's courts and
authorized the appointment by the Chief Justice of a committee of
five district judges to investigate the subj('ct. The committee desig­
nated consists of Distriet Judge John C. Knox, chairman, and District
Judges Harry E. Watkins, Waltl'r C. Lindley, Colin Neblett, and
James ~f. Proctor. The Conference requests that the subject be
discussed in the judicial conferencps of the several circuits. It also
authorized the Administrative Office to make 0, study of the jury
system in the federal courts with sppcial referenc0 to the selection
of jurors and economy of opl:'ration.
    Civil di8abiUties legislalion.--A resolution of the judicial conferenee
of the Tenth Circuit urged this Conferenee to recommend appro­
priate legislation to frel:' from civil disabilities a probationer who has
been found by the court to have met the conditions of his probation.
The Conference authorized appointment by the Chief ,Justice of a
committee to study this subject and report o,t t,he next meeting.
The committee appointed consists of ,Judge Phillips, chairman, and
~Tu(lges Biggs and Wilbur.
                                    12 


   Oases decided by'inferior courts in conflict with a later deci8ion of the
Supreme Oourt.-At its January 1941 session, the Conference appointed
a committee consisting of Judges Parker, Hand, and Phillips to con­
sider legislation with respect to the review on rehearing within a
limited time of cases decided by inferior courts in conflict with a later
decision of the Supreme Court. The committee reported that in its
judgment such legislation was not necessary or desirable and the
Conference approved the report.
   Oompensation oj Un"ited States commissioners.--There is now pending
a bill to change the compensation of United States commissioners
(H. R. 3751), The Conference requested the Administrative Office
to make a study of the commissioner system and report to the next
annual meeting of the Conference. It recommended that pending
such report no legislation affecting the compensation of commissioners
be adopted.
   Appeals in admiralty.-Last year the Conference appointed a com­
mittee composed of Judges Hand, Magruder, Parker, Foster, and
Chief Justice Groner to consider the advisability of extending to
appeals in n,dmiralty suits tIle practice obtaining in appeals in other
civil actions. The committee rendered a report recommending the
abolition of admiralty rule 45 which permits further proof to be
taken by leave of a circuit court of appeals or the Supreme Court on
an appeal in admiralty. The committee recommended that admiralty
appeals should no longer be treated as a new trial, and that in this
respect they should be assimilated to appeals in other civil cases.
The Conference approved the report.
   Specially constituted st4tutory courls.-The Conference authorized
appointment by the Chief Justice of a committee to report at its
next meeting on the advisability of amending various statutes relating
to the district courts of trree judges, ond also the special court of
circuit judges under the Expediting Act (U. S. Code, title 15, sec. 28
and U. S. Code, title 49, sec. 44), so as to provide a uniform method
of assembling such courts. The committee designated for the purpose
consists of Judge Evans, chairman, and Judges Stone and Phillips.
   Olerks' jees.-Last year the Conference considered proposals for
the adoption of flat-fee systems in the district and circuit courts.
At that time the Conference made no recommendation concerning
such proposals. The Conferenee again considered the subject and
authorized the Chief Justice to appoint a committee to study it
further and report to the Conference. The committee appointed
consists of Judge Biggs, chairman, ,Judges Foster and Evans, and
Chief ,Justice Groner.
   Reimbursement oj judges jor expenses oj travel and subsistence.-The
statute relating to reimbursement of travel and subsistence expenses
of judges incurred in the performance of duty away from their official
                                    13 


places of residence (Sec. 259 of the Judicial Code, as amended, U. S.
Code, title 28, sec. 374), provides that such expenses shall "be paid
by the marshal of the district in which such court is held or official
business transacted." In many instances this provision works an
inconvenience which could be avoided if tbe marshal of the judge's
home district were also authorized to make payment. The Con­
ference therefore recommended that Section 259 of the Judicial Code
be amended by eliminating the words "by the marshal of the district
in which such court is held or official business transacted."
   Pending bills disappl'oved.- The Conference disapproved bills in­
troduced in the Congress to divide the Ninth Circuit into two circuits
(S. 1793 and H. R. .1489), and a bill providing that jurors in the district
courts of the United States shall be drawn from the state jury lists
(H. R. :31). It also disapproved a proposed bill to authorize the
President to designate the judge of the district court of the Virgin
Islands to discharge the duties of judge of the district court for
Puerto Rico, and vice v(',rsa.
   Bills appl'oved.-The Conference recommended the passage of
H. R. 5203, extending the power of the Supreme Court to make rules
for criminal procedure so as to include expressly the regulation of
proceedings to plmish for criminal contempt of court. It also approved
H. R. 4807, exempting the states and their agencies from the payment
of certain district court fees.
   The Conference renewed its action with respect to certain legisla­
tion urged at last year's session. Accordingly it recommended the
passage of S. 1052, authorizing payment of subsistence expenses of
not more thall $10 per day to judges of thc Court of Claims; and
S. 1050, relating to the status of retired judges. With respect to
H. R. 146, relating to the removal of judges by a method alternative
to impea,chment, the Conference repeated its recommendation of last
year that "assuming its constitutionality, as to which we express
no opinion, we are in accord with the general purpose and approve
in principle the provisions embodied" in the bilL
   The Conference renewed its recommendation that appropriate
action be taken to securc a new court building in the District of
Columbia.
   Last year the Conference recommended that the time periods for
all appeals to the circuit courts of appeals be made uniform and not
to exceed thirty days. The Conferonee instructed the Director to
discuss this recommendation with the Attorney General whh a view
to securing legislation to carry out the recommendation.
                                  14

  Selection of pena.linstitutions.-Public Act 112, approved June
14, 1941, provides that convicted persons shall be committed to the
custody of the Attorney General or his authorized representative,
who shall designate the place of confinement where the sentences of
such persons shall be served. This statute eliminates the power of
the court to determine the type of institution to which the prisoner is
to be committed. It has been found that under this Act the selection
of the place of commitment has in some instances been delegated to
the United States attorneys or marshals. The Conferenee appointed
a committee consisting of Judges Parker and Phillips to confer with
the Attorney General, who is now drawing up regulations governing
places of commitment.
   Certijicate in constitutional cases.-The Conference approved a form
of certificate suggested by the Acting Solicitor General for use by
district judges under the Act of August 24, 1937, in cases in which
the constitutionality of a federal act is questioned and the United
States is not a party.
   Adt'isory cornrnittee.-The Conference continued the committee,
consisting of the Chief .Tustice, Judges Biggs, Parker and Stone and
Chief Justice Groner, to advise and assist the Director in the exercise
of his duties.
   The Conference declared a recess, subject to the call of the Chief
.Tustice.
   For the Judicial Conference,
                                            HARLAN    F. STONE,
                                                       Chief JU8tice.
  OCTOBER   6, 1941.
