For release on Tuesday, January 28, 1941.

      REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
             SPECIAL SESSION, JANUARY,   1941.


   A special session of the Judicial Conference of Senior
Circuit Judges was convened on 'January 21, 1941, and con­
tinued in session for two days. The following judges were
present in response to the call of the Chief Justice:
  Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Learned Hand.
  Third Circuit, ,senior Circuit Judge John Biggs, Jr.
  Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker.
  Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Rufus E. Foster.
  Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Xenophon Hicks.
  Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge, Evan A. Evans.
  Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone.
  Tenth Circuit, Senior ,Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips.
  District of Columbia, Chief Justice D. Lawrence Groner.
  The Senior Circuit Judges for the First and .Ninth Cir­
cuits, Judges Calvert Magruder and Curtis D. Wilbur, were
unable to attend and their places were taken respectively by
Circuit Judges John C. Mahoney and William Denman. The
Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, the Assistant Director and members of their staff
were present.

  Report of the Attorney General's Committee on Bank­
ruptoy Administration.~The meeting was called primarily
to consider, 'at the request of the Attorney General, the
report by a committee appointed by the Attorney General on
the administration of the Bankruptcy Act. Assistant At­
torney General, Francis M. Shea, chairman, and Charles A.
Horsky, director, of that committee, were present with mem­
bers of the committee's staff at the opening of the session.
Mr. Shea explained the committee's proposals. The Con­
ference also heard Mr. B. Loring Young, the president of
                              2


the National Association of Referees in Bankruptcy, in
relation to the committee's recommendations.
   Copies of the committee's report had previously been dis­
tributed to the members of the ;Conference and they pro­
ceeded to the consideration of its recommendations as set
forth in Part III of the report, pages 117-120. These recom­
mendations appear in full in the appendix to the present
report.
   The Conference approved without modification the recom­
mendations made by the committee with respect to the
creation of a Division of Bankruptcy in the Administrative
Office, as follows:
       I. There should be set up, in the Administrative
    Office of the United States Courts, a Division of Bank­
    ruptcy, headed by a Chief, to be appointed by the Di­
    rector of the Administrative Office.
          A. The Division, in addition to the Chief, should in­
       clude a staff of assistants adequate to enable the Chief
       and the Director to carry out the functions listed be­
       low. It should also include a few expert, highly quali­
       fied attorneys who can assist in special problems of
       research and investigation.
       II. The Division of Bankruptcy, and the Chief, should
    assist the Director in carrying out the following func­
    tions:
          A. The ,periodic and frequent 'e;x:amination 'and
       audit of the affairs of the referees and other bank­
       ruptcy officials.
          B. The collection of bankruptcy statistics in such
       form as will best reflect the actual conditions of bank­
       ruptcy and bankruptcy administration throughout
       the United States.
          C. The immediate and continuing investigation of
       the rules and practices of bankruptcy administration,
       with the object -of discovering the most satisfactory
       rules of procedure under the various conditions which
       exist throughout the United States.
          D. The receipt and investigation of complaints and
       suggestions with respect to bankruptcy administra­
       tion and bankruptcy officials.
                             3

   The Conference resolved that the statement of the func­
tion described in recommendation II E of the committee's
summary should be modified so as to read as follows:
        II. E. The recomending to the Conference of Senior
     Circuit Judges changes in the Bankruptcy Act, changes
     in the general orders and official forms, and changes
     in local bankruptcy rules, practice and procedure; and
     the recommending to the Circuit Council of a Circuit
     any changes with respect to local rules, particular prac­
     tices and procedures in any court or before any referee
     in bankruptcy in that iCircuit.
  With respect to the committee's recommendations II F,
III B, III Bland 2, and III C 2 and 3, relating to the inaugu­
ration and maintenance of a system of full time salaried
referees in bankruptcy, the Conference adopted the follow­
ing resolution:
      Resolved, That it is the sense of the Conference that
    the fee system for the pay of referees in bankruptcy
    should be abolished and a system of full time referees
    at :fixed salaries, as recommended by the Attorney Gen­
    eral's committee, should ,be adopted for the country
    at large in so far .as such ,system may be justified by
    local conditions; further, that a nation wide survey
    should be conducted by the Director of the Adminis­
    trative Office with view of determining whether or not
    such system is practicable in all districts and areas
    of the country and if not, to what extent it should be
    supplemented by part time referees on a sah~ry basis;
    and further, that both with respect to full time referees
    and with respect to such part time salaried referees as
    may be found necessary, the Conference should be au­
    thorized, upon the recommendation of the Director, to
    determine the number of referees, the territory over
    which each shall exercise jurisdiction, the salaries they
    shall receive, and any changes which may be made 'with
    respect to these matters:
       Now, therefore, with respect to recommendations
    II F, III B, III Bland 2, and III C 2 and 3 of the report
    of the Attorney General's committee, the Conference
    makes the following recommendations:
                             4


         1. That theJegislation to be enacted authorize this
      Conference to determine whether part time salaried
      referees are necessary in any district or area of the
      country in lieu of the full time referees proposed in
      the report;
         2. That the Director be authorized by such legisla­
      tion to conduct a nation wide survey with a view of
      determining the number of full time Isalaried referees
      and, if the appointment of part time salaried referees
      is recommended, the number of such part time sal­
      aried referees, together with the territory to be
      served by each in either case, and the salaries to be
      paid them, and to report the result of his findings to
      this Conference and to the various Circuit Councils
      of the circuits for which such referees are to be ap­
      pointed, and such Councils shall make recommenda­
      tions to this Conference with regard thereto;
         3. That this Conference be vested with authority
      to determine, in the light of the recommendations of
      the Director and of the Circuit Councils, the exact
      number of referees to be appointed, the territory over
      which they shall exercise jurisdiction, the salaries
      they shall receive, and any changes which may be
      made thereafter as to their respective numbers, terri­
      tories or salaries;
         4. That the transfers provided in III B 2 of the
      committee's report should be by direction of the Cir­
      cuit Council for such periods as it may designate.
  With respect to the appointment of referees, the Confer­
ence resolved that the proposal in recommendation III A of
the committee's report should be modified so as to read as
follows:
       III. A. The power of selection and appointment of
    referees is to remain in the district judges. Section 34
    should be clarified, however, to make it clear that in dis­
    tricts with more than one judge (including judges ap­
    pointed for more than one district), or in situations in
    which the territorial jurisdiction of the referee extends
    over more than one judicial district, appointments shall
    be by joint action of a majority of such judges, or by
    the Circuit Council in case no such majority exists.
                              5


   The Conference approved the committee's recommenda­
tion III D that referees shall be appointed for a term of six
years. The Conference resolved, however, that the pro­
posals contained in recommendations III D land 2, relating
to the removal and reappointment of referees, should be
modified so as to read as follows:
        III. D.l. Removal of a referee during the term for
     which he is appointed shall be only for incompetency,
     misconduct, inefficiency, or neglect of duty. Incompe­
     tency, misconduct, ineffi,ciency, or neglect of duty by a
     referee coming to the knowledge of the Director shall
     be reported by him to the district judge or judges of
     the district or area for which, such referee is appointed
     and to the Circuit Council. A referee may be removed
     for anyone or more of the above mentioned causes by
     the district judge or judges of the district or area for
     which he was appointed. Wben a report of incompe­
     tency, misconduct, inefficiency, or neglect of duty by a
     referee is made to such judge or judges and he or they
     fail to remove such referee, the ,Circuit Council, if it
     deems proper, may remove him from office for anyone
     or more of the above mentioned causes.
        Before any order of removal shall be entered, a speci­
     fication of the charges shall be furnished to the referee
     and he shall be given reasonable notice of the time and
     place fixed for the hearing thereof and shall be accorded
     an opportunity to be heard on the charges.
        III. D. 2. Not later than 90 days beforeihe end of the
     term of each referee, the Director shall report in writing
     to the judge or judges of the district or area for which
     the referee was appointed, recommending his reappoint­
     ment or recommending against reappointment because
     of incompetency, misconduct, inefficiency, or neglect of
     duty on the part of the referee. In the event the Di­
     rector shall recommend against reeappointment, the
     referee shall not be reappointed without the approval
     of the Circuit Council.
  The Conference resolved that the proposal contained in
the committee's recommendation III C 4 with respect to the
retirement of referees should be modified so as to read as
follows:
                             6


      III. C. 4. In case of incapacity or at the age of seventy
    after ten years of service as a referee, the referee may
    retire or be retired by the judge or judges of the dis­
    trict or area for which he was appointed and receive
    annually thereafter during his life an amount equal to
    one-half of his salary in the year immediately preced­
    ing his retirement. Such benefits are to be paid by the
    United States.
  The Conference adopted the following resolution in re­
gard to aged referees.
       Resolved, That the Conference recommends to the
     committee that it consider the advisability of making
     some provision for aged referees of long service who
     may be displaced as a result of the passage of the act.
   The committee's recommendations III C 1 and III E, re­
lating to the salaries and expenses of referees, were ap­
proved without modification. These recommendations are
as follows:
       III. C. 1. The salaries shall be paid by the United
    States from funds derived from charges against bank­
    rupt estates,collected by the clerks of ;the district
    courts and paid into the United States Treasury, the
    system remaining self-supporting as it is today.
       III. E. The expenses of each referee's office are to be
    paid by the United States, but from funds derived from
    charges against bankrupt estates, collected by the clerks
    of the district courts, and paid into the United States
    Treasury, the system remaining self-supporting as it
    is today. Such expenses are to be under the supervision
    of the Director and the Chief.
  In connection with its proposal that salaries and expenses
of referees be paid from a fund derived from charges
against bankrupt estates (III C 1 and III E, above), the re­
port, at pages 153 to 155, contains estimates of the probable
future amounts of such charges. In arriving at such esti··
mates, the committee included the sum of $200,000 as the
approximate amount of charges arising because of the ap­
pointment of referees to act as special masters in proceed­
                            7

ings under Ohapters IX, X and XII of the Bankruptcy Act.
With respect to this item, the Oonference adopted the fol­
lowing resolution:
      Resolved, That it is the sense of the Oonference that
    the allowances amounting to $200,000 mentioned as
    special masters' fees in the recapitulation on page 155
    of the committee's report should no longer be made;
    that the deficiency so resulting should be met by an
    addition of about two-thirds to the present amount of
    the "Graduated Fixed Oharge on Asset Oases"; and
    that when a referee is appointed as special master under
    Ohapters IX, X or XII no allowance shall be made to
    him as special master.
  Estimates.-The Director submitted to the Oonference an
estimate of the appropriation necessary for the establish­
ment and maintenance of a Division of Bankruptcy in
the Administrative Office for the fiscal year 1942. The
estimate was based upon the committee's proposals regard­
ing the functions and size of such a division, and contem­
plates a total appropriation of $39,193.31 to provide for the
salaries 'of a chief, assistant chief, two other attorneys, a
secretary and two stenographers ; the addition to the Di­
vision of Procedural Studies and Statistics of a senior clerk
and two statistical clerks; traveling expenses, and other
miscellaneous expenses. The Conference approved this es­
timate.
   With respect to examiners necessary to conduct the in­
vestigations contemplated by the committee's recommenda­
tions, the Conference adopted the following resolution:
       Resolved, That the Conference directs the Director
    to cooperate with the Attorney General and use his
    best efforts to secure in the appropriation for exami­
    ners for the Department of Justice for the fiscal year
    1942 a force sufficient to supply competent examiners
    for the examination of the bankruptcy offices of the
    district 'courts under the supervision of the Adminis­
    trative Office in accordance with recommendation II A
                             8

    of the Attorney General's Committee on Bankruptcy
    Administration (pages 127 and 128 of the report of the
    committee). This action is without prejudice to such
    action as the Conference may hereafter deem advisable
    to provide for a corps of examiners under the Adminis­
    trative Office of the United States Courts at any time
    in the future.
   At its October (1940) session and in connection with its
consideration of estimates submitted by the Director for the
fiscal year 1942, the Conference approved certain provisos
in the proposed form for that portion of the 1942 appropria­
tion act dealing with "Miscellaneous Salaries, United States
Courts". It has now resolved that the first of those pro­
visos, appearing on page 10 of the report of the October ses­
sion, should be amended by striking out the words "circuit
and" in the second line so that, as amended, it shall read ,as
follows:
      Provided, That the compensation of secretaries and
    law clerks of district judges shall be fixed by the Di­
    rector of the Administrative Office of the United States
    Courts in accordance with the compensation schedules
    of the Classification Act of 1923 (as amended), judges'
    secretaries being elassified in the senior clerical grade
    and law elerks in the principal subprofessional grade.
   Proposed Legislation.-The Director submitted to the
Conference drafts of bills prepared in accordance with the
recommendations of the Conference at its October (1940)
session. These drafts were approved, with certain modi­
fications, and the Director was instructed to support such
bills before the Congress. In. addition, Ithe' Conference
recommended the enactment of a bill "To amend section 531
of the Revised Statutes, as amended, to divide Kentucky
into two judicial districts ", proposed by Judge Hicks in
order to carry out a plan adopted at a conference of dis­
trict judges, clerks and United States attorneys of Ken­
                                         1


tucky for changing the time and places of holding district
courts in that state.
                             9


   The Oonference also recommended an amendment to sec­
tion 306 of the Judicial Oode to empower the circuit coun­
cils to subpoena witnesses and compel the production of
testimony. W"hen so amended,section 306 would read as
follows (new matter being in italics and matter omitted in
brackets):
       306. To the end that the work of the district courts
    shall be effectively and expeditiously transacted, it shall
    be the duty of the senior circuit judge of each circuit
    to call at such time and place as he shall designate, but
    at least twice in each year, a council composed of the
    circuit judges for such circuit, who are hereby desig­
    nated a council for that purpose, at which council the
    senior circuit judge shall preside. The .senior judge
    shall submit to the council the quarterly reports of the
    Director required to be filed by the provisions of sec­
    tion 304, clause (2) and upon the information so fur­
    nished and that gathe1'ed from other sources by the
    cowncil such action shall be taken [thereon] by the coun­
    cil as may be necessary to effectu(de th", purpOSP8 of this
    section. For such pu'rposes and for any other purpose
    within its cO'Yt1.petency, the council shall have the power
    to subpoena witnesses and to rl/,ake orders for the p'ro­
    duction of evidence before it, and it shall have the
    powers of a district C01.trt of the United States to punish
    disobedience of such orders and su,bpoenas. It shall be
    the duty of the district judges promptly to carry out
    the directions of the council as to the administration of
    the business of their respective courts. Nothing con­
    tained in this section shall affect the provisions of
    existing law relating to the assignment of district
    judges to serve outside of the districts for which they,
    respectively, were appointed.
   Courthouses in the District of Columbia.-At its October
(1940) session the Oonference adopted a resolution relating
to the erection of a new courthouse for the District Oourt
of the United States for the District of Oolumbia. The Oon­
ference has now resolved to rescind that resolution and has
instructed the Director to take such steps as may be prac­
ticable to accomplish the early erection of such a courthouse,
                             10 

subject to the approval of the Chief Justice of the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.

  Cases Decided by Inferior Courts in Conflict with a Later
Decision of the Supreme Court.-A committee consisting of
Judges Parker, I.learned Hand and Phillips was appointed
to consider legislation with respect to the review or rehear­
ing within a limited time of cases decided by inferior courts
in conflict with a later decision of the Supreme Court.

  Civil Se'rvice Status for Employees of Clerks' 0ffices.­
The Conference instructed the Director to investigate and
report at the next session on the advisability of bringing
deputy clerks and other persons employed in offices of clerks
under a civil service system.

  Instead of adjourning, the Conference declared a recess
subject to the call of the Chief Justice.
  For the Judicial Conference,
                                    OHARLES   E. HUGHES,
                                                Chief Justice.
  January 28, 1941.
                             11

                       APPENDIX.



  The recommendations made by the Attorney General's
committee, as stated in its summary at pages 117-120 of its
report, to which reference is made in the report of the Ju­
dicial Conference, are as follows:
  I. There should be set up, in the Administrative Office of
the United States Courts, a Division of Bankruptcy, headed
by a Chief, to be appointed by the Director of the :Adminis­
trative Office.
       A. The Division, in addition to the Chief, should in­
    clude a staff of assistants adequate to enable the Chief
     and the Director to carry out the functions listed below.
    It should also include a few expert, highly qualified
     attorneys who can assist in special problems of research
     and investigation.
  II. The Division of Bankruptcy, and 'the Chief, should
assist the Director in carrying out the following functions:
      A. 'rhe periodic and frequent examination and audit
    of the affairs of the referees and other bankruptcy
    officials.
      B. The collection of bankruptcy statistics in such
    form as will best reflect the actual conditions of bank­
    ruptcy and bankruptcy administration throughout the
    United States.
       C. The immediate and continuing investigation of the
    rules and practices of bankruptcy administration, with
    the object of discovering the most satisfactory rules of
    procedure under the yarious conditions which exist
    throughout the United States.
       D. The receipt and investigation of complaints and
    suggestions with respect to bankruptcy administration
    and bankruptcy officials.
       E. 'rhe recommending to ;Congress of changes in the
    Bankruptcy Act, to the Supreme Court of changes in the
    General Orders and Official forms, to the district courts
                              12 

    of changes in local bankruptcy rules and to any referee
    or other bankruptcy official of changes in practice and
    procedure. In connection with this function, the Di­
    rector should be empowered, if his recommendations as
    to changes in the local rules are not accepted by the dis­
    trict judges, or his recommendations as to practice and
    procedure are not accepted by the referee or other
    official or corrected by the district judges, to request, if
    he sees fit, that such recommendations be approved and
    made effective, or rejected, by the Oircuit Oourt Judicial
    Oouncil of that circuit.
       F. The inauguration and maintenance of a system of
    full-time salaried referees, and the supervision and
    maintenance of their offices.
  III. The system referred to in II F, supra, should be con­
stitutedand maintained as follows:
       A. The power of selection and appointment of ref­
    erees is to remain in the district judges. Section 34
    should be clarified, however, to make it clear that in
    districts with more than one judge, or in situations in
    which the territorial jurisdiction of the referee extends
    over more than one judicial district, appointments shall
    be by joint action of a majority of such judges (or by
    the senior district judge in case no majority exists) un­
    less the majority, by rule or standing order, shall other­
    wise provide.
       R. The number of referees is to be substantially re­
    duced, and each of them is to be put upon a full-time
    basis.
         1. The exact number of referees and the territory
       over which each shall exercise jurisdiction are to be
       determined by the Director after a careful study of
       conditions throughout the country as a whole, and of
       local conditions such as the area, the population, the
       transportation and communication facilities, the type
       and amount of bankruptcy work in prior years and
       where it is centered, the existing personnel and the
       over-all amount of funds available for salaries.
         2. The number of referees and their respective ter­
    ritories may be changed from time to time, and ref­
                             13 

      rees may be transferred from one area to another
      within the same judicial circuit, as changes in these
      conditions warrant, subject, however, to the limita­
      tions contained in III D, infra.
  C. Each referee is to be paid a stated salary in an amount
between the limits of $3,000 and $10,000 a year.
       1. The salaries ,shall be paid by the United States
    from funds derived from charges against bankrupt
    estates, collected by the clerks of the district courts and
    paid into the United States Treasury, the system re­
    maining self-supporting as it is today.
       2. The salary of each referee is to be determined by
    the Director upon consideration of, among other factors,
    the average number and the types of cases closed and
    pending and the average amount of gross assets rea­
    lized for the preceding five-year period in the territory
    over which the referee is to have jurisdiction.
       3. The salary of a referee may be changed as changes
    in conditions warrant, but a salary shall not be reduced
    during the tenure of any referee below that at which he
    was originally appointed, nor reduced during any term
    below that which it was at the beginning of that term,
    and shall not be changed more often than once every
    two years.
       4. In case of incapacity or at the age of seventy after
    ten years service as referee, the referee may retire and
     receive annually thereafter during his life an amount
     equal to one-half of his salary in the year immediately
    preceding his retirement. Such benefits are to be paid
    by the United States.
  D. The term for which referees are to be appointed is to
be six years.
       1. Removal of a referee during the term for which he
    is appointed shall be only for misconduct, inefficiency or
    neglect of duty. Removal is to be by the' district judge
    or judges who appointed him, upon the written recom­
    mendation of the' Director to the ,district judge or
    judges, or by such judge or judges upon his or their own
    initiative. Both the judges and the Director shall
    specify in writing the grounds upon which their action
                              14 


     is based. Either the referee, if a removal be decided
     upon by the judges, or the Director, in any case, may
     seek a review of the judges' action by the Circuit Court
     Judicial Council.
        2. The Director is to report in writing to the district
     judge or judges near the end of the term of each referee,
     recommending his reappointment or non-reappointment
     upon the three grounds mentioned above. In the event
     the recommendation is not accepted, the Director may
     seek a review of the recommendation by the Circuit
     Court Judicial Council, and in the event of failure of re­
     appointment the referee may likewise request a similar
     review.
   E. The expenses of each referee's office are to be paid by
the United States, but from funds derived from charges
against bankrupt estates, collected by the clerks of the dis­
trict courts, and paid into the United States Treasury, the
system remaining self-supporting as it is today. Such ex­
penses are to be under the supervision of the Director and
the Chief.
