                 REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
                           SEPTEMBER SESSION,     1942.

'4
            The Judicial Conference, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 218 1
          convened on September 29, 1942, and continued in session
          four days. The following judges were' present in response
          to the call of the Chief .Justice:
           First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Calyert Magruder.
           Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judg\} Learned Hand.
           Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John Biggs, Jr.
           Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker.
           Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Samuel H. Sibley.
           Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Xenophon Hicks.
           Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans.
           Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone.
           Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Curtis D. "\Vilbur.
           rrenth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips.
           District of Columbia, Chief ..Tustice D. Lawrence Groner.
     r
     Judge Sibley was unable to attend the session on the
          fourth day.
             The Attorney General, with his aides, was present at the
          opening of the Conference.
             l'he Director of the Administrative Office of the United
          States Conrts, Henry         Chandler, the Assistant Director,
          lDlmore "\Vhitehul'st, the Chief of the DhTision of Proced­
          :1rnl Studies and Statistics, \Vill Shafroth, and other mem­
          bers of the staff of the .Administrative Office WPl'C in at­
          tendance.
                  invitation of the Conference, Senator Frederick Val',
          Nuy:-:, (ihairman of tho Senate Judiciary Committee,          II
          ator .Joseph C. O'Mahoney, Chairman of one of its Suh­
          cODllnittees, and Representative Hatton 'V. Sumners, Chair­
          man         the Judiciary Committee of the House of Heprc
          st'lltnti "OS, attended part of the session so that f here conlil
          he an interchange of            upon pending and prosp('div(~
          legislation nffectillg the work of the eourts,
                              2

  By invitation of the Conference, District Judge Paul J.
McCormick attended part of the session, and discussed with
the Conference the subject of the representation of district
judges in circuit councils.
  Death of Judge Foster.-The Chief Justice announced
to the Conference the death of Senior Circuit Judge Rufus
E. Foster, of the Fifth Circuit, on August 23, 1942. The
Conference adopted the following minute:
       "The members of the Judicial Conference regret­
    fully record the absence of the late Rufus E. Foster
    who for eight successive years attended these meetings
    and contributed much to their deliberations.
       , 'Long and wide were his experiences. As U ni ted
    States District Attorney, as United States District
    Judge and as a Judge of the United States Circuit
    Court of Appeals, he gathered wisdom from his varied
    experiences. This Conference was the beneficiary of
    those experiences and wise counsel.
       "He loved the work of the judiciary and was justi­
    fiably proud of his participation in its activities. We,
    too, are proud of the part he played in its history.
    Judicial work was his master and he was its willing
    servant.
       , 'We will miss his wholesome advice, the wisdom of
    his ripe experience, his kindly genial personality and
    his optimistic, cheerful nature. We all unite in send­
    ing to Mrs. Foster our sympathy in the loss of her
    husband and our friend."
   Statement of the Attorney General.-The Attorney Gen­
eral addressed the Conference upon various matters of
current interest in the work of the courts. He empha­
sized the importance of filling judicial vacancies promptly
if the courts are to perform their duties with despatch i
he called attention to problems arising within the Depart­
ment of Justice as a result of its rapid growth during the
past three years; he stressed the desirability of the courts'
taking appropriate measures to expedite hearings and ap­
peals in cases where prompt decision is of immediate
concern to the conduct of the war; and he suggested the
                                3

need of continuing or adjourning certain types of cases
whose preparation and presentation would absorb too much
time of army, navy, or civilian personnel essential in war
work, or might disclose valuable information to the enemy.
   The Attorney General suggested that federal judges
might in appropriate cases undertake to render special
services in connection with the war, outside the scope of
their judicial duties and consistent with them. He stated
that in his opinion a judge who enters the armed forces
as an officer, and accepts the salary attached to the com­
miSSIon, must, under the provisions of 5 U. S. C. ~. 62, be
deemed automatically to surrender his judicial office; and he
urged that any federal judge inclinf'C1 to re:-.i!-,'Il in order to
undertake active military duty shouJdw{,igh the impor­
tance of his present work and consider carefully \vhether
he should abandon it.
   The Attorney General also referred to problems arising
out of the performanee of the functions of United States
commissioners, and the status of bailiffs in the federal
courtl'!. He urged the speedy adoption of the pending court
reporter biB, and el1dorsed the recommendations of the
report of the Conference's committee on punishment for
m'ime, and those of the committee on standarus of quali­
fications of probation officers. He suggested that the Con­
ferenee appoint committees to study the prevailing prac­
tice of imprisonment of defendants in eriminHI cnsf'S for
the failure to pay their fines, and tbe trentmrllt accorded
to insane defendaIlts charged with crime ill the federal
courts. He also stressed the importancE' of conducting pro­
ceedings in naturalizntion cases in a more dignified manner
thnn is generally the case n t. present, and urged tha t all
district courts should regularly entertain petiti0118 for
naturalization.
  The Administration of the United States COud8.-Re­
port of the Director.-The Director submitted to the Con­
ference his third annual report, reviewing the activities of
the Administratiye Office for the fiscHI YNU' ending .Tune
30, 1942, and prel'enting detailed stMistical data concerning'
                              4

the work of the federal courts. The Conference approved
the Director's report, and ordered it to be released im­
mediately for publication.
  State of the Dockets.-Nwrnber of Cases Beg'un, Disposed
of, and Pending, in the Distrt:ct Courts.-The Director's
annual report contains statistical comparisons of, the
state of the dockets of the federal courts for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1942, with those of previous years.
In addition, each senior circuit judge presented to the Con­
ference reports and comments on the statistics submitted
by the Director with respect to the work of the courts in
his circuit.
  As the following table indicates, the number of civil cases
pending in the district courts on June 30, 1942, (exclusive
of the Canal Zone and the Virgin Islands) remained at
about the same level as in each of the two preceding years:
Fiscal Year      Commenced         Terminated       Pending
    1939            33,531           37,463          31,9·10
    1940            34,200           36,893          29,259
    1941            37,826           37,914          29,171
    1942            37,419           37,664          28,926 '
  In the last half of the fiscal year 1942 nineteen hundred
less civil cases were filed than during the same period in
1941, despite the fact that there were a thousand more
land condemnation cases than in the comparable period for
1941. These condemnation cases are the most striking
single feature of the district court dockets at the present
time. The total number of such pending cases approaches
5,000, the total number of tracts involved 55,000, and the
total acreage 10% million.
   The war has caused a sharp increase in the number of
petitions for naturalization filed in the federal courts. The
number of pending bankruptcy cases has declined more
than five per cent. On the other hand, pending criminal
cases in the 84 districts in the states increased 22 per cent
to 10,659. The total number of criminal cases filed in these
same districts was 30,577, five per cent more than last
                             ::t

year, an increase caused largely by prosecutions for    VIO­
lation of the Selective Service Act.
   Delays in the Disposition of Cases.-Additional Judges.
-During the past year the Administrative Office has
acted as a clearing house for information with respect to
the availability of judges for assignments to districts in
which the dockets arc congested, and has cooperated with
the Chief Justice in securing the necessary consents for
the assignments made. Arrearages have been reduced
considerably, but in a small number of districts there re­
mains congestion which can be overcome only by the ap­
pointment of additional judges. After considering the
report of the Director, emd the statements of the respec­
tive senior circuit judges, the Conference recommended
that an additional district judge be provided for the Dis­
trict of New Jersey, and one for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, by legislation providing that in the case of
each office the first vacnncy occurring shall not be filled.
The Conference also recommended the passage of H. R.
4318, which would provide an additional district judge for
the Northern District of Alabama, and it renewed the rec­
ommendation it has made for the- last two years for the
passage of H. R. 137, to provide an additional district
judge for the Eastern District of Missouri.
   The Conference also recommended legislation to create
an additional circuit judgeship in the Fifth Circuit, and
it urged the passage of S. 412 to create an additional cir­
cuit judgeship in the Seventh Circuit.
  Salat"ies for Law Clerks, Secretaries, and other Personnel
of the Courts.--By invitation of the Conference, Associate
Justice Justin Miller of the United States Court of Ap­
peals for the District of Columbia discussed with the Con­
ference the level of salaries of law clerks and secretaries
to the district and circuit judges, and also of librarians in
the circuit courts of appeals. He urged that a complete
reclassification of sueh personnel be undertaken, with a
view to bringing their salaries more into harmony with
those prevailing in other branches of the government for
                              6
comparable types of service. After discussion of this
proposal, the Conference authorized the Chief Justice to
appoint a committee to make a survey, with the aid of the
Director, of the salary scale of law clerks, secretaries and
librarians, and also of probation officers, clerks' office em­
ployees and other supporting personnel of the federal
courts, and to that end, with the cooperation of the Di­
rector, to seek the aid and advice of the Civil Service Com­
mission, and to report its recommendations to the Con­
ference at its early convenience.. The committee appointed
consists of Judge Biggs, Chairman, Associate Justice
Miller, Circuit Judges Harvey M. Johnsen and Morris A.
Soper, and District Judges Wa)"1le G. Borah, John E.
Miller and J. F. T. O'Connor.
   Pending the completion of such a survey, the Confer­
ence authorized the Director to fix the annual salaries or
secretaries to district and circuit judges within a range
of $2300 to $2900, and of law clerks to district and circuit
judges within a range of $2600 to $3000, as soon as funds
are available, and to include in his budget estimates under
the item "Miscellaneous Salaries, United States Courts"
an amount sufficient to carry that policy into effect.
   Law Clerks to District Judlles.-Section 128 of 28
U. S. C. authorizes each United States district judge
to appoint a law clerk when he deems this to be necessary
and when the senior circuit judge shall certify to the neces­
sity of the appointment. The annual appropriation acts,
however, have limited to three the number of law clerks to
district judges who can be appointed within anyone cir­
cuit. This limitation has operated in many instances to
deprive district judges of the assistance which they need
in discharging their duties, and in the more congested
areas it is in part responsible for the difficulty ill clearing
the dockets. Accordingly, the Conference adopted the fol­
lowing resolution:
      That tlw senior circuit judges be requested to make
    immediate inquiry of all diRtrict judges in their .re­
    spective circuits.to ascertain which district judges deem
                              7

    the appointment of a law clerk to be necessary, and in
    appropriate cases 10 certify to the necessity of the ap­
    poillhnent, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. ~ 128; that the
    senior circuit judges shall forward such certifications
    to the Director of the AdmillistratiYe Office not later
    than October 12, 1D42; that the Director shall then be
    authorized to include in his budget estimate for the
    year 1944 an amount :,;ufficiollt to pay the salaries (Jf
    all IHw clerks thus certified.
The Conference also authorized the Chief Justice to ap­
point a committee of district judges to assist the Director
ill presenting to CongTc!':s the need for additional law
clerks. The committee appointed consists of District
Judge John C. Knox, Chairman, anti Di8trict Judges J.
Cullen Ganey, Johnson J. Hayes, Arthur D. Healey and
Frank L. Kloeb.
   Bu,dget Estimates.--As required by the Administrative
Office Act, the Director submitted to the Conference esti­
mates of expenditures and appropriations necessary for
the maintenance of the United States courts and the Ad­
ministrative Office for the fiscal year 1944, and a deficiency
estimate for clerks' salaries and expenses for the fiscal
year 1943. The Conference approved the estimates sub­
mitted, together with such additional amounts as may be re­
quired for 1944 for reclassifications and increases in salary
for secretaries and law clerks as authorized by the Confer­
ence, and for salaries of law clerks to district judges upon
compliance by the Director ,vith the resolution ftlready
quoted with respect to such law clerks.
   The Punishment for C1-ime.-At its October 1940 session
the Conference recommended the passage of an indeter­
minate sentence law for the federal courts. In view of
criticism of the bill at 8e\-e1'al circuit conferences, this
Conference last year appointed a committee of circuit
and district judges to make a further study of the indeter­
minate sentence and generally of the subject of punish­
ment for crime in the federal courts, including the treat­
ment of youthful offenders. The committee appointed
consisted of Judges Parker, Hand and Phillips, and Dis­
trict ,Judges Carroll C. Hincks, John C. Collet, Paul J.
r                               •





                                8
    McCormick and Bolitha J. Laws. After careful study,
    the committee submitted a report recommending certain
    fundamental· changes in the legislation governing federal
    punishment for crime. The more important recommenda­
    tions of the report are as follows:
            "(1) Retain in the trial judge full power to fix the
         length of all sentences and to admit to probation.
           "(2) 'Where the sentence, in the opinion of the judge,
         should be for more than one year, require that a sen­
         tence for the maximum teTm be initially imposed, with
         power in the judge to modify the sentence later.
            "(3) Provide a Board of Corrections with power
         to make recommendations to the judges as to sentence
         in cases v>'iwl'e sentence is for more than one year, but
         with power in the judge to fix the sentence notwith­
         standing the recommendation of the Board.
           " (4) Provide, in the case of offenders under 24 years
         of age, that the judge ill his discretion, ins,tead of im­
         posing an ordinary sentence of imprisonment on them,
         may commit them to the custody of the Youth Author­
         ity Division of the Board of Corrections for correc­
         tional t r e a t m e n t . _
            I' (5) Provide for the confinement in prison camps,
         farms, and other institutions of minimum or medium
         security, instead of in jails and prisons, of offenders
          on whom short terms of imprisonment are imposed.
            "(6) Pro,ride an adequate period of supHrvision
         under parole of not less than two years in all cases
         where the sentence is for more than one year.
            "(7) . Provide for waiver of indictment and jury
         trial, so that persons accused of crime may not be held
         in jail needlessly pending triaL"
    By invitation of the Conference District Judge Bolitha J.
    Laws, a member of the committee, was present and par­
    ticipated in the discussion of the committee's report. The
    Conference adopted the report presented by the commit­
    tee, and urged the passage of the bills proposed by the
    report. Judge Stone recorded his objection to Title 2
    of the proposed bill, relating to prison sentences for more
    than one year. The Conference continued the committee
    with instructions to render such assistance as it may deem
    advisable in securing passage of the proposed legislation.
   Pmbati,on Office~'s and J.l1erit System for PC1'sonncl im
Clerks Ofjices.--At the last session of the Conference the
subject      appropriate standards of qualifications of pro­
bation officers, and the advisability of bringing the per­
sonnel of clerks offices under a merit system, were referred
to a committee consisting of ,Judges Magruder, Sibley,
Stone, Circuit .Judge Augustus N. Hand, and District
.Judges F, Ryan Duffy, ,\ViIliam H. Kil'h::patrick HlHl Adol­
phus F. Sf. Sure. 'With respect to        standards of quali­
fieat50118 of probation officers, the Conference adopted the
following resolution proposed by the report of the com­
mittee:
         rrhat the Confer(·nee l'(':li'fil'm:> thr' l'Bso1utiori adopted
    at          meeting ill nctnbcr~ 10,}O,                    ille ",(mse
    of tllC' ConfereuC'P tlwt ill vjpw               the re3}.Hmsillili.ty
     and '\0111111e of their work, probation ofiirers 8hould
    be appointed solely on the basis of nwrit ,\~jthont 1'C­
    g'anl to poliiical cOllsioc1'atinns; and that training,
     eX[H'ricnce, and trnlts of clwractcr appl'opriaio to the
    i'peeiilIized work of a probation officer should in evcry
     instanec be dcemQcI C'sscldial qnaJiJieations.
         'I'llai the COl1ference recommends t.o the nn:iolls
    clii:dTiet courts that. in all future appointments of pro­
     hatioll officers the ::ppoint('c should he required to
     POSSt'SR the fol1o\\'i ng qualitica tions :
          (1) Exemplary character.
         (2) Good hcalth anll yigor.
          (3) An age Hi the time of appointment \vithin the
     runge of 24 to 45 years inclusiye.
         (4) .A libeml education of not 1('88 than col1egiate
     ~;rade, eYidcnce(l b\' a haclu)lor's dCg'l'ee (B,A. or
     B.S.) 'from a colle,ge of n~c:ogni7.ed !:It'unc1ing, or its
    ('qni\'alnllt.
          (;;'1 ]~xpericllcc in persnnnC'l work for the wplfare
     of others of not les" :hnll t"\\'O yl'Hl'S, or j,yO ~'0ars of
     'ilWcifie training {"li' w .. lrnl'C' \ycrk. (a) in n f:chool of
      t-:neinl s('rdc(' of l'l'coglliz('d stml(\inp.', 01' (11) in n
     lll'ofpssiollal Cfmr":'I~ or a eoiiC'g(' or lI11in'J'sity of
      l'C'cngniz('d sta1Hlillg,
          Thnt the Ccmf(,ll'1l(',\ l'1'('Ol1lDH:llds 10 the Y:tl'iOllS
     district courts 11wt Ldm'p rlj'p,)illjl1lC'nls of probation
     ofIiecl's ,,,honl(l bt, for n lJ1'obdi,mnl'Y nu'ioc! of
     llIollth;::,)   tIlt'   1Q 1llOJlll11H.'llt   10   b'c01llP l;L'l'illHlll'llt   at tlh~
r
    7
                                      eii




                                     10
            end of that period if the senrice IS deemed satisfac­
            tory by the court.
              That the Oonference calls the attention of the
            various district courts to the availability of the Ad­
            ministrative Office for the service of analyzing the
            qualifications of applicants for appointment with a
            view to determining whether such qualifications meas­
            ure up to the recommended standards, and for the
            servic(~ of conducting competitive examinations, if
            desired by the court.
          Concerning the advisability of bringing the personnel
        of clerks offices under a merit sY~ltem, a majority of the
        same committee reported that although they found no
        evidence of alnules ,vhich "'would render the proposal a
        matter of great urgency, they were in favor of bringing
        the personnel of the clerks offices, except the clerks them­
        selves and their chief deputies, within the classified civil
        service. A minority of the committee reported that in
        their opinion no change was necessary or desirable. The
        Conference adopted the minority report.
          (Jour't   Reporters.-Last yeHr the Conference urged en­
        actment of comprehensive legislation to provide for official
        court reporters in the federal conrts, recommended by a
        committee consisting of ;Judges Parker, Hicks and Phil­
        lips. As a result of criticisms l)y officials in the Bureau
        of the Budget and by representatives of court reporters
        and others, the committee recommended that the following
        changes be made ill the bill:
               "(1) Wllere the reporter      required to attend npon
            the court more than 30 ,voeles annually, the salary
            may, in the discretion of' the .J ndieial Conference, bo
            fixed in all amount not to rxceecl $5000.
               "(2) The proviRion for contract letting is elim­
            inated.
               "un   In panTleI' appeals in civil eases [unlike crim­
            inn I cases 1 tho cost of the transcript shall be paid by
            the "CJ1itefl States only when the trial judge certifieR
            thnt the appeal iB not frivolous but presents a snb­
            stautial question, and the amonnts so paid by the
            Uni1rd States are to be taxed in its favor as costs in
            the case.
                            11

      "(>1) Provision is made for the delivery to the
    clerk of the court, without charge, of a copy of any
    transcript made.
       " (5) 'rhe provision for taxing a reporter's fee of
    $5.00 in the bill of costs in each case, to be covered
    Into the Treasury of the United States, is eliminated."
The bill as redrafted to incorporate these chang-os has tho
approval of the Bureau of the Budget and its enactment
was recommended by the Conference.
  Specially Co'nst-iiuted Stahttory Cou'rts.-In accord­
ance with the report of the committee consisting of Judges
Evans, Stone and Phillips, the Conference recommended
that legislation be adopted to provi(le a uniform method
of assembling specially constituted district courts of three
judges, and that such legislation provide that the senior
circuit judge shall name the associates to sit with the dis·,
trict judge in such cases. The Conference requested the
committee to draft a bill, with the cooperation of the Direc­
tor, to carry out this recommendation, and to present the
bill to Congress as the bill approved by the Conference.
The Conference directed that Circuit Judge Albert B.
Maris be added to the committee.
  8pwial COuirt of Patent Appeals.-The Conference
adopted the report of the committee, consisting of J'udges
Biggs, Hand, Hicks, Evans and Phillips, recommending
that no action be taken at this time to establish a special
court of patent appealH. 'rhe Conference directed that
the committee be continued.
  Jury Selecrion.-Last year a committee of district judges,
cousisting of District Judges John C. Knox, Harry E.
"Watkins, -Walter C. Lindley, Colin Neblett and James
M. Proctor, was appointed to study the methods of jury
selection in the fed(:ral courts. 'The committee presented
to the Conference a comprehe1lsive report recommending
important changes in the mode of selecting juries, and
req uested that the report be distl'ibu ted to all federal
judges, clerks of court, jury commissioners, and other
                                   12 

Dersons interested in the ~ubject. Accordingly tlHc Con­
ference dil'ceted that the committee be coutinued~ ti!at
the report be circulated as requested, and tha t. suggestions
or criticisms cOllcCl'uiug it be invited for tmbmission to
the committee.
  Civil Disabilities Le.rrislation.-The Conference approved
the report of the commiitt'c, cOllsisting of .J udgcs Phillips,
Biggs and vVillml', recommending appropriate legislation
to free from civil disabilities probationers who have been
found by the couri to hm'8 met the condition of their pro­
bation, Hud the COlli'erClICe recommended enactment of
the bm proposed hy the committee.
   United Stutes Corruli'issioners.-LasL year the C:;onfor­
('nee rt'questcd the Achnillistrative Office to make n study
of the commissioner system .     and nmort
                                        "
                                              to the COlllrjrence.
~rhe Director presented his report, which considered i]~
detail ih<' opcmtioll of tho comrnbsioJl(.:r systcul through­
out the federal conds. 'rho C0l1f(~i'ellCc l:mtJlOrized tIw
Chief ,Tustice to r:ppoint a committee of distriet judges
to consider t11i'3 subject and, ,,,Hh the Hssjstan(',f~ of the'"",
Admirti.slT~l ii\'c Oilice, to make a l'Oport with rccommcl1Cla­
tiOllS to the next session    or the Conference. Tbe eormnit­
tee appointed consists of District Judge Carron C. Hhld~s:
Chairman, nnll nisLriet Juclg'cs\V, CalYln Chestnut, James
A. Fce, OmHWl' It 1\ordbye, ,John F, Symes and O(~org'l~
'Paylor,
   Public Dcj'elulr)"s,--Tu past yOafS the COnf(;relH~(~ has
l'eeommnndcd thai prodsion he md(k by appropriate
lation for tl1(; appointment of puhlie defenders iu distriets
wlwl'c 11]('1'e is a lal',:re yolnmo of c;riminal trinh" 'rhe tmb,
;jed ,\yns agnin COHsi!!PI'Nl, I:1ml the Conference Ul'gpll the
enaetmc'nt of n.H, GG:2R, which w(mirl au1horize            estah-
Eshmrmt of fluc:h a pnblie dC'fender i'yst\~m,             COll1er,
ell('(' n 1,:0 1'C'connnNH 1C'd 1ha 1. H.H. G628 be alnenrl!)d to

ill habra ~ «<)1'))11 cases ill whieh the pp( O1H'T is P(()l'(~cd,
ing' ill t"ormn p;;ujJPri:s. TIle' COllfel'l'liCP withc1rc\'\-its ret­
                             13 

ommendation of last year that, in districts where no public
defender system has been established, the trial court be
authorized by legislation to compensate, in a limited
amount, attorneys appointed to represent indigent de­
fendants.
   Clerks' Pees.-The committee, consisting of Judges
Biggs and Evans and Chief Justice Groner, which had
studied the proposal for the adoption of flat fee systems
in the district and circuit courts, reported that the present
system of fees is antiquated and unwieldy, resulting in a
waste of time, much unnecessary bookkeeping, and diffi­
culties in auditing. The committee recommended the en­
actment of a bill establishing a flat fee system in the dis­
trict courts. This report was adopted by the Conference
with a recommendation that the proposed bill be passed.
   The committee also recommended that a flat fee system
be adopted for the circuit courts of appeals, which are
now governed by the Order of the Supreme Court of
Mareh 15, 1941. With respect to such fees, the Confer­
ence adopted the following resolution:
        That it is the sense of the Conference that, if the
     Supreme Court will approve such a change, a bill be
     drawn to authorize the Judicial Conference, acting
     upon the recommendation of the Director, to fix fees
     in the circuit courts of appeals; and that the commit­
     tee be continued to sit with the Director for the. pur­
     pose of establishing a system of fees to be reported
     to the Conference in the event of the passage of such
     legislation.
   Practice of Law before Pederal Judges by Their Near
Relatives.-Fro·m time to time complaint has been made
of the fact that near relatives of federal judges have ap­
peared before them as counsel in pending cases. The Con­
ference recognized that in many instances this may have
involved no impropriety 011 the part of the judge or of
counsel. But in view of the desirability of eliminating
all possible occasion for criticism of the practice, the Con­
ference adopted the following resolutiou:
      That it is the sense of the Conference that federal
    judges should avoid sitting in cases in which their
                             14 

    near relatiyes are of counsel, as contrary to the spirit
    of Canon XIII of the Canons of Ethics of the Ameri­
    can Bar Association, and the Conference urges the
    circuit councils 10 inquire whether such a practice
    exists in their respective circuits, and if so to take
    appropriate action.
  Federal Judges as Arbitrators      /01'   the National War
Labo1' Board.-In response to an inquiry from the Execu­
tive SecretaI'Y of the National \Var Labor Board con­
cerning the Conference'8 attitude toward the acceptance
by federal judges of appointments as arbihators ill cases
pending before the Board, the Conference adopted the
following resolution:
        That the National 'Val' Labor Board be iuformed
     throw.dl the Dir(~ctor that it is the sense of the Con­
     ference that it would be incompatible with the obEga­
     tions of the judicial office for a Uni ted States judge
     to accept a position as arbitrator iu cases pending
     before the National 'War Labor Board.
   Unifonn 'Pime for Apl)(:als to Ci1'cuit Courts of Appeals.
-In past years the Conference has recommended legis­
lation to prescribe a uniform time, not exceeding 30 days,
for all appeals to circuit courts of. appeals, except where
a shorter time may be provided by law. The Director
reported that certain objections had been made to the
adoption of such a short time limitation for the revie,~
of administrative orders by circuit courts of appeals.
The Director accordingly presented for consideration a
b1ll restricted in its application to appeals to the circuit
courts of appeals from the district courts. rrhe Confer­
ence authorized the Chief ,Justice to appoint a committee
to consider the proposed bill \vith the Solicitor General,
and authorized the committee, if it found the text of the
bill to be satisfactory, to recommend its passage on behalf
of the Conference. The committee appointed consists of
Judge Stone, Chairman, Judges Sibley and Hicks Hud
 Chief Justice Groner.
  Limitatio1ls U1J01l- the Authority of Judges to Sit by As­
sig1l'lnentin the District Courts.-The report of the COIl­
                            Ii)

ference last year stated at length the reasons why, in the
opinion of the Conference, it was contrary to the public
inte.rest to place in the hands of the senior district judge
an unqualified veto upon the assignment of HIl outside
judge to sit in his district. Such a provision has bl'cn
inserted into S. 2655, now pending before. the Congress,
and the Conference accordingly adopted the following
resolution:
       That the Conference renews the statemellt made in
    its report last year ill opposition to placing in. the
    hands of the senior district judge an unqualified veto
    npon the assignment of an outside judge to his dis­
    trict; that it is the sense of the Conference that a
    wholly ackqnate safeguard against Ilw undue assign­
    ment of outside judges to sit in district courts would
    be afforded by legisla tion rt~quirillg the COllsent of
    the circuit council to the assignment ,,,henever an ob­
    jection is made by the senior district judge; that the
    Conference urges that S. 2G55 be amended accord­
    ingly i and that the Director be instructed to transmit
    immediately a copy of this resolution to the Chair­
    men of the .Tudiciary Committees of the Senate and
    House of Representatives.
   Naturalization Proceedings.-The Conference thought
it desirable that the dignity and importallce of admission
to United States citizenship through naturalization should
be stressed ill all naturalization proceedings. It there­
fore adopted the following resolution:
       That all federal judges be requested to aid in what­
    ever manner possible in carrying out the ,Joint Reso­
    lution of Congress of :May :1, 19-!-0, 54 Stat. 178, and
    in enhancing tlw digllity of nIl stages of the naturFdi­
    zation procee(1ing.
  Payment for Fltrnishinf} Copies of Op'lnions of Fed­
eral .Iudges.-The Conference adopted the follO\ving reso­
lution:
      That it is the sellse of the Conference that secre­
    buies and lEt'W clerks to judges, and other employees
    of the courts, should receive no compensation for
    furnishing copies of the opiuions of the judges to
    any perSOll.
                             16
   Unnecessary Printing of Briefs and Records.-In view
of the necessity of conserving materials for war purposes,
it is especially desirable that the printing of briefs and
records in eases on appeal be kept at a minimum. The
Conference therefore requested each senior circuit judge
to make an investigation in his circuit, with n view to the
adoption of rules or estftblishnwnt of praetices which will
eliminate all unnecessary priuting.
  Disbursal of Trust Punds by Clerks of CowL-Under
the present system ,vhen a clerk collects trust funds he is
required to deposit them ill a receipt account in the Treas­
ury, where they are beyond his control. Before he can make
disbursements from a trust fund to the persons entitled to
receive them, he must secure from the Treasury an ad­
vancement of the funds from the receipt account to a
checking account. This has given rise to a variety of ac­
count.ing and practical difficulties. After a study of t.he
subject the Director prepareu a bill which would provide
that any trust fuud money deposited by a clerk of court in
the Treasury shull be subject to his control and may be
disbursed by him in the same manner as money deposited
in a checking account. in a bank. The Conference approved
the bill prepared by the Director and recommended its
enactment.
  Appeals ,in Admiralty.-Last year the Conference recom­
mended that the Supreme Court abolish the provision in
the admiralty rules for the taking of further proofs on
appeals in admiralty cases. The Chief Justice reported
to the Conference that in investigating the subject the
Court had found that 28 U. S. C. § 863 contained a pro­
vision which might be deemed a Congressional authoriza­
tion of that practice. Since the Court's rule-making power
in admiralty is limited by 28 U. S. C. ~ 723 to rules not" in­
consistent with the laws of the United States", the Court
had taken no action on the Conference's recommendation.
 Presentation of the Views of the District Jud,qes to the
Conference.-Ill past years the Conference has recognized
                             17
the desirability of obtaining the views of the district judges
upon matters pending before the Conference, and especially
those whicl) relate to the \vork of the district courts. The
judicial conferences held in the various circuits afford con­
venient opportunity to the district judges to discuss such
matters and to make their views known. The Conference
was also of opinion that there should be some regular pro­
eedure for informing the district judges of the questions
which this Conference proposes to discuss, and for afford­
ing them opportunity to present their views to the Con­
ference. Accordingly the Conference adopted the f01­
lowing resolution:
       That it is the sense of the Conference that the agenda
    of the J'udicial Conference should be sent to the dis­
     trict judges and that all matters intended to be con­
    sidered at the Conference which e        cially affect the
    work of the district courts should b istributed to the
    district judges so far as possible; and that the Confer­
    ence invites the district judges to submit their views
    to it on such matters or any other matters, either by
    letter or in person.
  Review of Interstate Comrnel-ce Commission Orders.­
The Conference authorized the Chief Justice to appoint a
committee, including a member of the Interstate Com­
merce Commission, to consider the mode of securing
appellate review of orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, and of other ildministrative orders which
uncleI' the existing statutes are reviewed by a district court
of three judges ancl which may be appealed as of right to
the Supreme Court. The committee appointed consists of
Judge Hand, Chairman, Judge Magruder, Circuit Judge
Armistead M. Dobie, District Judge INalter C. Lindley, and
Interstate Commerce Commissioner Clyde B. Aitchison.
   Library Punds.-The Conference authorized the Chief
.Justice to appoint a committee for the study of the admin­
istration of library funds derived by the circuit courts of
appeals from fees for the admission of attorneys, and to
take such action as it may deem appropriate. The com­
mittee appointed consists of Judge Evans, Chairman,
                                18 

Judge Phillips, Circuit Judge John D. Martin, and Asso­
ciate Justice Fred M. Vinson of the United States Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia.
   Bankruptcy,{ldministmti.o,n.-The Conference author­
ized the Chief Justice to appoint a committee to consider
and report on certain matters of bankruptcy administration
which had been brought to the attention of the Conference,
and on such other problems of bankruptcy administration
as it might think it appropriate. The committee appointed
consists of Judge Phillips, Chairman, Circuit Judges
Jerome N. Frank and John B. Sanborn, and District ,Judges
William C. Coleman, F. Ryan Duffy, Hiram C, Ford and
Ralph E. Jenney.
   Bailiffs.-The Conference authorized the Chief Justice
to appoint a committee to consider the status, compensation
and method of appointment of bailiffs in the district courts
and circuit courts of appeals. '.rhe committee appointed
consists of Circuit Judge Albert B. Maris, Chairman, and
District Judges John P. Barnes, John C. Bowen, Alfred
C. 	Coxe, and Elmer D. Davies.
   Habeas Corp1ts.-The Conference authorized the Chief
Justice to appoint a committee to study the entire subject
of procedure on applications for habeas corpus in the
federal courts. The committee appointed consists of Judge
Parker, Chairman, Judge Stone, Circuit Judge Albert. Lee
Steph{'ns, and District Judges E. Marvin Underwood,
}~dgar S. Vaught and Charles E. 'Yyzanski, Jr.

   Imprisonment for Pailure to Pay a Fine.-The Confer­
('HCe authorized the Chief Justice to appoint a committee
to study the existing law and practice of imprisonment for
the failure to pay fines in criminal cases. The committee
nppointed consists of Circuit Judge Herbert F. Goodrich,
Chairman, Circuit .Judge Peter 'Voodbury, and District
Judges "William J', Campbell, ~Iac Swinford and Leon R.
Yankwlch.
  1118(m l '   Dc/eildailts.-The Conference anthorized the
        ,J Ilstie(' to appoint a committee to :ltndy, in coopo1'a­
                             1!J

tion with the Attorney General, the treatment accorded
by the federal courts to insane persons charged with crime.
The committee appointed consists of Judge Magruder,
Chairman, Judges Hand and Wilbur, Circuit Judges Otto
Kerner and Charles C. Simons, District Judge Merrill E.
Otis and Chief Justice Edward C. Eicher of the District
Court of the Untied States for the District of Columbia.
   Bills Approved.-The Conference recommended the pas­
sage of H. R. 141, extending the retirement provisions ap­
plicable to the judges in Hawaii to the judges of the United
States District Courts for Puerto Rico, Canal Zone, Alaska
and the Virgin Islands, and to the judges of the United
States Court for China. It also recommended the passage
of H. R. 7121 relating to the reorganization of railroads
under chapter XV of the Bankruptcy Act.
  Legislation DisappToved.-The Conference disapproved
H. R. 7473, providing for the division of the State of Cali­
fornia into three judicial districts. The Conference also
was of opinion that in view of the decision of the Supreme
Court in Textile Mills Corp. v. Cornrnissioner, 314 U. S.
326, no further legislation is necessary with respect to the
constitution of circuit courts of appeals in cases where such
courts sit en banco
  Advisory Cornrnittee.-The Conference continued the
committee, consisting of the Chief Justice, Judges Biggs,
Parker and Stone and Chief Justice Groner, to advise and
assist the Director in the performance of his duties.
  The Conference declared a recess, subject to the call of
the Chief Justice.
  For the Judicial Conference.
                                     HARLAN   F.   STONE,
                                            '}7,'ef   Justice.
  October 22, 1942.
