          REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
                 SEPTEMBER SESSION, 1943.



      The Judicial Conference, called by the Chief Justice
    pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 218, convened on September 28,
    1943, and continued in session four days. The following
    judges were present:
      The Chief Justice, presiding,
      First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Calvert Magruder,
      Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Learned Hand,
      Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John Biggs, Jr.,
      Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker,
      Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Samuel H. Sibley,
      Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Xenophon Hicks,
      Seventh Circuit, Circuit Judge Sherman Minton,
      Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone,
      Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Curtis D. Wilbur,
      Tenth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips,
      District of Columbia, Chief Justice D. Lawrence Groner.
      Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans of the Seventh Cir­
    cuit was prevented by illness from attending the Confer­
    ence. Judge Minton attended in his place.
      Judge Sibley was unable to attend the session on the
    fourth day.
      The Attorney General, accompanied by departmental
    assistants, was present at the opening of the Conference.
    The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
    States Courts, Henry P. Chandler, the Assistant Director,
    Elmore "Whitehurst, the Chief of the Division of Proced­
    ural Studies and Statistics, Will Shafroth, and other mem­
    bers of the staff of the Administrative Office were in at­
    tendance.
      The following persons attended by invitation of the Con­
    ference to aid it in its deliberations. Senators Frederick
    Van Nuys, Chairman, and John A. Danaher of the Senate
r   Judiciary Committee and Representatives Hatton VV.
                              2

Sumners, Chairman, and Clarence E. Hancock of the
Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives at­
tended for part of a session so that there could be an inter­
change of views upon pending and prospective legislation
affecting the work of the courts. Congressman Sam Hobbs
of Alabama presented proposed legislation authorizing the
experimental sound recording of the proceedings in one
court room of the District Court for the District of Co­
lumbia.
 , Circuit Judges Herbert F. Goodrich, Albert B. Maris,
and Albert L. Stephens, Justice Justin Miller of the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia, and District Judges
W. Calvin Chesnut, Carroll C. Hincks, John C. Knox, E.
Marvin Underwood, Edgar S. Vaught and Charles E.
Wyzanski, Jr., all members of committees appointed by
the Conference, attended at various times. Solicitor
General Fahy and Commissioner Clyde B. Aitchison of
the Interstate Commerce Commission considered with the
Conference a proposed revision of the method of review­
ing orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Chief
Justice Richard S. "Whaley of the United States Court of
Claims discussed proposed legislation relating to that
court.
  Statement of the Attorney General.-The Attorney Gen­
eral addressed the Conference with respect to various
matters of importance to the work of the federal judiciary.
He renewed his recommendations of the court reporter bill,
S. 620, H. R. 3142, the referees' bill, H. R. 1107, the public
defender bill, H. R. 676, and the federal corrections bills,
S. 894, 895, H. R. 2139, 2140, proposed by the Conference
in previous years. He emphasized the need, pending pas.,
sage of the corrections bills, for continued study of means
of improvement within the present system. He suggested
that the use of pre-sentence investigations be broadened,
and that consideration might be given to the desirability
of legislation authorizing appellate courts to review sen­
tences and reduce them if excessive, a suggestion which
                             3

had been considered by the Conference in 1939 but was
abandoned in favor of the modified indeterminate sentence
of the proposed corrections bill (S. 895, H. R. 2140).
   He expressed approval of the Conference committee's
report on United States Commissioners, but renewed his
recommendation that some commissioners be placed on a
salaried basis.   He recommended that further study be
given to the problem of providing for the trial of petty
offenses in the federal judicial system. In connection with
the report of the committee on imprisonment for failure
to pay a fine he recommended that mandatory fine provi­
sions in federal criminal statutes be eliminated, and that
no fine be imposed unless, on the basis of a pre-sentence re­
port, it appeared reasonably probable that the defendant
could pay it. He expressed general approval of the reports
of the Conference committees on the selection of jurors, on
bailiffs, and on habeas corpus procedure. In connection
with the work of the committee on the treatment of insane
persons charged with crime, he called attention to the grow­
ing importance of that problem created by the fact that
of 4,600 persons convicted under the Selective Training
and Service Act 200 were found to be of unsound mind.
The Attorney General said that the Department was urg­
ing agencies for the investigation of criminal offenders
to do everything possible to uncover such cases before con­
viction, and he emphasized the desirability of probation
officers giving careful attention to the defendant's mental
condition.
   He urged that in cases involving violations of war legis­
lation, particularly of the Emergency Price Control Act
of 1942, and cases involving serious war frauds, sentences
 commensurate with the gravity of the offense be imposed.
 He pointed out that in placing Selective Service defen­
 dants on probation a condition of probation should always
 be that the defendant comply with his obligations under
 the Act; in some cases it appears that no such condition
 had been imposed. In connection with the increase in
                             4

naturalization cases noted in the Director's Report, the
Attorney General said that the resolution adopted by the
                                                               -
Conference last year with respect to the dignity of natural­
ization proceedings had been very well received. In con­
sequence a manual of principles and procedures which
will serve to emphasize the significance of citizenship and
dignify naturalization proceedings, entitled "Gateway to
Citizenship", has been prepared by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for distribution to judges and offi­
cers concerned with naturalization.
  He recommended greater uniformity in appellate pro­
cedure in the various circuit courts of appeals, particu­
larly as to such matters as the form of briefs, the con­
tent of printed records and the time for filing briefs,
pointing out that the present diversity in practice imposed
a serious burden and inconvenience on divisions of the
Department which were constantly appearing in all of the
circuit courts of appeals. He recommended also that cir­
cuit courts of appeals adopt the practice of inviting the
Government to file briefs as amicus curiae in private liti­
gation involving important questions of public interest,
                                                               -
provided that the invitation leave the Government free to
decline.
   While he expressed the Department's approval of a
number of measures previously approved by or currently
presented to the Conference, he emphasized the especial
importance of the court reporter bill and the legislation
proposed by the committee on the selection of jurors.
  The Administration of the United States Courts.-Re­
port of the Director.-The Director submitted to the Con­
ference his fourth annual report, reviewing the activities
of the Administrative Office for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1943, and presenting detailed statistical data con­
cerning the work of the federal courts. The Conference
approved the Director's report, and ordered it to be re­
leased immediately for publication.
                                 5

  State 0/ the Dockets.-Number 0/ Cases Begun, Dis­
posed 0/, and Pending, in the District Courts.-The Di­
rector's annual report contains statistical comparisons of
the state of the dockets of the federal courts for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1943, with those of previous years.
In addition, each senior circuit judge presented to the Con­
ference reports on the work of the courts in his circuit.
  As the following table indicates, the number of civil
cases pending in the district courts on June 30, 1943, was
somewhat in excess of that in preceding years, although
the number commenced was measurably less.
Fiscal Year        Commenced          Terminated          Pending
    1940             34,734             37,367            29,478
    1941             38,477              38,561            29,394
    1942             38,140              38,352            29,182
    1943             36,789              36,044           29,927
(In conformity with the statistical basis used in the Director's Re­
   port, these figures include the courts of the Canal Zone and
   Virgin Islands. In previous reports of the Conference statistics
   for those courts have been excluded.)

   As a result of the war the character of civil cases pend­
ing has changed materially. The number of private civil
cases commenced in the district courts decreased by 16 ro,
and the number of new bankruptcy proceedings decreased
from 52,109 to 34,711-almost 331/3%. On the other hand,
the number of government civil cases filed within the past
fiscal year has increased about 12ro. More than twice as
many condemnation cases were brought during 1942 as
in the previous year, and for 1943 the number was further
increased by 25%. But the number of condemnation cases
filed in the second half of the past year was less than in
the first half, indicating that this burden on the federal
courts attributable to the exigencies of the war has passed
its peak. Naturalization cases likewise increased by a p­
proximately 17% over those of 1942. The total number
of criminal prosecutions increased by nearly 10%, an in­
                             6

crease more than accounted for by the number of prose­
cutions for offenses related to war measures. Prosecu­
tions under the Selective Training and Service Act num­
bered 7,934, and 2,311 prosecutions were brought for vio­
lation of price control and rationing regulations. \Vbile
the number of criminal prosecutions substantially increased,
the number of defendants involved decreased slightly.
   Delays in the Disposition of Cases.-The report states
that generally the federal courts made an excellent record
in the disposition of business during the past year. The
district courts disposed of slightly fewer cases than were
filed, largely because of the increase in the number of
condemnation cases. Exclusive of condemnation, habeas
corpus and forfeiture cases the median time for the dis­
position of civil cases terminated by court or jury trial
in district courts having only federal jurisdiction was 10.9
months. Marked progress has been made in eliminating
arrearages in two highly congested districts. The numbf:r
of civil cases pending on the trial calendars in the South­
ern District of New York has been reduced by nearly one­
half during the past year, although, owing to the increase
in the number of cases docketed which because of war con­
ditions cannot now be tried, the number of civil cases pend­
ing in that district remains about the same. In the Dis­
trict of Columbia the time between the placing of cases
on the trial calendars and their trial has been reduced
from eleven months on .June 30, 1941, to five months on
.June 30, 1943. The circuit courts of appeals during the
past yel:J,r reduced the number of cases pending by about
6%. The median time required for disposition of cases
actually heard in those courts, exclusive of the time re­
quired for the disposition of petitions for rehearing, was
6.5 months.
   As in past years the Administrative Office has acted
as a clearing house for information with respect to the
availability of judges for assignment to districts in which
the dockets are congested and has cooperated with the
                              7
Ohief Justice in securing the necessary consents to the
assignments made. The number of judges assigned for
service in district courts outside their circuits, although
substantially less than in 1942, remained considerable,
twenty-eight such assignments having been made. The
Act of December 29, 1942, 56 Stat. 1094, authorized the
Ohief Justice to assign circuit judges to serve temporarily
in other circuits. During the past year four such assign­
ments of circuit judges were made.
   Draft Deferment of Judicial Personnel.-As of August,
1943, according to the Director's report, 198 officers and
employees among the supporting personnel of the federal
judiciary had entered the armed services. The Act of April
8, 1943, Public Law No. 23, 78th Oongress, First Session,
authorized the Ohief Justice to appoint a committee with
exclusive power to request deferments of federal judicial
employees. The committee, consisting of Ohief Justice
Groner, Oircuit Judge Goodrich, and District Judge Wil­
liam O. Ooleman, has since its appointment requested the
deferment of eleven persons; prior to its appointment nine
persons had been granted deferments out of a total per­
sonnel of 2,083 in the classes of the court service for which
statistics are available.
  Cost of Jt,rors.-The Director's Report called atten­
tion to the further reduction in the cost of jurors in the
federal courts, the cost being about 8 per cent less during
the past than during the preceding year. This has made
possible a reduction in the appropriation for payment of
jurors. The decrease in cost is attributable in part to
the use of pre-trial conferences and in part to the exercise
of greater care by the courts in limiting the number of
persons called for jury service as nearly as possible to
the number actually required.
  Qualifications of Probation Officers.-The Director's
Report pointed to an improvement in the qualifications
of probation officers as a result of the resolution adopted
by the Oonference last year. Of the fifty-eight proba­
                                                                i
tion officers appointed in 1943, forty-seven had had a




                                                                I
                             8

college education, and forty-six had had two years' ex·
perience in welfare work, as was recommended by the
Conference's resolution. The Report pointed further to
the economic value of probation and to the war service
rendered by probationers, of whom 4,458 are known to
have entered the armed forces. Four have been decorated
for gallantry or exceptionally meritorious service, and
eighteen have been dishonorably discharged.
  Additional Judgeships.-After considering the report
of the Director and the statements of the respective Senior
Circuit Judges the Conference recommended that pro­
vision be made for an additional district judge for the
District of Delaware and an additional circuit judge for
the Third Circuit. It recommended the passage of S. 932
and H. R. 2395 providing for an additional district judge
for the Eastern District of Pennslyvania, and of S. 716
providing for an additional circuit judge for the Seventh
Circuit. It considered the proposed bills authorizing the
appointment of an additional district judge for the District
of Minnesota (H. R. 1619) and one for the District of North
Dakota (S. 704) and found no necessity for an additional
judge in either district.
  Supporting Judicial Personnel-Law Clerks-Bailiffs.­
At the last session of the Conference a committee was
appointed, of which Judge Biggs was chairman, to con­
sider the level of salaries of supporting judicial personneL
After extended study and conferences with the Civil Service
Commission the committee prepared a report which was
presented to the Conference by Justice l\Iiller. The report
proposed classifications of law clerks and secretaries to
judges and of court librarians comparable approximately
to the standard civil service classifications. It recom­
mended a maximum allotment of $6,500 for clerical service
for each district or circuit judge and of $7,500 for each
senior circuit judge or senior district judge in districts
having more than five judges. These classifications and
                              9

allotments were approved by the Conference with the ex­
ception that an additional classification of Clerical-Admin­
istrative-Fiscal-2 for library attendants was directed to
be added. The Conference adopted the following state­
ment of policy as proposed by the committee:
    Resolved, that it is the sense of the Conference that
    the compensation of secretaries and law clerks of
    circuit and district judges (exclusive of temporary
    addi tional compensation) shall be fixed by the Direc­
    tor of the Administrative Office without regard to
    the Classification Act of 1923, as amended, except
    that the salary of a secretary shall conform with that
    of the main (CAF-4), senior (CAF-5), or principal
    (CAF-6) clerical grade, or assistant (CAF-7), or
    associate (CAF-8) administrative grade, as the ap­
    pointing judge shall determine, and the salary of a
    law clerk shall conform with that of the junior (P-1),
    assistant (P-2), associate (P-3), full (P-4), or senior
     (P-5) professional grade, as the appointing judge
    shall determine, subject to review by the Judicial
    Council of the Circuit if requested by the Director,
     such determination by the judge otherwise to be
    final; Provided, That (exclusive of temporary addi­
    tional compensation) the aggregate salaries paid to
    secretaries and law clerks appointed by one judge
     shall not exceed $6,500 per annum, except in the case
     of the senior circuit judge of each circuit and the
    senior district judge of each district having five or
    more district judges, in which case the aggregate
    salaries shall not exceed $7,500.
   The Conference approved the reclassification of proba­
tion officers in the assistant, associate and full professional
grades (P-2, P-3 and P-4) and of clerk-stenographers in
probation offices in the assistant, main and senior clerical
grade!'! (CAF-3, CAF-4, and CAF-5) as recommended by
the committee. The committee reported that the current
appropriation by Congress is sufficient to carry out in con­
siderable part a reclassification of employees of the clerks'
offices in accordance with standards embodied in advisory
                                10 

  classifications prepared by the Civil Service Commission,
  and that such reclassifications are being carried into effect
  by the Administrative Office so far as the funds appro­
  priated permit. The Conference approved the report as
  a whole as modified and continued the committee with au­
  thority to present the action of the Conference to Con­
  gress.
    The committee on law clerks for district judges, ap­
  pointed at the last Conference, of which Judge Knox is 

  chairman, reported that inquiry of the district judges 

. disclosed that 50 who did not have law clerks desired 

  them. The current appropriations are sufficient to pro­ 

  vide for 25 new law clerks, whom the Conference directed 

  be provided for district judges in conformity to an allo­

  cation among the various circuits proposed by the Direc­

  tor. The Conference continued the committee on law 

  clerks.
    Judge Maris, as chairman, presented the report of the
  committee on bailiffs, appointed by the last Conference.
  The report found that serious hardship results from the
  fact that at present bailiffs in the federal courts are paid
  only on a per diem basis while court is in session or the
  judge is in chambers, and that there is need for a perma­
  nent officer who can act as court crier, maintain order
  while court is in session and render personal assistance
  to a judge in the performance of his duties both in the
  court room and in chambers. Such an officer should not
  be appointed by the marshal, as are bailiffs at present,
  but by the judge. The report pointed out that legislative
  authority for the permanent appointment of court criers
  exists in § 5 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 9, but that no
  appropriations for such officers have been made since
  1932. It recommended that the position of court crier
  for district courts be revived by a proposed amendment
  to § 5 of the Judicial Code which would provide that the
  crier perform also the duties of bailiff and messenger to
  the judge, at an annual salary of $1,800; that Rev. Stat.
                            11 

~ 715, 28 U. S. C. §§ 9, 595 be repealed; that the position
of temporary bailiff appointed by the marshal when
needed be retained; and that the position of messenger for
each circuit judge desiring such assistance, at a salary
of $1,500, be revived. The Conference approved the report
with the qualification that in preparing the budget esti­
mates the Director be authorized to ask only for sums
sufficient to provide for the number of messengers prob­
ably desired by circuit judges as indicated by the judges
present.
  Budget Estimates.-The Conference approved the esti­
mates of expenditures and appropriations necessary for
the maintenance of the United States courts and the Ad­
ministrative Office for the fiscal year 1945, as submitted
by the Director, and also approved an estimate in the
sum of $67,600 for a deficiency appropriation for fees for
1943 of United States commissioners including concilia­
tion commissioners.
  United States Commissioners.-At the last Conference
the Director presented a report on the operations of the
United States commissioner system, and a committee of
the Conference, of which Judge Hincks is chairman, was
appointed to make a report on this subject with recom­
mendations to the Conference. The report of the com­
mittee, presented to the Conference by Judge Hincks,
made a number of proposals for improvement in the ad­
ministration of the commissioner system. The Confer­
ence approved the committee's report. In conformity to
the report the Conference recommended the adoption of
a bill to provide a simplified system of fees for commis­
sioners by prescribing consolidated fees designed to ac­
complish on the average a moderate increase in the com­
pensation of commissioners; a bill providing that com­
missioners be furnished without cost to them with certain
supplies necessary for the efficient discharge of their
duties; a bill authorizing payment of commissioners' fees
 upon approval of their accounts by the Director, subject
                             12 

to final settlement in the General Accounting Office j a bill
authorizing the wardens of federal penal institutions to
administer the poor debtor's oath to indigent convicts as
a basis for their discharge from custody for failure to pay
a fine, saving to the convict the right to apply to a United
States commissioner in the event that the warden should
withhold favorable action; and bills authorizing a referee
in bankruptcy or national park commissioner also to be
appointed United States commissioner. The Conference
adopted the following resolutions proposed by the com­
mittee:
       Resolved that it is the sense of the Conference
    that the efficiency of the federal judicial system de­
    pends in substantial measure upon the proficiency
    and qualifications of the United States commission­
    ers. The Conference therefore recommends that the
    district judges, in whom the power of appointment
    and removal is lodged, terminate the appointments
    of all commissioners who as shown by their quarterly        ...
    reports to the Administrative Office are handling
    cases involving not over twenty defendants per year,
    save in exceptional situations where the district judges
    find it otherwise essential in the administration of
     justice, and that the termination of such appointments
    be accomplished either forthwith by order of court
    or by the expiration of the terms of such appointees;
       And that the Director be authorized and directed to
    obtain from the district judges and from other sources
     data as to the number of commissioners and to report
    the same periodically to the Conference with a view
     to future modification of this resolution or to the
     endorsement of legislation in the premises as future
     experience shall' suggest.
                          * ,. ,.
      Resolved, that it is the sense of the Conference that
    the appointment of commissioners should be confined to
    persons of sound and independent character, of good
                            13
intelligence and common sense, and of good repute,
and that when feasible only those should be appointed
who are free from present activity in partisan politics,
and that when judges in making an appointment are
 confronted with a choice between lawyer and layman,
each having in combination the foregoing qualifica­
tions to substantially the same degree, preference
 should normally be given to the candidate having the
additional advantage of education and experience in
law. .And it is recommended that in so far as feasible
in each district the judges arrange periodically for a
conference with the commissioners for the discussion
 of problems of mutual interest.
   And it is further resolved that the Director be
authorized and directed to obtain from the district
judges statements showing the qualifications of each
commissioner hereafter appointed or reappointed, and
from such statements and from any other data sub­
mitted from other sources to make appropriate re­
ports on the subject-matter to the Conference.
                     <II<   •    •


  Resolved that the Conference endorse as repre­
senting a sound procedure and good practice the
Manual for United States Commissioners as proposed
by the Committee; that the Director of the Adminis­
trative Office be authorized and directed to prepare a
revision of the 1929 compilation of the fiscal "Instruc­
tions to United States Commissioners"; that the Di­
rector be authorized to reproduce and circulate to all
the United States commissioners, including those
hereafter appointed, copies of said Manual and In­
structions with such revisions thereof as he shall
hereafter prepare to bring the same into conformity
with future changes in the law or with Federal Rules
of Criminal Procedure.

  Resolved that in the opinion of the Judicial Con­
ference a warrant of arrest lawfully issued by any
court of the United States or by a United States
                             14
    commissioner should be given a vitality coextensive          .' 

    in territorial scope with the jurisdiction of the United
    States, and that this opinion be communicated to the
    Advisory Committee on Rules of Criminal Procedure
    for its consideration.
   The committee expressed dissatisfaction with the opera­
tion of the commissioner system in Alaska, where it found
that the commissioners exercise a large number of non­
judicial functions which in some cases seemed inconsistent
with their judicial duties. But it concluded that the com­
missioner's status was so intimately related to the larger
question of the organization of the territorial government
as to be difficult if not impossible of regulation separately.
rrhe Conference, at a later stage in its sessions, called to
the attention of the representatives of the Judiciary Com­
mittees of the Senate and House of Representatives the
misgivings felt by the committee as to the soundness of
the commissioner system in Alaska, and the committee's
suggestion of the advisability of creating a suitable com­
mission to study the needs of the judicial establishment and
possibly of the entire governmental organization of that
territory.
   With respect to the desirability of extending the existing
jurisdiction of commissioners to try petty offenses com­
mitted in places over which the United States has exclu­
sive or concurrent power of legislation, 18 U. S. C. % 576,
576a, so as to authorize the trial by commissioners of
minor offenses wherever committed, the committee was
 equally divided. 'rhe Conference accordingly authorized
 the Chief Justice to appoint a committee to study and re­
 port to the Conference whether it would be appropriate
 and desirable to confer on the commissioners or similar
 officers jurisdiction for the trial in the first instance of
 minor offenses, and to recommend any legislation which the
 committee may think desirable. The Conference directed
 that the committee on United States commissioners be con­
 tinued tQ present its recommendations to Congress; other­
 wise the committee was discharged.
                                15 

       SelecUon of Jurors.-Two years ago a committee of
    the Conference, of which Judge Knox is chairman, was
    appointed to study the selection of jurors in the federal
    courts. Its report was submitted to the Conference last
    year and copies were directed to be distributed among the
    federal judiciary and other interested persons. Copies of
    the report were accordingly sent to all members of the fed­
    eral judiciary, all clerks of court and jury commissioners,
    73 bar associations, the press, and large numbers of persons
    expressing an interest in the subject. The report was con­
    sidered at several of the judicial conferences of the cir­
    cuits, and replies from 31 bar associations were received.
    As a result of the criticisms and suggestions received the
    committee submitted a revised report which was presented
    by Judge Knox and approved by the Conference.
        The Conference recommended the adoption of legisla­
    tion, drafted by the committee, which would amend 28
    C S. C. § 411 so as to prescribe uniform qualifications for

-   jurors in federal courts; amend 28 U. S. C. § 412 so as to
    increase to $10 the per diem compensation of jury commis­
    sioners, authorize the appointment, with the approval of
     the Judicial Conference, of full-time jury commissioners
    where needed and more accurately define the functions of
    jury commissioners; and amend 28 U. S. C. § 600 so as
     to authorize the payment to jurors of additional allow­
     ances not to exceed $2 per day for actual daily transporta­
     tion expenses, or subsistence where daily travel is imprac­
     ticable, and of a per diem not to exceed $10 for each day
     in excess of thirty spent in hearing a single case. It ap­
     proved the committee's numerous recommendations among
     which some of the more important are the following:
        Where feasible the practice should be followed of re­
     quiring each prospective juror to answer a questionnaire
     tending to elicit information as to his qualifications for
     jury service and, where conditions permit, to be personally
     interviewed. A form of questionnaire was suggested by
     the report;
                             16
   Study should be devoted in each district to the improve­
ment of the form and content of jury record systems;
   The senior district judge in multiple judge courts, as­
sisted by the jury commission, should be made responsible
for the administration of jury selection, trial calendars and
assignment of jurors. The committee was of the -opinion
that in most metropolitan districts central calendar systems
and jury pools could be used to advantage so as to reduce
the number of jurors held in court while awaiting their
selection for service in trials;
   Accommodations sufficient to provide for the comfort of
the jurors, particularly where women jurors are eligible
to serve, should be made available;
    The selection of petit jurors from talesmen, as author­
ized by 28 U. S. C. §417, should be reduced to a minimum.
The use of an emergency panel of jurors who would be
willing to report within a short time on notice by telephone
was suggested as an alternative;
   Jurors should be given accurate instruction as to the        "
nature of their duties, by carefully prepared oral charges
to the grand jury when it is impaneled and to petit jurors
when they report for service. As an aid to this end the
Conference approved the use of a handbook for petit jurors
prepared by the Administrative Office and recommended
that copies be made available to all district courts wishing
to use it;
   28 U. S. C. § 417a should be amended to permit alternate
jurors in criminal cases as in civil cases to replace any
jurors who for any substantial reason become unable to
perform their duties;
   The number of peremptory challenges allowed to the
Government and to the defendant in criminal cases should
in general be the same, and the number of challenges al­
lowed a defendant should be reduced from ten to six in
all cases except trials for capital offenses;
    The practice of conducting the voir dire examination of
 trial jurors by the judge alone, aided by the suggestions
                             17 

or requests of counsel, should be followed in all districts;
  Waivers of jury trial and stipulations for trial by juries
of less than twelve persons or for verdicts of a stated
majority of the jurors should be encouraged;
  Appropriate rules of procedure should be framed to
permit trial jurors in the discretion' of the judge to take
notes on the evidence presented to them, and to consult
those notes during their deliberations, provided that the
notes be treated as confidential and that on rendition of a
verdict or discharge of the jury they be delivered to the
clerk and destroyed;
  The calling for jury service of persons who are employed
in essential war industries should be avoided, and the
procedure followed in the New York courts, by which
prospective jurors employed in war industries can be ex­
cused without the necessity of appearance in court upon
submission of a written statement approved by their em­
ployer, was recommended as an example. S. 999, designed
to provide statutory authority for the use of such a pro­
cedure in the federal courts, was approved in principle,
but the committee suggested that this recommendation
could best be carried out administratively.
  Bankruptcy.-Judge Phillips presented the report of
the committee on bankruptcy, authorized by the last Con­
ference to consider various matters relating to the ad­
ministration of the bankruptcy laws. The committee re­
ported that as a result of opposition to certain provisions
of the referees' bill, H. R. 1107, as approved by the last
Conference, it seemed wise to make certain amendments
to the bill. Accordingly the Conference adopted the re­
commendation of the committee that H. R.ll07 be amended
by eliminating ~ 34 (b) which limited the discretion of
district judges in the reappointment of referees, and by
SUbstituting for the present provisions relating to the res­
ignation and retirement of referees a provision according
to full-time referees and full-time employees in referees'
offices the benefits of the Civil Service Retirement Act of
                             18 

May 29, 1930, as amended; the Conference renewed its
support of H. R. 1107 as thus amended.
    The Conference approved the recommendation of the
committee that district judges be urged to call bankruptcy
conferences in their respective districts to be attended by
the district judge or judges, the referees in bankruptcy,
and Mr. Covey of the Administrative Office with the object
of bringing about proper rules and practices relating to
indemnity funds. It resolved that the Administrative Office
should exercise full supervision over indemnity funds and
practices with respect to them, and that it should endeavor
to secure the adoption by the courts of the plan recom­
mended by it for administering official funds and regulat­
ing accounting practices of conciliation commissioners,
with such modifications in particular districts as may seem
necessary.
    The Conference approved the committee's recommenda­
 tion that the court be authorized in appropriate cases to
 make the discharge of the bankrupt conditional upon his        '"
application of income in excess of necessary living ex­
penses, and of non-exempt after-acquired property, to the
 satisfaction of his debts. It accordingly recommended the
 enactment of legislation amending the discharge provis­
 ions of the Bankruptcy Act in accordance with the recom­
 mendations of the Thacher-Garrison Report of December
 5, 1931, Senate Document No. 65, 72nd Congress, 1st Ses­
 sion, except that the proposal of that report for the estab­
 lishment of an official corps of examiners and administra­
 tors in bankruptcy was disapproved. In its place the Con­
  ference recommended that referees be authorized to call
  upon trustees and United States attorneys to make inves­
  tigations and reports respecting bankrupts.
     The Conference approved in principle H. R. 2329,
  amending the provisions of § 75 (a) of the Bankruptcy
  Act with respect to the appointment of conciliation com­
  missioners, and suggested amendments eliminating divis­
  ions as units for the appointment of conciliation commis­
  sioners or supervising conciliation commissioners, and
                             19 

making referees in bankruptcy eligible for appointment
as supervising conciliation commissioners. The Confer­
ence instructed the Director to suggest to district judges
that they do not fill vacancies in the office of referee in
bankruptcy if there remain in the district a sufficient num­
ber of referees to dispose of the bankruptcy business effi­
ciently. r:rhe Conference recommended that § 53 of the
Bankruptcy Act be amended to read as follows:
    "The Director of the Administrative Office of the
    United States Courts annually shall lay before Con­
    gress statistical tables which ",ill accurately reflect
    the business transacted by the several bankruptcy
    courts and other pertinent data."
  'l'he Conference adopted the following resolution:
       "Resolved that the Administrative Office be auth­
    orized to make general surveys of referees' bonds
    as often as may be considered necessary, and when­
    ever any of such bonds appear to be insufficient or
    otherwise irregular, to call the facts to the attention
    of the district judge whose district is affected, and
    to submit such recommendations in reference thereto
    as may be considered appropriate under the circum­
    stances;
       And be authorized to call to the attention of district
    judges any and all irregularities or improper prac­
    tices in their respective districts which may be dis­
    closed by reports of examiners or otherwise brought
    to the attention of the Administrative Office, and to
    submit its recommendation as to the proper steps to
    be taken to rectify such conditions;
       That the Administrative Office be authorized to
    tender to district judges the available services of
    the Bankruptcy Division for the purpose of making
    comprehensive surveys of the various factors affecting
    bankruptcy administration in their respective dis­
    tricts, with a view to recommending such improve­
    ments or changes in bankruptcy practice and proce­
    dure as may tend to promote more efficient and uni­
    form administration.
                              20
       Be it further resolved that until legislation is passed
    so permitting, the payment of the premium on ref­
    erees' bonds from the indemnity fund be not approved
    by the Administrative Office;
       And that when the subscription price of the Ref­
    erees' Journal is segregated from dues of the Refer­
    ees' Association, the payment of the subscription price
    thereof from the indemnity fund be approved by the
    Administrative Office;
       And that it is the sense of the Conference that the
    expenses incurred by referees in attending conferences
    of referees held \\ithin a judicial district and officially
    called by the district judge or district judges thereof,
    and conferences within a judicial circuit officially called
    by the senior circuit judge or circuit council, should
    be allowed and paid as proper disbursements from
    the indemnity fund; and that expenses incurred by
    the referees in attending national conventions of the
    Referees' Association and meetings of the National
    Bankruptcy Conference, not called by or conducted
    under the auspices of federal judges, should not be
    allowed as proper disbursements from the indemnity
    fund."
   The committee on bankruptcy was authorized to con­
tinue its studies and directed to report its further recom­
mendations at the next annual Conference.
  Procedure for Convening District Courts of Three
Judges.-Appellate Review of Orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.-The report of the committee ap­
pointed to recommend a uniform procedure for the con­
vening of district courts of three judges, of which Judge
Evans was chairman, was presented by Judge Maris. The
committee recommended the adoption of legislation pro­
viding for a uniform method of assembling district courts
of three judges under 15 U. S. C. ~ 28, 49 U. S. C. ~ 44,
and 28 U. S. C. ~~ 47, 380, 380a, incorporating in the
Judicial Code all presently effective provisions of the
Urgent Deficiencies Act, and clarifying the venue provi­
                            21 

sions of that Act. The Conference approved the report
and recommended the adoption of the bill which it pro­
posed, with the addition of a clause providing that
    "ji'or the purposes of this Act, the District of Colum­
    bia shall be deemed a judicial circuit and the Chief
    Justice and Associate Justices of the United States
    Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia shall
    be deemed respectively the Senior Circuit Judge and
    Circuit Judges of the Circuit."
   Judge Learned Hand, as chairman of the committee on
appellate review of orders of the Interstate Commerce Com­
mission and certain other administrative orders, reported
that differences of opinion had developed within the com­
mittee which made it desirable to secure further instruc­
tions from the Conference.       Accordingly Commissioner
Aitchison and Solicitor General Fahy were invited to at­
tend the Conference and present their views with respect
to the review of orders of the Interstate Commerce Com­
mission. After hearing them the Conference adopted the
following resolution:
      "Resolved, that it is the sense of the Conference
    that review of orders of the Interstate Commerce
    Commission, and of other administrative orders now
    reviewable by a district court of three judges from
    whose decision an appeal lies to the Supreme Court,
    should be upon petition to the appropriate Circuit
    Court of Appeals on the record made before the ad­
    ministrative body, that any further review should be
    by the Supreme Court on petition for writ of certiorari,
    and that the United States and the Commission should
    each have the right to petition for writ of certiorari."
   The committees on the review of orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission and certain other administrative
ol'rters and on three-judge court procedure were consoli­
dated and Judge Phillips was appointed chairman of the
consolidated committee, with directions to draft legisla­
tion which would carry out the foregoing resolution of
                             22 

the Conference. The committee was directed to consider
the procedure on review of such orders by the circuit court
of appeals, including the scope of the record to be brought
before that court, and to incorporate its recommendations
in the proposed legislation.
  . Habeas Corpus Procedut'e.-The report of the commit­
tee on habeas corpus procedure, of which Judge Parker
is chairman, was extensively considered by the Confer­
ence. The committee prepared two bills to carry out its
recommendations, one regulating the procedure in federal
courts on applications for writ of habeas corpus to inquire
into the legality of detention of persons held by reason of
conviction of crime by a federal or state court, the other
limiting the jurisdiction of federal courts to issue the writ
for that purpose. The Conference approved the proce­
dural bill, referred to in the committee's report as statute
"B", but with the sUbstitution for section 1 of the alter­
native section 1 proposed by a minority of the committee.
The bill as approved among other things makes applicable
 to habea~ corpus proceedings the doctrine of res judicata
but allows a judge to whom application for the writ has
been made to grant a rehearing at any time; allows the
 certificate of the trial judge as to facts occurring at the
 trial to be filed in lieu of requiring him to testify in the
 habeas corpus proceeding; allows testimony to be taken by
 affidavit in the discretion of the judge; and makes ad­
 missible evidence taken on prior habeas corpus applica­
 tions.
    The jurisdictional bill, statute "A", was substantially
 amended by the committee just prior to the Conference and
 received additional amendments at the Conference. The
  Conference recommended the adoption of the following
 bill, and appointed Judges Parker, Phillips and Stone to
  act as a committee on style, with instructions to submit to
  each member of the Conference any revisions of the bill
  made by them:
                         23 

A Bill to Regulate the Review of Judgments of
    Conviction in Certain Criminal Cases.
   Be it enacted by the Sena.te and House ot Repre­
 sentatives of the United States ot America in Con~
gress assembled, That no Circuit or District Judge
of the United States shall have jurisdiction to issue
a writ of habeas corpus to inquire into the validity
of imprisonment of a prisoner held in custody pur­
suant to a conviction of a court of any state, or to
release sueh prisoner in any habeas corpus proceed­
ing, unless it shall appear that the petitioner has no
adequate remedy by habeas corpus, writ of error
 eoram nobis or otherwise in the courts of the state.
Where a prisoner in custody pursuant to a conviction
of a court of any state, claiming the right to be re­
leased on the ground that the judgment has been
obtained in violation of the Constitution or laws of
 the United States, who has no adequate remedy in a
 state court by habeas corpus, writ of error coram
 nobis or otherwise, files a petition for writ of habeas
 corpus before any Circuit or District Judge of the
 United States, such judge shall determine whether
 there is reasonable ground for the issuance of the
writ, and, if so, shall issue same and shall cause a
court of three judges to be constituted as provided by
 Section 266a of the Judicial Code, (28 USCA 380a),
 who shall constitute a special court for the hearing
 of such petition. The decision of such court shall be
 reviewable by the Supreme Court of the United States
 by writ of certiorari. If the judge to whom applica­
 tion for the writ is made shall determine that there is
 no reasonable ground for issuing same, he shall dis­
 miss the petition, from which action an appeal shall lie
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Circuit, upon
 the filing of the certificate required by 28 USCA 466.
 The phrase "no adequate remedy" as used in this
 section means absence of state corrective process or
 existence of exceptional circumstances, rendering such
 process unavailable to protect his rights.
                            24
      Sec. 2. Any prisoner in custody pursuant to a
   judgment of conviction of a court of the United States,
   claiming the right to be released on the ground that
   the judgment has been obtained in violation of the
   Constitution or laws of the United States, may apply
   by motion, formally or informally, to the court in
   which the judgment was rendered to vacate or set
   aside the judgment, notwithstanding the expiration
   of the term at which such judgment was entered. Such
   court shall thereupon cause notice of the motion to
   be served upon the United States attorney and grant
   a prompt hearing thereon and find the facts with re­
   spect to the issues raised thereon. If the court finds
   that the judgment was rendered without jurisdiction,
   or that the sentence imposed was in excess of the
   maximum prescribed by law or otherwise open to
   collateral attack or motion to correct sentence, or that
   there had been such a denial or infringement of the
   constitutional rights of the prisoner as to render the
   judgment vulnerable to collateral attack, the court shall
   vacate and set the judgment aside and shall discharge
   the prisoner or resentence him or grant a new trial
    as may appear appropriate. An appeal from an order
    granting or denying the motion shall lie to the circuit
   court of appeals. No circuit or district judge of the
    United States shall entertain an application for writ
    of habeas corpus in behalf of any prisoner who is
    authorized to apply for relief by motion pursuant to
    the provisions of this section, unless it appears that
    it has not been or will not be practicable to have his
    right to discharge from custody determined on such
    motion because of the necessity of his presence at the
    hearing, or for other reasons.
  Imprisonment tor Fail'ure to Pay a Fine.-The Confer­
ence approved the report of the committee on imprison­
ment for failure to pay a fine in criminal cases, which
was presented by its chairman, Judge Goodrich, and
adopted the following resolution:
                            25 

      "Resolved, that the Judicial Conference recommend
   to the district judges that where it is not mandatory,
   a fine should not be imposed upon a defendant in a
   criminal case when he is sentenced to imprisonment,
   unless there is reasonable expectation that the defen­
   dant can pay the fine imposed or unless the judge
   considers the imposition of a fine particularly appro­
   priate to the offense;
      "That where the imposition of a fine is obligatory
   under the applicable statute, the sentencing judge
   should not commit the defendant for non-payment of
   the fine (1) unless such commitment is required by
   law, or (2) unless the sentencing judge, in the exercise
   of his discretion, concludes that the additional com­
   mitment is desirable in the particular case;
      "That the printed form of judgment used in the
   district courts be amended by the elimination of the
   printed clause providing for the commitment of the
   defendant for the non-payment of any fine which may
   have been imposed;
      "That these recommendations be brought to the
   attention of the district judges at the meetings of the
    Judicial Councils in the various circuits."
  Participation in Political Activities.-The Conference
adopted the following resolution:
       "Whereas with rare exceptions the officers and em­
    ployees of the federal courts have kept free from
    political activities during their terms of service, but
    it seems desirable to guard against deviations from
    this course, and for that purpose to recommend a
    standard;
       "Therefore be it resolved, that it is the sense of
    the Judicial Conference that it is incompatible with
    the proper service of the federal judiciary for its
    officers or employees to become candidates for political
    office or participate in other political activities of a
    kind forbidden to employces of the executive branch
    of the Government by the Hatch Act (18 U. S. C.
    61h)."
                              26 

  Claims .Against the United States.-After considering
the pending bills authorizing the prosecution of suits in
tort against the United States, (S. 1114, H. R. 1356, 817),
some of which provide for appellate review by the Court
of Claims where the suit is brought in a district court,
the Conference authorized the Chief Justice to appoint a
committee to study generally the subject of the prosecu­
tion of claims against the United States, and directed the
committee to advise the committees of Congress that the
Conference is opposed to conferring appellate jurisdiction
on the Court of Claims.
   Legislation Recommended.-The Conference renewed
its recommendations in support of the sentencing and
parole bills and the bills for waiver of indictment (S. 895,
894, 28, H. R. 2140, 2139, 1207, 327), the court reporter bill
(S. 620, H. R. 3142), the legislation with respect to clerks'
fees (S. 471, 472, H. R. 1569, 1623), the bill (H. R. 676)
providing for the appointment of public defenders in the
district courts of the United States, with an amend­
ment making the services of public defenders available
in habeas corpus cases in which the petitioner is pro­
ceeding in forma pauperis, and the bill (8. 1324, H. R.
3229) to remove the civil disabilities of probationers suc­
cessfully completing their probation. The Conference also
approved the following bills: H. R. 1208, authorizing the
 judicial council of any circuit to dispense with the holding
of a stated term of a district court or the maintenance of
 a clerk's office at a place designated by law if in either case
 the council finds that the term of court or clerk's office
 dispensed with is not required by the public convenience;
 S. 640 and H. R. 2969, to simplify the method of handling
 trust funds of clerks of court and marshals; H. R. 1197, to
 provide for the trial by judicial tribunals of the issue of
 good behavior of certain federal judges.
   Committees .Appointed.-Pursuant to resolutions of the
 Conference the Chief Justice appointed the following
 committees with directions to report their recommenda­
 tions at the next Conference:
                              27 

   . A committee on the trial of minor offenses by commis­
 sioners or similar federal officers, consisting of Chief Jus­
 tice Groner, Chairman, Circuit Judge Thomas W. Swan,
 District Judges George H. Moore and Charles E. "'Wyzan­
 ski, Jr.
     A committee on claims against the United States and
the procedure for their prosecution, consisting of Judge
 Stone, Chairman, Circuit Judge Joseph C. Hutcheson, Jr.,
 District Judges Jj'rederic P. Schoonmaker and George C.
.Sweeney, Chief Justice Richard S. Whaley of the Court
 of Claims.
     A committee to consider the adequacy of existing pro­
 visions for the protection of the rights of indigent litigants
 in the federal courts, consisting of Circuit Judge Augustus
 N. Hand, Chairman, Circuit Judge Otto Kerner, District
 Judges Guy K. Bard and Eugene Rice.
     A committee to study the use of pre-trial procedure in
 the federal courts, consisting of .Judge Parker, Chairman,
 Circuit Judge Alfred P. Murrah, District Justice Bolitha
 J. Laws, District Judge Paul J. McCormick.
     A committee to consider the representation of district
 judges in the Conference of Senior Circuit Judges.
 This committee was authorized to be appointed in response
 to the resolution of the Judicial Conference of the Seventh
 Circuit, recommending the annual election from each
 circuit of one district judge to be a member of the suc­
 ceeding Conference of Senior Circuit Judges. The com­
 mittee consists of .Judge Phillips, Chairman, Chief Jus­
 tice Groner, Judge Parker.
     A committee to consider in consultation with the Direc­
 tor methods of improving the existing scheme of collecting
 and compiling federal judicial statistics by the Admin­
 istrative Office. The committee consists of Judge Learned
 Hand, Chairman, Circuit Judges William Denman and
 Charles FJ. Clark, District Judges William H. Kirkpatrick
 and Royce H. Savage.
                           28
  A committee to consider the proposal, approved by the
Judicial Conference of the Ninth Circuit, that 18 U. S. C.
§ 541 be amended so as to make the definition of "felony"
depend upon the punishment actually inflicted rather than
the punishment which could lawfully be imposed. The
committee consists of Judge Wilbur, Chairman, Circuit
Judge Peter 'Voodbury, District Judges Walter C. Lindley
and J. F. T. O'Connor.
  Committees Continued.-The Conference took no action
on the report of the committee on a uniform time for
appeal to Circuit Courts of Appeals, and directed that
the committee be continued for further investigation of
the subject. No reports were submitted by the committee
on a special court of patent appeals, the committee on the
treatment of insane persons charged with crime in the
federal courts, and the committee on library funds of
certain Circuit Courts of Appeals. The Conference di­
rected that these committees be continued, and that Chief
Justice Groner be added to the committee on library funds.
  Advisory Committee.-The Conference continued the
committee, consisting of the Chief Justice, Judges Biggs,
Parker and Stone and Chief Justice Groner, to advise and
assist the Director in the performance of his duties.
  The Conference declared a recess, subject to the call
of the Chief .Justice.
  For the Judicial Conference:
                                    HARLAN   F.   STONE,
                                          Chief Justioe.
November 5, 1943
