       REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
                  SEPTEMBER SESSION 1 1945.


   The Judicial Conference convened, pursuant to 28 U. S. C.
~ 218, on September 25, 1945, on the call of the Chief Justice,
and continued in session for four days. The following
judges were present:
    The Chief Justice, presiding, 

    First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Calvert Magruder, 

    Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Learned Hand, 

    Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John Biggs, Jr., 

    Fourth Circuit, Circuit Judge Morris A. Soper, 

    Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Samuel H. Sibley, 

    Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Xenophon Hicks, 

    Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans, 

    Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone, 

    Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Francis A. Garrecht, 

    Tenth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips, 

    District of Columbia, Chief Justice D. Lawrence Groner. 

  Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker of the Fourth Circuit
was unable to attend the Conference except for the after­
noon session of the fourth day. Judge Soper attended in
his place.
  The Conference welcomed the new Senior Circuit Judge
for the Ninth Circuit, Judge Garrecht, succeeding Judge
Wilbur, retired, and adopted the following resolution:
        "WHEREAS, Judge Curtis D. Wilbur has long served
      as a member of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
      Ninth Circuit, and has attended many of these Con­
      ferences as the Senior Circuit Judge of the Ninth Cir­
      cuit, and
        "Whereas, we have found his counsel and advice wise
      and helpful, and in our personal contacts with him we
      have always found him sympathetic and considerate,
      and our association with him pleasant;
                              2

      "Now, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that we express
    our appreciation of his valuable services and assure
    him of our affectionate regard. We treasure the mem­
    ories of our mutual efforts as members of this Judicial
    Conference. "
  Senator Patrick A. McCarran, Chairman of the Judiciary
Committee of the Senate, and Representative Hatton W.
Sumners, Chairman of the Judiciary Committee of the
House of Representatives, were present on invitation of the
Conference for a part of the third day's session, and dis­
cussed with the Conference pending and prospective legis­
lation affecting the federal judicial system.
   The Attorney General was present on the third day and
addressed the Conference.
   Henry P. Chandler, the Director of the Administrative
Office of the United States Courts, Elmore Whitehurst, the
Assistant Director, Will Shafroth, the Chief of the Division
of Procedural Studies and Statistics, and other members of
the staff of the Administrative Office attended the Confer­
ence to aid in its deliberations.
   On invitation of the Conference, the following were pres­
ent at various times: Circuit Judges Charles E. Clark,
William Denman, Albert B. Maris, Thomas F. McAllister,
District Judge John C. Knox, Justice Alexander Holtzoff,
Presiding Judge Finis J. Garrett of the United States Court
of Customs and Patent Appeals, Referee in Bankruptcy
Henry Bundschu of the Western District of Missouri, Edwin
L. Covey, Chief of the Bankruptcy Division of the Admin­
istrative Office of the United States Courts, Lewis J. Grout,
Chief of the Probation Division of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts, Gerald Davis, Chief, Division
of Justice Department Archives of the National Archives,
Berry H. Horne, President of the National Shorthand Re­
porters Association, and the following court reporters from
various parts of the country: W. George Briggs, Hall Etter,
Raymond R. Farrell, Alfred H. Frederick, Roy E. Fuller,
Chloe MacReynolds, A. George Maul, H. S. Middlemiss,
Jesse L. Ward, and Kenneth G. Gagan.
                                    3
         Statement of the Attorney General.-The Attorney Gen.
      eral addressed the Conference with respect to various mat­
      ters of importance to the work of the federal judiciary. He
      stated that both the President and he realized the necessity
      of promptly filling all the vacancies on the federal bench
      and said that nearly all such vacancies had been filled. He
      referred to the fact that in choosing appointees an effort
      had been, and would continue to be, made to select those
      who have had trial experience either on the bench or at
      the bar.
         The Attorney General stated that he heartily favored
      pending legislation for the increase of salaries of federal
      judges, and spoke with approval of pending legislation de­
       signed to provide for public defenders in the federal courts;
      to place referees in bankruptcy on a salary basis; to sim­
      plify and improve the present fee system of the United
       States Commissioners; and to improve the jury system and
      the method of selecting jurors in the federal courts. He
      also endorsed the federal sentencing bill, approved by the
,-'    Conference in previous years, and in this connection he re­
      ferred to the frequent deplorable disparity in the length of
      sentences imposed by the district courts for like offenses.
      He stated that legislation for dealing with mentally af­
      flicted defendants in criminal cases was in the process of
       preparation in cooperation with the committee of the Judi­
       cial Conference on the Treatment of Insane Persons
       Charged with Crime in the Federal Courts.
          The Attorney General suggested that in habeas corpu,s
       proceedings the courts should adopt more widely than here­
       tofore the practice of issuing orders to show cause in the
       first instance instead of issuing the writ. He called atten­
       tion to 8 U. S. C. § 155, providing for the mandatory depor­
       tation of aliens convicted of certain types of crimes, unless
       the trial judge, at tte time of passing sentence or within
       thirty days thereafter, recommends against deportation.
       He pointed out that some judges appear to be unaware of
       the existence of their power in this respect and suggested
       that the matter be called to their attention, in order that
                                                     4
in each instance in which the defendant is subject to depor­
tation the judge may determine whether to make a recom­
                                                                                        -
mendation against it. He called attention to the fact that,
although practically the entire field of judicial procedure
is governed by rules promulgated by the Supreme Court,
the procedure in condemnation cases has not been so regu­
lated, and urged the adoption of rules of procedure for such
proceedings.
  Administration of the United States Courts.-Report
of the Director.-The Director submitted to the Conference
his sixth annual report reviewing the activities of the Ad­
ministrative Office for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945,
including the report of the Division of Procedural Studies
and Statistics. The Conference approved the Director's
report and ordered it released for pUblication. The Direc­
tor was authorized to include additional statistical infor­
mation in the printed edition of the report to be issued later.
  State of the Dockets of the Federal Courts.-Cases be­
gun, disposed of, and pending in the District Courts.-The
Director's report presented detailed statistical data con­
cerning the work of the federal courts. In addition each
Senior Circuit Judge reported to the Conference on the
work of the courts in his circuit.
  The following table indicates for each of the last five fiscal
years, ended on June 30, the number of civil cases com­
menced in the District Courts (including those of the Canal
Zone and the Virgin Islands), and the number of cases in
those courts terminated during each year, as well as the
number of cases pending at the close of each year:
       Fiscal Year ended
          on June 30                                Commenced Terminated     Pending
1941   ............................ ,. ..........     38,477        38,561   29,394

1942   ....... ..............................
               ~                                      .38,140
                                                                •   38,352   29,182 

1943   ...... " ..............................        36,789        36,044   29,927 

1944   ....................................           38,499        37,086   31,340 

1945   ......................................         60,965        52,300   40,005 

                                    5

          The very large increase in the number of cases com­
     menced in the District Oourts since 1944 has been due, al­
     most entirely, to the increase of civil cases in which the
     United States was a party, the number of which rose from
     20,895 in 1944 to 43,110 in 1945. In turn this increase is
     attributable to the rise in the number of civil suits for the
     enforcement of the price control and rationing regulations.
     There were 6,707 such suits in 1944, and 28,653 in 1945.
     The number of land condemnation cases has continued to
     decline, dropping from 2,748 in 1944, to 1,307 in 1945.
        The number of private civil cases remained about the
     f'ame, rising about 1.5 per cent from 17,604 in 1944 to 17,81)5
     in 1945. The decline in new bankruptcy cases continued in
     1945 although at a lessened rate, the number of such cases
     filed being 12,862 as compared with 19,533 in 1944. The
     number filed during the past year was the lowest in any
     year since the enactment of the present Bankruptcy Act in
     1898. The number of naturalization proceedings also de­
     clined rapidly, the number of aliens naturalized in the fed­
,-    eral courts falling from 320,507 in 1944 to 167,342 in 1945,
     a decrease of 48 per cent.
         The total number of criminal cases filed in 1945 was about
     1/2 of 1 per cent less than the number in 1944, 39,429 in
     1945, as compared with 39,621 in 1944. Nevertheless there
     was an increase of prosecutions in 1945 for some of the
     more common types of peace time offenses; thus, prosecu­
     tions for violation of the National Motor Vehicle Theft Act
      rose from 1,233 in 1944 to 1,281 in 1945; prosecutions for
      other forms of theft and for fraud, rose from 5,688 to 6,930,
      and prosecutions for violation of the liquor laws from 5,335
      to 5,952.
       The Dispatch of Judicial Business.-Additional Judges.
     The reports of the Director and the several Senior Oircuit
     Judges indicate that generally the federal courts made a
     good record in the disposition of business during the past
     year. The median time from filing to final disposition of
     civil cases terminated in the District Oourts in 1945 (ex­
-    eluding habeas corpus, forfeiture, and land condemnation
                               6
cases) was 9 months as compared with 10.5 months in 1944.
                                                                  -
The median time required for the disposition of cases in
the Circuit Courts of Appeals in which there was a hearing
increased from 6.5 months in 1944 to 7 months in 1945. But
the median time for deciding cases in the Circuit Courts
of Appeals, that is, the period from argument to decision
or final judgment, declined from 1.5 to 1.4 months.
   The volume of business of the United States Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals and the United States Cus­
toms Court remained about stationary during the year. In
the United States Court of Claims 457 cases were disposed
of, while 359 were filed, the number of pending cases being
reduced from 822 in 1944 to 724 in 1945. Of these cases
only 441 are regarded as active. Fifty-two cases were pend­
ing in the united States Emergency Court of Appeals at
the close of the year, as compared with 40 at the beginning.
The average time consumed in the disposition of cases by
the Emergency Court, from the filing of the complaint to
decision (exclusive of any time required for submitting ad­
ditional evidence) was 6.8 months.
  During 1945 the Chief Justice assigned an increased
number of circuit and district judges for temporary service
in the courts of circuits other than their own. There were
eleven assignments of circuit judges to serve in the Courts
of Appeals in other circuits, as compared with five in 1944.
The Chief Justice designated thirty-three district judges to
sit in district courts outside their circuits, as compared with
twenty-nine in 1944. The practice of assigning judges for
temporary service outside their circuits gives flexibility
in the employment of judicial manpower of the federal
courts. It affords relief for congested dockets, and the ex­
perience gained is of benefit to the judges designated and
to the courts to which they are assigned. The Conference
authorized the appointment of a committee to study the
question whether more effective use of the assignment pro­
cedure can be made and to consider whether any amend­
ment to the present statutory provisions governing that
procedure is desirable.
                               7
   After consideration of the Report of the Director and the
statements of the several senior circuit judges, the Confer­
ence recommended that provision be made for an additional
district judge for the District of Delaware, a sixth district
judge for the District of New ,Jersey, an additional district
judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and an addi­
tional district judge for the Northern District of California.
The Conference recommended that the pending bill to pro­
vide for two additional judges for that district (8. 1163)
be amended to provide for one additional judge. The Con­
ference also recommended the repeal of the prohibition
against filling the vacancy in the district court for the South­
ern District of New York caused by the retirement of the
late Judge Woolsey. The Conference urged the passage
of the following bills now pending in Congress: S. 141, "to
clarify the law relating to the filling of the first vacancy
occurring in the office of district judge for the Eastern Dis­
trict of Pennsylvania", and to make it plain that the va­
cancy can be filled; H. R. 3871, providing for an additional
district judge for the District of Kansas, but providing
that whenever a vacancy shall occur in the office of district
judge for that district, such vacancy shall not be filled;
S. 240 and H. R. 1196, making permanent the last addi­
tional office of district judge created for the Eastern and
Western Districts of Missouri.
   The Conference considered the following bills and found
no necessity for their passage at the present time: S. 108,
providing for an additional circuit judgeship for the Sev­
enth Circuit; S. 347, repealing the prohibition against filling
a vacancy in the office of district judge for the Northern
and Southern Districts of West Virginia; S. 981, providing
for three judicial districts in the State of Mississippi in­
stead of two as at present; and H. R. 3080, providing for
an additional district judge for the Eastern District of
Washington.
  Supporting Personnel of the Federal Courts.-The Di­
rector reported that despite the addition of 105 court criers
under the Act of December 7, 1944, 58 Stat. 796-7, and 143
                              8
court reporters for the district courts under the Act of June
20, 1944, 58 Stat. 5-7, the total supporting personnel of the
                                                                 -
federal courts (exclusive of the Supreme Court) is nearly
900 less than the number reported in the 1940 annual report.
This sharp decrease has been due to a reduction in the
number of part-time officers, particularly referees in bank­
ruptcy, United States commissioners, and conciliation com­
missioners and supervising conciliation commssioners un­
der § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act.
   The report of the Director emphasized the obligation of
the federal courts to take the utmost care to select as pro­
bation officers only those presenting credentials which give
reasonable assurance of competence. The report drew at­
tention to the importance of compliance with the standards
for selecting probation officers approved by the Confer­
ence at its September Session, 1942. At this session the
Conference recommended that in the appointments of pro­
bation officers the appointees should be required to possess
the following qualifications: (1) exemplary character; (2)
good health and vigor; (3) an age at the time of appoint­
ment within the range of 24 to 45 years inclusive; (4) a
liberal education of not less than collegiate grade, evidenced
by a bachelor's degree (B.A. or B.S.) from a college of
 recoe,rnized standing, or its equivalent; (5) experience in
 personnel work for the welfare of others of not less than
 two years, or two years of specific training for welfare
 work (a) in a school of social service of recognized stand­
 ing, or (b) in a professional course of a college or univer­
 sity of recognized standing. The report pointed out that
 of the 24 probation officers appointed during 1945 by the
 federal courts throughout the country, only twelve, or one­
 half, had had the education, and only sixteen, or two-thirds,
 the type of experience recommended by the Judicial Con­
 ference.
  Representation of District Judges in the Judicial Con­
ference.-Judge Phillips, chairman of the Committee on
the Representation of District Judges in the Judicial Con­
ference of Senior Circuit Judges, submitted its report. The
                                   9

     report referred to the responses made by the district judges
     to the plan proposed by the committee, as reported to the
     Conference at its 1944 session, for increased participation
     by district judges in the work of committees of the Confer­
     ence concerning matters affecting the district courts. The
     committee reported that, as directed by the Judicial Con­
     ference at its September session, 1944, the earlier report
     had been printed and copies delivered to the senior circuit
     judges for distribution to the district judges in their re­
     spective circuits, with the request that they study the report
     and advise their senior circuit judges of their views. The
     committee reported that ninety-eight of the district judges
     have expressly approved the plan, that twelve of the dis­
     trict judges expressly disapproved it, and that eleven think
     the present method of representation is adequate. Assum­
     ing that the seventeen district judges in the Ninth Circuit
     and the fourteen district judges in the Seventh Circuit, who
     did not express their views, oppose the plan, the committee
     reported that the number of district judges who disapproved
     the plan would be fifty. In the light of this expression of
     views by the district judges, the committee recommended
     the adoption of the plan revised as follows:
        (1) That whenever proposed legislation affecting the
     district judges or the district courts comes before the Judi­
     cial Conference, it be submitted to a committee in which the
     district judges shall have at least equal representation; (2)
     that each Circuit Conference create a legislative committee
     to be appointed in such manner as the Circuit Conference
     shall determine; (3) that the report of the Judicial Confer­
     ence conmlittee, including any draft of bills to be recom­
     mended to Congress, be submitted to such legislative com­
     mittees ,.. i. th the request that each legislative committee
     consider the same and report its recommendations with
     respect thereto to the next Circuit Conference in its circuit;
     (4) that each of such Circuit Conferences give consideration
     to the report of the Judicial Conference committee, the draft
     bill, and the report of its legislative committee, and forward

-
   to the Judicial Conference committee such views, sugges­
                              10 

tions, and criticisms of. the ,Judicial Conference committee
report and draft of bill as it desires to submit; (5) that such
expression of views, suggestions, and criticisms forwarded
to the Judicial Conference committee by the several Circuit
Conferences, with an accurate summary thereof, be sub­
mitted, with the report of the ,Judicial Conference com­
mittee, to the Judicial Conference; (6) that the Judicial
Conference take no definite action and make no recommen­
dation with respect to the report of its committee and any
draft of bills until the foregoing procedure has been car­
ried out; (7) that the .Iudicial Conference in forwarding
to the Congress its recommendations with respect to such
matter and Brafts of bills shall advise the Congress of the
views expressed with respect thereto by the several Circuit
Conferences.
   The Conference adopted the report, as amended, and in­
structed the Director to circulate copies of it among the
district and circuit judges.         addition the Conference
by resolution adopted the general policy of consulting the        .""'"
district judges whenever it is reasonably possible to do so
before taking any action which affects the interests of the
district courts whether or not such action relates to pro­
posed legislation.                                          ­
  Court Reporters.-The Judicial Conference considered
with care the recommendations of the district judges and of
representatives of the reporters, with respect to several pro­
posed changes both in the salaries of reporters and in their
transcript rates It secured a ruling of the Comptroller
General of the United States on the question whether
part II of title V of the Federal Employees Pay Act of
1945 (Public Law 106 of the 79th Congress), 59 Stat. 295,
applies to the salaries (exclusive of fees for transcripts)
of the official reporters of the United States District Courts.
The Comptroller General ruled" that the action of the Judi­
cial Conference in fixing the salaries to be paid court re­
porters was based largely upon the cost of similar services
in the locality, that is, in accordance with "prevailing
wages' and that the action and authority of the Conference
                                     11
       in adjusting the compensation of court reporters from time
       to time constitute 'similar administrative authority' to a
       wage board within the purview of § l02c of the Federal Em­
       ployees Pay Act", 59 Stat. 295, 296, and concluded that for
       these reasons the Act had no application to court reporters.
       Despite this ruling and while recognizing that certain in­
       equities may, and probably do, exist in the rates of com­
       pensation of reporters, the Conference was of the opinion
       that, except in a few particular instances, the salary and
       transcript rates should continue at their present level for
       an experimental or trial period of one year, until the infor­
       mation required to be filed with the Administrative Office
       as to the attendance of the reporters in court, the transcripts
       furnished and fees charged, as well as the reporters' re­
        ceipts and expenses, could be collected and analyzed. ·With­
        out such information the Conference felt that it did not
       have sufficient data on which to make a detailed revision
        either of the transcript rates or salaries of reporters.
           The Conference adopted two general changes in tran­
,.-1    script rates. It ruled that the transcript rate approved for
        copies applies only to carbon copies made coincidentally
        with the original transcript, and that whenever a transcript
        has been prepared on the order of one party and thereafter
        another party orders a transcript of the same testimony
        which it is necessary to re-type, the reporter shall receive
        for such re-typed copy the rate prescribed for the original.
        The Conference further decided that the rates for daily
        copy may be fixed by agreement between the party ordering
        it and the reporter, subject to the approval of the district
        court, but not to exceed in any case twice the rate for regular
        copy.
           After receiving the assurance of the reporters present
        at the conference that shorthand notes could be transcribed
        by a reporter oHier than the one who wrote them, the Con­
        ference recommended that Congress amend the Court Re­
         porter Act so as to permit the reporter to file his short­
         hand notes of the pleas and proceedings on arraignment
                              12 

and sentence without transcribing them, unless and until
so directed by the court.
  The Conference approved the transcript fees at the rates
approved at its September Session, 1944, except for the
following changes, which were thought to be required by the
special conditions prevailing in the districts affected:
                                                   Additional
            District        Original    1st Copy    Copies
Fourth Circuit
  North Carolina, Eastern    371h¢        121h¢       121h¢
  North Carolina, Western    371h¢        121h¢       121h¢
Fifth Circuit
  Georgia, Southern          30¢          15¢         15¢
Seventh Circuit
  Iilinois, Northern         40¢          15¢         15¢
'l'enth Circuit
    Oklahoma, Eastern        40¢          15¢         12Y2¢
  "With respect to reporters' salaries only the following
changes were made:
  For the Western District of Arkansas: one reporter to
act also as secretary to the judge, at $4,500, or one reporter
at $3,600;
  E'or the Middle District of Georgia: one reporter, to act
also as secretary to the judge, at $5,000;
  For the Western District of Louisiana: one reporter, at
$5,000 ;
  For the Southern District of Mississippi: one reporter,
to act also as secretary to the judge, at $5,000;
  For the Eastern and Western Districts of Missouri: one
reporter, to serve also as secretary to Judge Duncan, at
$3,500, with authorization to him to employ temporary re­
porters when sitting in Sf. Louis and Kansas City on a per
diem basis at a cost not exceeding $3,000 a year, and with
authorization to employ temporary reporters when sitting
elscwhere in the Districts at a cost not exceeding $500 a
year.
                                        13
             The Conference was of the opinion that the examiners
          for the Department of Justice should be requested to in­
          clude the accounts of the reporters in their examination of
          the offices of the courts. It also ruled that under the statute
          the expense of the telephone service of the reporters is to
          be paid by them and is not to be compensated by the gov­
          ernment.
           . The committee on court reporters with such additional
          members as might be appointed by the Chief Justice, was
          requested to consider further the salaries and transcript
          rates fixed for reporters and any other matters arising in
          relation to the court reporting system and to report its
          recommendations to the Conference.
            Salar-ies of Supporting Judicia.l Personnel.-The Confer­
          ence received the report of the Committee on Salaries of the
          Supporting Personnel of the courts, presented by Judge
          Biggs, chairman of the committee. rrhe report showed that
          in the three years in which the committee has been function­
,".-/ 	   ing the standards of compensation of the principal classes
          of salaried personnel of the courts (except the judges), em­
          ployees in the clerks offices, law clerks, and secretaries of
          judges, librarians of the Circuit Courts of Appeals, and
          probation officers and clerks, have been substantially in­
          creased. The Conference adopted the following statement
          with respect to the administration of the appropriation for
          miscellaneous salaries in the 1946 Appropriation Act:
                  "Pursuant to the provision of the act creating the
               Administrative Office of the 'United States Courts {28
               'U. S. C. 446) that the Director shall exercise his
               powers 'under the supervision and direction of the
               conference of senior circuit judges', the Director laid
               before the Conference for its advice a number of ques­
               tions which have arisen in relation to the administra­
               tion of the appropriation for miscellaneous salaries
                in the judiciary appropriation act of 1946. After full
                discussion and consideration the Conference unani­
                mously arrived at the conclusions expressed in the
                following statement which it adopted and directed to
                be communicated promptly to the circuit and district
                judges:
                         14
   "We are of the opinion that the classification of
secretaries and law clerks is to be determined by the
appointing judge, subject to review by the judicial
council of the circuit if requested by the Director;
that such classification is not to be determined arbi­
trarily but is to be fixed on the basis of the standards
of qualifications recommended by the committee on
salaries of supporting personnel for the United States
courts and approved by the Judicial Conference, an
abridgement of which appears in the report of the
hearings before the Committee on Appropriations to
accompany H. R. 2603, Report No. 333, 79th Congress,
1st Session, House of Representatives. This conclu­
sion is supported by the legislative history. It follows
from the fact that the abridgement of such standards
is set forth in the report of the hearings mentioned
above and provision is made by the statute, 59 Stat.
169, 199, for review by the judicial councils of the
circuits.
   "It is our opinion that in fixing such classifications,
such standards should be reasonably but not narrowly
construed and that substantial equivalents of the enu­
merated qualifications may be considered by the judge
fixing the classification. This, we think, follows from
the language of the committee report stating that the
 purpose is 'to suggest to the judges standards of
qualifications. '
   "vVe find nothing in the Judiciary Appropriation
 Bill for 1946 nor in the standards adopted that re­
 stricts the classification of a secretary or a law clerk
 to one grade above his present classification. We think
 he may be advanced to such grade as his qualifications
 measured substantially by the standards referred to
 above justify.
    "It is further our opinion that grade Caf-8 is not
 limited to secretaries of senior circuit or district
 judges. Nothing in the statement of qualifications or
 in the abridgement in the committee report justifies
 or requires such a restriction, and there is no sugges­
 tion of such a limitation in the body of the report.
                                  15 

          , , We are further of the opinion that the beginning
        salary of a secretary or law clerk newly appointed, or
        one advanced to a higher grade, should be fixed at
        the entrance rate for that grade, provided, however,
        that no law clerk or secretary shall be reduced in
        salary by reason of reclassification. We believe that
        in determining classifications it will be a wise policy
        and, in the long run, for the benefit of the supporting
        personnel of the courts, that the judges act conserva­
        tively and fix classifications that can be fully justified."
      A plan for within-grade promotions for the supporting
    personnel of the United States Courts was submitted by
    the Director and approved by the Conference, with a res­
    ervation permitting additions or changes in the future
    when approved by the Conference. The plan was designed
    mainly to conform to changes made in the system of
    promotions for personnel under the Classification Act of
    1923, as amended, by the Federal Employees Pay Act of
    1945. The plan applies to the administrative personnel of
    the United States circuit courts of appeals and the United
    States district courts, and relates to promotional increases
    of salary within the grades of the positions. and not to
    increases in salary resulting from changes in the grades.
       Bailiffs.-Judge Maris, Chairman of the Committee on
    Bailiffs, presented the final report of the committee, in­
    forming the Conference that the bill recommended by the
    committee and approved by the Conference to revive the
    office of court crier had been enacted and that $200,000 had
    been appropriated for the salaries of criers for the fiscal
    year ending June 30, 1946. The committee, having com­
    pleted its assignment, was discharged with the thanks of
    the Conference.
       Bankruptcy Administration.-Judge Phillips presented
    the report of the Committee on Bankruptcy Administra­
    tion, supplementing its report for 1943 and 1944. The re­
    port noted with deep regret the death of Judge Jenney,
    who, as a member ()f the committee, had contributed much
-   of his time and fine talents to its work.
                             16 

   It also reported that hvo referees' salary bills were
introduced in the House of Representatives during the 79th
Congress, H. R. 33, following closely the pattern of earlier
bills, and H. R. 3338, incorporating the recommendations
made by the committee in its 1943 and 1944 reports, except
that instead of striking out ~ 34(b) entirely, it substituted
for the language of that section in the earlier bills, the
following:
      "b. Reappointment.- A referee shall be reap­
    pointed upon the expiration of the term of his office,
    unless there is cause for not reappointing him by rea­
    son of incompetency, misconduct, or neglect of duty:
    Provided, however, that, in the case of a part-time
    referee, an additional cause for not reappointing him
    shall be that his services are not needed."
A hearing on these bills was held by a subcommitee of
the House Judiciary Committee in Washington on June
25 and 26, 1945, and the Conference was informed that the
subcommittee had recommended to the full committee that          ""­
it report H R. 3338 favorably with but a slight amendment.        ..
(The full committee later reported favorably a new bill,
H. R. 4160, containing all the agreed changes, ,vhich passed
the House on October 24, 1945, and is now pending in the
Senate before the Judiciary Committee of that body.)
   A draft of a proposed bill for making discharges condi­
tional in certain cases, reported by the committee at the
1944 meeting of the Judicial Conference, was submitted
during the year for consideration of the circuit and dis­
trict judges. The Conference, in conformity with the ad­
vice of the committee, declined to recommend the enact­
ment of this legislation until consideration of the Referees'
Salary bill by the Congress has been concluded.
   The committee renewed its recommendation, made in its
1944 report, that the ,Judicial Conference urge the adop­
tion of an amendment to the Bankruptcy Act which will
stop the running of interest and penalties on all tax claims,
as of the date of the filing of the petiti?,n in bankruptcy or
                                 17 

    debtor proceedings. The Conference requested the Direc­
    tor of the Administrative Office to submit a draft bill to
    the Judiciary Committees of the Senate and House of Hep­
    resentatives to carry out this recommendation.
       The committee renewed its recommendations of the pro­
    posals to amend ~§ 64(a) (1) and 64(a) (4) of the Bank­
    ruptcy Act. The Conference approved these recommenda­
    tions and requested the Director to forward them to the
    chairmen of the .Judiciary Committees of the Senate and
    House of Hepresentatives, together with drafts of the pro­
    posed amendments as set forth in item IV of the 1944 re­
    port of the committee.
       The committee submitted a proposed amendment to
    ~ 64(b) of the Bankruptcy Act, and the Conference di­
    rected that this proposal be submitted for the considera­
    tion and comments of the circuit and district judges.
       The committee reported that it had studied the proposal
    to redefine the summary jurisdiction to adjudicate adverse
    claims to property claimed by a receiver or trustee in bank­
    ruptcy, and decided that the summary jurisdiction should
    be enlarged but that such legislation should not be recom­
    mended while the Heferees' Salary bill is being considered
    by the Congress.
       The entire report was received, the recommendations
     of the committee were approved by the Conference, and
     the committee was continued.
      Appellate Review of Orders of the Interstate Commerce
    Comission and Certain Other Administrative Orders.­
    .Tudge Phillips, the chairman of the Committee on Appel­
    late Review of Orders of the Interstate Commerce Com­
    mission and other Administrative Orders, submitted the
    report of the committee. The committee had revised the
    bill, presented at the last Conference, to review the orders
    of the Interstate Commerce Commission, giving to the cir­
    cuit courts of appeals, and the United States Court of
    Appeals for the District of Columbia, exclusive juris­
    diction to enjoin or set aside certain specified orders of the

-   Interstate Commerce Commission, any further review to
                             18 

be by writ of certiorari in the Supreme Oourt, and provid­
ing that, with certain exceptions, the review should be on
the record made before the Oommission. The Oonference
considered the report and approved the revised bill, and
recommended its adoption by Oongress.
   The committee also reported that it had prepared a pro­
posed bill to provide for the review of certain orders of
the Secretary of Agriculture under the Packers and Stock­
yards Act, 1921, and the Perishable Agricultural Oommodi­
ties Act, 1930, certain orders by the Federal Oommunica­
tions Oommission under the Oommunications Act of 1934,
and certain orders by the United States Maritime Oommis­
sion under the Shipping Act of 1916. In accordance with
the recommendation of the committee, the Oonference re­
quested the committee to continue its study of these pro­
posals and to submit them for the consideration and com­
ments of the circuit and district judges.
    Judge Maris submitted the recommendations of the same
 committee with respect to the bill reported at the Septem­
 ber, 1943, session of the Oonference, to regulate the pro­
 cedure for the designation of the judges sitting in district
 courts of three judges. The proposed bill had been
 submitted to the circuit and district judges, had received
 the approval of the judges who had commented on it, and
 had been approved by the Oonference at its Sept'~mber,
 1943 session. Since it was apparent that the legislation
 for review of orders of the Interstate Oommerce Oommis­
 sion cannot be made applicable to all types of orders of
 the Oommission, and that the district courts of three judges
 will be retained to review certain limited classes of orders,
 the committee recommended that the draft bill should be
 approved regardless of the action taken on the proposed
 legislation for review of orders of the Interstate Oom­
 merce Oommission and other agencies. The Oonfprenc('
 approved the proposed draft bill, with two changes recom­
 mended by the committee. The first amends the venue
  section, ~ 207, of the .Tudicial Oode to read as follows:
                                  19 

            "Except as otherwise provided in the Act entitled
         'An Act to Regulate Commerce', approved "F'ebruary
         4, 1887, as amended, the venue of any suit brought to
         enforce, suspend, or set aside, in whole or in part,
         any order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
         shall be in the judicial district wherein is the residence
         of the party or any of the parties bringing the suit
         or wherein such party or any of such parties has its
         principal office."
     The second strikes out the last two sentences of the pro­
     posed § 209 of the Judicial Code so as to make the Fed­
     eral Rules of Civil Procedure applicable to the methods of
     service of process and the period of time for filing answers.
        Treatment of Insane Persons Charged wdh Crime in
     the Federal Cmwts.-The Conference received and ap­
     proved the report of the committee on this subject, sub­
     mitted by Judge Magruder, its chairman.
        The committee reported that it had under consideration
-/   proposals for legislation dealing 'with procedure for de­
     termining the sanity of an accused person. The committ(~e
     presented a revised draft of a bill, prepared in 1944, deal­
     ing with cases where insanity occurs after conviction, and
     with cases of insane persons whose sentences have ex­
     pired. But the committee did not give its final approval
     to the draft in its present form, suggesting that it be cir­
     culated among the circuit and district judges so that their
     suggestions may be considered. The bill sets forth a
     procedure for raising the issue of the mental competence
     of an accused and for its determination; it makes pro­
     vision for the disposition of an accused who has been
     judicially determined to be incompetent before trial;
     it provides a procedure for setting aside a conviction
     where the issue of mental competency has not been raised
      or determined before or during the trial, and where
     mental incompetency becomes apparent after the defendant
      has been committed to prison. Further, the bill makes
      provision for the commitment of any insane prisoner
-
r

                                  20
    whose sentence is about to expire and whose release might
    endanger "the safety of the officers, currency, domain or
    other interests of the United States." The draft makes
    no provision for "psychiatric examinations as a matter
    of course in a class of cases, to be dett'rmiued, ill ",rhich
    the offenders are most apt to be insane", n matter which
    the committee was directed to consider further by ihe
    action of the Judicial Conference of last year. The com­
    mittee reported that a study of the available federal sta­
    tistics of the incidence of insanity revealed no significant
    differences referable to the classes of offenses committed.
      Regulation of Adm.'i.ssion to the Bar of the Federal Courts
    by Unifor1n, Rules.-The Conference received the prelim­
    inary report of the Committee on Regulation of Admis­
    sion to the Bar of the Federal Courts by Uniform Rules.
    The committee recommended that it be authorized to pur­
    sue its study of the subject, and to stimulate discussion of
    it at circuit conferences and bar association meetings. T):1is
    action was taken, and the committee was continued.
      Judicial Statistics.-Judge C. E. Cla)'k suhmitted the
                                                                     ­
    report of the Committee on Judicial Statistics, of which
    he is chairman. The report outlined the purpose and func­
    tion of statistical studies in the federal judicial system,
    pointing out that a purpose of creating the adminis­
    trative Office was to make it an agency for gathering
    and publishing accurate information concerning the work
    of the federal courts under the direction of the Judicial
    Conference. The report indicated the great practical util­
    ity of comparative statistical studies showing the nature
    and extent of the judicial business in the district courts,
    and pointed out that other functions of judicial statistics
    are to furnish information bearing upon procedural
    changes and improvements as well as to give information
    of a more general historical and sociological nature. The
    report dealt with the usefulness of the statistics compiled
    by the Administrative Office and the methods of reporting
    them employed by that office. The committee was of the
                                   21 



-    opinion that it could be of assistance to the statistical di­
     vision of the Administrative Office in pursuing its objec­
     tives and suggested that with the aid of expert assistance,
     which it might call on in the future, it could bring to the
     work of the division the benefit of an outside viewpoint,
     which would be helpful. The Conference continued the
     committee and recommended that its report be discussed
     and considered at the circuit conferences.
       The Representation of Indigent Litigants in the Fed­
     eral Com'ts.---:-The supplemental report of the Committee
     to Consider the Adequacy of Existing Provisions for the
     Protection of the Rights of Indigent Litigants in the Fed­
     eral Courts, of which Judge Augustus N. Hand is chair­
     man, was submitted to the Conference. The Conference
     approved the bill recommended by the committee at the
     1944 Conference with the follmving changes, suggested by
     the committee: that § 4 of the bill relating to\ service of
     subpoenas by the marshal, without charge, be omitted; that
     where indigent defendants have such conflicting interests
     that they cannot properly be represented by a public de­
     fender, the Court be authorized to assign separate counsel
     to one or more of them and to allow compensation to such
     separate counsel at not more than $25.00 per day for time
     necessarily and properly expended in connection with the
     defense; and that in districts where the allowance is on a
     per diem basis, the per diem maximum compensation may,
     in the discretion of the court, include not only time spent in
     actual trial but in preparation for trial. The committee did
     not recommend any legislation to provide compensation at
     the present time for attorneys for indigent persons in civil
     cases, because it considered that experiments should be
     made by the federal courts in the criminal field before under­
     taking the compensation from government funds of counsel
     for parties in civil suits. The committee was continued and
     asked to consider the present provisions of the Code with
     respect to cases in forma paupe1"is, particularly appeals


-

                             22 

in forma pauperis, and to consider the matter of print~ng
the record in the circuit courts of appeals in in forma
pauperis cases.
  B1tdget Estimates.-The Oonference approved the esti­
mates of expenditures and appropriations necessary for
the maintenance of the United States courts and the Ad­
ministrative Office for the :F'iscal year 1947, as submitted
by the Director, and approved the estimates for deficiency
appropriations for fees of commissioners for the fiscal
year 1945 and for salaries of criers fo'r the fiscal year
1946.
  Sentencing a'nd Parole of l?ederal Offe111ders.-The Oon­
ference directed the Oommittee on Punishment for Orime
to report a separate bill to make effective the provisions
affecting youth offenders contained in the Sentencing Bill
heretofore approved by the Oonference, and to submit such
report and bill for the consideration of the circuit and
district judges.
  Clerks' Fees.-The Oonference approved the following
recommendations, as amended, contained in the report of
the Oommittee on Olerks' Fees, of which Judge Biggs is
chairman:
      "Fees, Clerks of the United States Court of Ap­
    peals for the District of Colun~bia, and the United
    States Circuit Courts of Appeals.-The Judicial Oon­
    ference of Senior Oircuit Judges, pursuant to the
    provisions of the Act entitled 'An Act to amend the
    Act entitled "An Act to amend the Act creating the
    circuit court of appeals in regard to fees and costs,
    and for other purposes", approved F'ebruary 19, 1897'
    (29 Stat. 536; 28 U. S. 0 543), approved September
    27, 1944, (58 Stat. 743, 28 U. S.O. Supp. IV 543),
    prescribes the following schedule of fees to be paid
    for services performed by clerks of the United States
    Oourt of Appeals for the District of Oolumbia and
    the United States Oircuit Oourts of Appeals on or
                                 23 



-       after January 1, 1946, except when the services are
        performed on behalf of the United States:
           "1. ]'or docketing a case on appeal or review or
        docketing any other proceeding, $25.00.
           I' 2. Preparing the record for the printer and super­
        vising the printing (\vhere required by rule or order
        of court), for each printed page of the record and
        index, $.25, Provided, That the charge for any single
        record and index shall not exceed $250.00.
           "3. For. making a copy (except a photographic
        reproduction) of any record or paper, and compari­
        son thereof, 40 cents per page of 250 words or frac­
        tion thereof; for comparing for certification a copy
         (except a photographic reproduction) of any transcript
        of record, entry, record or paper when such copy is
        furnished by the person requesting its certification,
        10 cents for each page of 250 words or fraction
        thereof.
           "For a photographic reproduction of any record or
        paper, and the comparison thereof, 25 cents for each
        page; and for comparing with the original thereof
        any photographic reproduction of any record or paper
        not made by the clerk, 5 cents for each page.
           I' 4. For every search of the records of the court
        and certifying the result of the same, $1.00.
           "N 0 other fees for services than those above pre­
        scribed shall be charged or collected by the clerks,
        provided however that nothing herein shall be con­
        strued to prevent the clerk of any court of appea.ls,
        ",ith the approval of the court, from charging and
        collecting a fee for each printed copy of an opinion
        as shall be fixed by the court.
           "Fees for services of the clerks whenever per­
        formed      all cases docketed prior to January 1, 1Q46
        shall be determined in accordance with the rates now
        in force."
      The Conference adopted the following recommendatious
    of the committee with respect to miscellaneous fees of the
    clerks of the District Courts:




                    •

                         24 

   « Miscellaneou,s Fees) Clerks of the United States
District Courts.-The Judicial Conference of Senior
Circuit Judges, pursuant to section 8 of the Act en­
titled' An Act to provide fees to be charged by clerks
of the district courts of the United States', approved
February 11, 1925, as amended by the Act appro):ed
September 27, 1944, (58 Stat. 744, 28 U. S. C. Supp.
IV, sec. 555), prescribes the following schedule of
fees to be paid for miscellaneous services performed
by clerks of U ni ted States District Courts on and
after January 1, 1946, except when on behalf of the
United States, in addition to the fees for services
rendered in cases or proceedings:
   "1. For filing and indexing any paper, not in a
case or proceeding, 25 cents.
   "2. For making a copy (except a photographic re­
production) of any record or paper, and comparison
thereof, except a copy of a writ for service on a party
in a suit or action covered in section 2 of the Act en­
titled' An Act to provide fees to be charged by clerks
of the district courts of the United States', approved
1<'ebruary 11, 1925, as amended by the Act approved
September 27, 1944, (58 Stat. 743, 28 U. S. C. Supp.
IV, sec. 549), 40 cents per page of 250 words or frac­
tion thereof; for comparing for certification a copy
(except a photographic reproduction) of any tran­
script of record, entry, record or paper, except a copy
of a writ for service on a party in a suit or action cov­
ered in said section 2, when such copy is furnished by
the person requesting its certification, 10 cents for
each page of 250 words or fraction thereof.
   "For a photographic reproduction of any record or
paper, and the comparison thereof, 25 cents for each
page; and for comparing with the original thereof
any photographic reproduction of any record or paper
not made by the clerk, 5 cents for each page.
   "3. 1<'01' filing a prmcipe or requisition for and
certifying the result of a search of the records of the
court for judgments, decrees, other instruments, suits
pending, and bankruptcy proceedings, 50 cents for
each name.
                             25
      "4. For preparation and mailing notices in bank­
    ruptcy 10 cents each for the first 20 notices and 5 cents
    for each additional notice; Provided, That this fee
    shall cover and include all services and expenses in
    connection therewith: And provided further, That such
    fee shall not be deemed to be included in any other fee
    for services in bankruptcy proceedings.
      "5. For admission of attorneys to practice, $2.00
    each. This fee shall include a certificate of admis­
    sion. "
    Removal of Civil Disabilities of Probationers Satisfying
the Conditions of their Probation.-The Conference received
the report of the Committee on the Removal of Civil Disa­
bilities of Probationers Fulfilling the Terms of their Proba­
 tion, presented by Judge Phillips, and approved a new
 draft of the bill heretofore approved by the Conference,
 making amendments to the former draft desired by the
 Attorney General.
  Unifortn Time for Appeals from District Cf)'urts to Oir­
cuit Courts of Appeals.-The Conference approved an
addition to the 1944 recommendation of the Committee
on Uniform Time for Appeals from District Courts to
Circuit Courts of Appeals, of which Judge Stone is chair­
man, providing that agencies of the United States be in­
cluded with the United States in the provision allowing 60
days for appeal. It was also the sense of the Conference
that the recommendation of the 1944 session of the Con­
ference, allowing 60 days to appeal, applies to every liti­
gant in suits to which the United States is a party.
  Expedition of Cases.-The Conference, on the recom­
mendation of the Committee on Expedition of Cases, of
which Judge Stone is chairman, adopted the following
resolution:

      "It is the sense of this Conference that, whenever
    there is an appeal in a case wherein the trial judge
    deems it is, for any reason, to the public interest that
    the appeal be speedily determined, he may, in his dis-




                                                                j
                              26
    cretion, notify the appellate court of the situation and
    of the reasons for expedition. Thereupon, the appel­
    late court may treat such notice as in the nature of a
    motion to advance and shall promptly dispose thereof
    as seems to it proper. Further, it is the sense of this
    Conference that, where litigation involving the same
    issue or issues of validity or of construction of the
    same United States statute or statutes is pending
    before different judges in the same district, arrange­
    ments be made (unless substantial rights in other like
    cases would be prejudiced thereby) for the speedy de­
    termination and appeal of a typical case and that the
    court to which the appeal is taken be promptly noti­
    fied of the situation by the trial judge so that a final
    determination of such issues may be expedited."
   Codification and Revision of the Criminal and Judicial
Codes.-The Conference received and approved the re­
port of the Committee on the Codification and Revision of
the Criminal and Judicial Codes, submitted by Judge Maris.
The committee concluded that since the codification and re­
vision of the Criminal Code had been completed and re­
ported to the House in the form of a bill, the committee
                                                                -

could perform no useful service in connection with the codi­
fication and revision of that Code. With respect to the
revision of the Judicial Code it stated its purposes as fol­
lows: (a) to confer with the revisers with respect to any
questions which they desire to submit to the committee re­
garding the proper treatment in the revision of existing
statutory prO'llisions which appear to be obsolete, ambiguous
or inappropriate or which they think may require modifica­
tion for some other reason, (b) to act as a clearing house in
receiving from the members of the federal judiciary and
transmitting to the revisers suggestions for the revision of
certain statutory provisions deemed to be archaic, am­
biguous or inappropriate, and (c) to transmit to the re­
visers such suggestions for revision as may be directed by
the Judicial Conference.
                                 27 

      Postwar build'ing plans for the Quarters of the United
    States CMlds.- The Oonference adopted the following
    statement with reference to the need for improvements in
    the quarters of the Oourts:
          "On account of the virtual stoppage of building
        construction and alterations for civilian purposes
        during the war years, the quarters for the federal
        courts in many locations have become seriously in­
        adequate. There is urgent need for their enlargement
        and improvement. In some cases new buildings are
        required, in others expansion, remodeling and modern­
        ization of the present quarters. The Conference
        structs the Director to obtain from the courts current
        information in reference to their needs of this nature
        and to place it before the appropriate authorities
        (whenever it· has not already been done) and to use
        his utmost efforts to secure, as early as possible, suit­
        able action providing for these needs. The Oonfer­
        ence urges upon the executive agencies responsible
        for the erection and operation of buildings, the Oon­
        gress, and all others concerned the necessiay of con­
        venient and appropriate quarters for the courts, in
        order to enable them to function to their fullest effi­
        ciency. Such quarters should include accommoda­
        tions for all the officers of the courts including the
        United States commissioners, referees in bankruptcy,
        and court reporters."
      Disposit·ion of old records of the United States Courts.­
    The Oonference received the report of the Oommittee on
    the Disposition of Old Records of the United States Oourts,
    submitted by Referee Bundschu, in the absence of the
    chairman, Referee Kruse. The Oonference requested the
    committee to amend its recommendations so as to provide
    for the permanent retention of all orders for sale of real
    estate and orders of confirmation of such sales, and, as so
    amended, to submit the report and recommendations to
    the circuit and district judges.
-
                             28
   Further Legislation Recormnended.-The Conference re­
affirmed its approval of the bills heretofore recommended
by the Judicial Conference with respect to applications for
habeas corpus in the federal courts and concerning United
States commissioners, and the bill extending the present
retirement privilege of specified judges of the Territory of
Hawaii to the district judges of the other territorieR and
insular possessions, S. 565. The Conference also reaf­
firmed its approval of the recommendations submitted at
the 1944 session of the Conference with respect to tort
claims against the United States and the procedure for
their prosecution, including the recommendation that the
appellate jurisdiction of suits upon such claims be exclu­
sively in the Courts of Appeals, subject to further reyiew
upon certiorari granted by the United States Supreme
Court.
  Transfer of Jurisdictions for Supervision of P1"obation­
ers from the Court of the District Originally Having Juris­
diction to the District of Supervision.-The Conference au­
thorized the Director to draw a bill to empower the district
courts in their discretion to transfer jurisdiction from the
                                                                -' 

court of the district originally having jurisdiction of any
probationer, to the district of supervision, and to submit
the bill to the circuit and district judges.
   Keeping Offices of the Courts Open on Saturday Fore­
noons.-It was the sense of the Conference that the clerks'
offices, and the offices of the probation officers of all the
federal courts, also the district attorneys' and marshals'
offices, should be kept open on Saturday forenoons, with
such service provided in the buildings occupied as is satis­
factory to the judges of the courts concerned.
  A Plan for a Loan Service of Records and Briefs of
Cases in the Courts of Appeals.-The Conference author­
ized the Director in response to a request from the Law
Librarian of the Library of Congress to invite the coop­
eration of the clerks of the circuit courts of appeals in a
plan being furthered by the Law Librarian of the Library
                                   29
     of Congress, to establish a limited loan service for records
     and briefs in cases in the courts of review of the nation
     and states.
       Disposition of the Records and Law Library of the
     Former United States Court for China.-The Director pre­
     sented a recommendation of Honorable Milton J. Helmick,
     the last judge of the United States Court for China, which
     ceased to exist on May 20, 1943 in consequence of the treaty
     between the United States and China abolishing extra­
     territorial jurisdiction of the United States in China.
     Judge Helmick proposed that arrangements be made with
     the Department of State for the custody and maintenance
     by that Department of the records and library of the
     former court in China in such a manner that they wo~ld
     be of service to all persons, Chinese and others, who might
     have occasion to consult them there. The State Depart­
     ment had expressed to the Director in a letter which he

-    reported to the Conference its approval of the proposal
     and its interest in carrying it out. The Conference ap­
     proved the plan in principle and authorized the Director
     in cooperation with the State Department to make the
     necessary arrangements to carry it into effect, including
     any legislation that might be requisite.
          Committees Continued.-The following committees,
       which submitted no written reports, were continued by the
       Conference: the Committee on a Special Court of Patent
       Appeals, the Committee on the Operation of the Jury Sys­
       tem, the Committee on the Library Funds of Certain Cir­
       cuit Courts of Appeals, the Committee on the Trial of
       Petty Offenses by Commissioners or Similar Federal Of­
       ficers, the Committee to Study the       of Pre-Trial Pro­
       cedure in the Federal Courts, and the Committee to Mn­
     . sider the proposal that the statute (18 U. S. C. § 541), be
       amended so as to make the definition of felony depend
       upon the punishment actually inflicted rather than that
-.     which could lawfully be imposed, of which committee Cir­
       cuit Judge Peter Woodbury was appointed chairman, to
                             30 

succeed Circuit Judge Curtis D. Wilbur, retired, and Dis­
trict Judge Henry N. Graven was appointed another
member.
  Committees Appointed.-Pursuant to resolutions of the
Conference the Chief Justice appointed the following com­
mittees with the request that they lodge their reports
with the Director at least thirty days in advance of the
September session of the 1946 Conference: A commit­
tee to study the question whether more effective use of the
assignment procedure can be made and to consider whether
any amendment to the present statutory provisions gov­
erning that procedure is desirable, consisting of: Circuit
Judge Learned Hand, Chairman, Circuit Judge John D.
Martin, District Judges Charles G. Briggle, Thomas F.
Meaney, and J. Waties Waring.

  A committee to consider the practice in some districts of
submission to the court by the United States Attorney of
a trial memorandum in criminal cases "rithout serving a
copy on the defendant or his counsel, consisting of District
Judge W. Calvin Chestnut, Chairman, District Judges
Henry W. Goddard, Thomas M. Kennerly, Paul Leahy,
and Fred M. Raymond.

  A committee to consider the amendments of the Ad­
miralty Rules proposed by the Maritime Law Association
of the United States, consisting of Circuit Judge Thomas
W. Swan, Chairman, District Judges Wayne G. Borah,
John C. Bowen, Phillip Forman, George M. Hulbert, and
Sterling Hutcheson.

  The Chief Justice added as new members to the Court
Reporter Committee District Judge Benjamin C. Dawkins,
Justice James W. Morris, District Judges Adolphus F.
St. Sure and Philip L. Sullivan.

  The Chief Justice appointed District Judge Claude Mc­
Culloch a member of the Committee on Bankruptcy Ad­
ministration.
                            31 

  Advisory Oommittee.-The Conference continued the
committee, consisting of the Chief Justice, Judges Biggs,
Parker and Stone, and Chief Justice Groner, to advise and
assist the Director in the performance of his duties.
  The Conference declared a recess, subject to the call of
the Ohief Justice.
  For the Judicial Conference:
                                    HARLAN   F.   STONE,
                                          Ohief Justice.
