--------_.­




           REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
                             October Session, 1946.
           The Judicial Conference convened, pursuant to 28 U. S. C.
         218, on October 1, 1946, on the call of the Chief Justice, and
         continued in session for four days. The following judges were
         present:
           The Chief Justice, Presiding. 

           District of Columbia, Chief Justice D. Lawrence Groner. 

           First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Calvert Magruder. 

           Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Learned Hand. 

           Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John Biggs, Jr. 

           Fourth Circuit, Circuit Judge Morris A. Soper. 

           Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Samuel H. Sibley. 

           Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Xenophon Hicks. 

           Seventh Circuit, Circuit Judge J. Earl Major. 

           Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone. 

           Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Francis A. Garrecht. 

           Tenth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips. 

           Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker of the Fourth Circuit
         was unable to attend the Conference except for the third and
         fourth days. Judge Soper attended throughout the session.
           Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans of the Seventh Circuit
         was unable to attend because of illness. Judge Major at­
         tended in his place.
           The Chief Justice called the attention of the Conference to
         the death of its Chairman, the late Chief Justice of the United
         States, the Honorable Harlan Fiske Stone, whereupon the fol­
         lowing minute was adopted:
                   Harlan Fiske Stone, the twelfth Chief Justice of the
                United States, and by virtue of that office Chairman of
                the Judicial Conference of Senior Circuit Judges, de­
                parted this life in the City of Washington the 22nd day
                of April, 1946.
                                       (1)
              720319-46-1
                                2


          The members of this Conference wish to testify their
       profound regret in the sad event and their great and
       abiding respect for his memory.
          It is but just to say he was a jurist of great learning
       in the law, whose indefatigable industry led him to ex­
       plore all the sources of the common law and the con­
       stitutional and international law to find precedent and
       justification in support of the reasoning of his great
       mind. In our association with him in the discharge of
       the duties imposed on this Conference he was always
       patient, sympathetic, cooperative, and his guiding hand
       was invariably useful and potent in leading the Con­
       ference to a right conclusion.
          In all of his activities as a lawyer, as a judge, and as
       a public-spirited citizen, he demonstrated an unfailing
       search for truth as the cornerstone of his philosophy, and
       in his long and fruitful life there is not an ignoble
       memory in his path to place and power. No gift that
       nature bestowed was ever wittingly used by him in an
       unworthy cause. His sudden death has brought to each
       of us profound regret. We have lost a great leader and
       the Nation a pure and upright judge.
          We tender to his family our sympathy, and the Secre­
       tary of the Conference is hereby requested to send them
       a copy of this minute.
  Senator Patrick A. McCarran, Chairman of the Judiciary
Committee of the Senate, was unable to attend the Conference
Session due to pressure of official business which necessitated
his absence from the city. Representative Hatton W. Sum­
ners, Chairman of the Judiciary Committee of the House of
Representatives, addressed the Conference on the fourth day
of the Session.
   The Attorney General addressed the Conference on the
fourth day of the Session.
   Henry P. Chandler, Director, Elmore Whitehurst, Assistant
Director, Will Shafroth, Chief, and Leland L. Tolman, Assist­
ant Chief, Division of Procedural Studies and Statistics, Edwin
L. Covey, Chief, Bankruptcy Division, and Richard A. Chap­
pell, Chief, Probation Division, all of the Administrative
Office of the United States Courts, attended the Conference and
aided in its deliberations.
                               3

    On invitation of the Conference, the following federal court
judges were present at various times and participated in Con­
ference discussion: Harold M. Stephens, Associate Justice,
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia;
District Judges James Alger Fee, John C. Knox, Paul J McCor­
mick and James W. Morris.
    Statement of the Attorney General.-The Attorney General
addressed the Conference concerning various matters of im­
portance and interest to the federal judiciary. He reviewed
the progress made during the past year with respect to legis­
lation, particular emphasis being given to the Administrative
Procedure Act, and to Title IV of the Legislative Reorganization
Act of 1946, known as the Federal Tort Claims Act. He stated
that, while this would involve an increase in volume inJpework
 of the courts, the satisfaction of affording a more adequate
 remedy to affected persons would more than compensate for
 the additional burden.
    Attention was called to the fact that, for the first time in
 many years, there were no existing vacancies in any of the
 courts comprising the federal judiciary, and the Conference
was assured that efforts would be continued to have vacancies
 filled promptly.
     A summarization by the Attorney General of the experiences
 gained under the new Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
 indicated very favorable reaction to the Rules from the Bar,
 the Department, and the courts. He commended the ju­
 diciary upon the genuine endeavor it had evidenced to carry
 out the general intent of the Rules, i. e., simplicity of proce­
 dure, fairness in administration, and the elimination of unjusti­
 fiable expense and delay. A few instances in which the
 experiences of the Department reflected difficulty in adminis­
 tration were pointed to and it was stated that the necessary
 steps to secure the proper amendments to remove these difficul­
  ties were being taken.
     The Attorney General then commented upon the desirability
 of securing enactment of legislation heretofore approved by
 the Conference and supported by the Department which had
 not been acted upon by Congress up to the present. Specific
                                 4

mention was made of the federal jury bills providing for
uniform standards of qualification, uniform method of selec­
tion of jurors, improvement in the provisions for jury com­
missions, and increase in the present remuneration for sub­
sistence and expenses of jurors while attending trials; the
Youth Offenders Bill; the Public Defenders Bill; the Habeas
Corpus Procedural and Jurisdictional Bills; and the bills modi­
fying present procedures respecting review of orders of certain
administrative agencies. He stated that the Department was
in full accord with the views of the Conference respecting each
of these proposals, and that it would render every possible assist­
ance in securing their enactment during the next Congress.
   In closing, the Attorney General called the attention of the
Conference to juvenile delinquency and the seriousness of the
problems it presents today. The Department has, for the past
several years, given it the closest of scrutiny, and feels that
some progress toward a solution has been made. He referred
to the so-called Brooklyn Plan, and told of several interesting
and successful instances of its operation. Under this plan, the
juvenile offender, if he gives promise of being amenable to
correction, is placed under supervision directed by the United
                                                                      -

States Attorney, and prosecution is deferred and later dispensed
with if the offender makes a satisfactory record. In this proc­
ess, friendly persons and agencies are drawn upon to the fullest
extent for assistance and counsel to the juvenile. Some courts
have so interested themselves in this plan that they maintain
a standing list of persons who are willing to accept these
juveniles; and religious groups, fraternal organizations, and
civic bodies have evidenced a great interest in sponsoring the
plan and assisting the courts in their placement problems.
The Department believes that much more can be accomplished
through such cooperative measures, and the Attorney General
requested that the Conference authorize the appointment of
a committee to consider the problem in the hope that there may
be devised, not only a workable plan, but a plan that will afford
material opportunities for these unfortunate youngsters.
   Administration of the United States Courts.-Report of the
Director.-The Director submitted to the Conference his
seventh annual report reviewing the activities of the Adminis­
                                5

trative Office for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1946, including
the report of the Division of Procedural Studies and Statistics.
The Conference approved the Director's report and ordered it
released for publication. The Director was authorized to in­
clude additional statistical information, not now available, in
the printed edition of the report to be issued later.
   State of the Dockets of the Federal Courts.-Circuit Courts
of Appeals.-The number of cases filed in the circuit courts
of appeals, among which the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia is included, was about 4 per cent
less than last year. From a high of 3,505 cases filed in these
courts in 1940, there has been a steady decline to 2,627, which
was the number begun in 1946. Over the first half of the last
decade, appeals from administrative agencies increased to reach
a peak in 1942, from which they declined in number until in
1946 they were back at approximately the 1937 level. On the
other hand, appeals from the lower courts, which now account
for 83 per cent of the total business of the circuit courts of ap­
peals, have declined from 2,754 in 1937 to 2,188 in 1946.
   The number of cases disposed of during the last fiscal year
was approximately equal to the number commenced, with the
result that there was but an insignificant change in the number
pending June 30,1946, which was 1,531 as compared with 1,525
a year previous. Almost one-third of the total dispositions were
cases terminated without hearing or submission. Cases heard
or submitted were disposed of slightly more expeditiously than
last year, if the median of 6.8 months in 1946 compared with
7 months in 1945 is taken as a guide. The general promptness
of dispositions in the circuit courts of appeals is indicated by
the median time from hearing or submission to decision or
final order, which was only 1.5 months.
   District Courts.-An increase was registered in the year 1946
in the number of civil cases filed in the United States district
courts; but, as in the previous year, almost half of the cases
were brought by the Office of Price Administration for enforce­
ment of price control and rationing regulations. The trend is
indicated by the following table, which shows the number of
civil cases commenced and terminated annually for the past
                                6

five years and the number pending at the close of each year in
all 1.)nited States district courts:
                                                                          -
                                    Commencerl   Terminated   Pending


Fiscal year ended on June 30:
     1942____ .. __ _                 38,140       38,352       29, 182
     1943__ . ~_~_                    36, 789      36,044       29, 927
     1944__ ~ _.... _~                38,499       37,086       31,340
     1945__ ~ __                      60, 965      52, 300      40, 005
     1946__ _                         67, 835      61,000       46,840


   The phenomenal increase in the number of cases filed during
the past two years is accounted for by the 28,653 civil cases com­
menced by the Office of Price Administration in 1945 and the
31,252 cases in 1946. In most districts only a small percentage
of the cases of this type reaches trial, and in the great majority
of the cases a consent judgment is stipulated. Therefore they
do not constitute the same burden on the courts as the average
civil case, and generally they have not caused the district court
dockets to become congested. If they are subtracted from the
total of civil cases filed, the remainder is smaller than the aver­
age number of civil cases commenced annually in the five-year
period before the war.
   Other civil cases in which the United States is a party were
filed in about the same numbers in 1946 as in 1945; but private
cases increased about one-fourth, indicating a strong trend
toward a return to the prewar volume in private litigation. A
total of 22,141 private cases were filed in 1946, compared with
17,855 in 1945.
    Cases terminated were 6,835 less than cases filed, resulting in
a corresponding increase in cases pending at the end of the fiscal
year. Such an increase would be a signal that dockets were
 becoming congested if it were not for the fact that the pending
case load includes 12,929 Office of Price Administration cases.
Furthermore, the number of cases pending at the end of the
fiscal year 1946 was smaller in proportion to the number com­
 menced than in any of the three years prior to 1945. With few
 exceptions, the dockets in the district courts are in good condi­
 tion and cases are heard and disposed of promptly.
                                       7

          In the median case of those which were tried in the 84 district
       courts within the States of the United States having purely
       federal jurisdiction (excluding land condemnation, forfeiture
       and habeas corpus proceedings), the time required for dispo­
       sition was 9 months, the same period as in the previous year.
       The median time from issue to trial was 5.1 months compared
       with 5.3 months in 1945.
          The number of criminal cases commenced decreased sharply,
       due in large part to reduction in the number of charges brought
       for violation of the internal revenue laws relating to liquor, the
       Selective Service Act and the price control laws and regulations.
       On the other hand, there was a substantial increase in automo­
       bile theft cases and a small increase in proceedings under the
       Juvenile Delinquency Act. A total of 33,203 criminal cases
       were commenced in 1946, compared with 39,429 in 1945. This
       is in marked contrast to the general increase in crime during
       the last year, as evidenced by reports to the Federal Bureau of
       Investigation of "offenses known to the police."
          The number of bankruptcy cases commenced continued the
       decline which began in 1936 but at a reduced rate; and the £lat­
,--/   tening out of this curve indicates that the bottom may have
       been reached. Filings in 1946 were 10,196, compared with
       12,862 in 1945 and with 69,153 in 1935, before the drastic de­
       crease of the last decade began.
          Special Courts.-~Detailed reports of the business of the
       United States Customs Court, the United States Court of Cus­
        toms and Patent Appeals, the Court of Claims and the United
       States Emergency Court of Appeals are contained in the report
       of the Director. In general, it may be stated that there has
       been some increase in business in these special courts; but,
       where the pending case-load has increased, there is no special
       significance in the change which has taken place. The average
       time between hearing and decision is given for the Court of
        Customs and Patent Appeals and the Emergency Court, and in
        neither case does it exceed two months. The Chief Justice of
        the Court of Claims reports the docket of that Court to be in ex­
       cellent shape. The anticipated increase in cases by rea80n of
        the filing of war claims has not yet materialized.
                                8
   Additional Judges.-After consideration of the report of the
Director of the Adlninistrative Office and the statements of the
                                                                      -
several Circuit Judges respecting the work of the courts in their
particular circuits, the Conference renewed recommendations
heretofore made calling for the creation of additional judge­
ships in the Southern District of N ew York, the District of New
Jersey, and, also, that the last additional district judgeship
created for the Eastern and Western Districts of Missouri be
made permanent.1
   In addition, the Conference recommended that provisions be
made for the creation of the following additional judgeships:
          Circuit Courts of Appeals: One additional judge­
        Seventh Judicial Circuit.
          District Courts: An additional judge for the Northern
        District of California, and one for the Western District
        of Pennsylvania (the latter on a temporary basis, with
        provision that the first vacancy occurring within the
        District shall not be filled).
   The proposal to create a new federal judicial district in Cali­
fornia was disapproved.                                               ~
   Court Reporters.-The report and recommendations of the
Committee on the Court Reporting System were submitted to,
and considered by, the Conference. In order to correct inequi­
ties and to provide, in certain instances, more efficient operating
methods, it was ordered that the following changes in basic
salaries, description of positions, and operating arrangements
be made, to become effective if and when the monies necessary
to defray the expense incident thereto are appropriated by the
Congress:
   For the Northern District of New York: The salaries of the
two authorized reporters to be increased from $3,600 to $4,500.
   For the District of Vermont: The salary of the reporter serv­
ing also as clerk of the probation office to be increased from
$3,000 to $4,000.
   For the Eastern District of Virginia: The salary of the re­
porter serving the judge sitting at Norfolk to be increased from
$3,600 to $4,000.
  1   Coni. Rpt., 1945, p. 7.
                                9


   For the Northern District of Florida: The salary of the re­
porter to be increased from $3,000 to $3,600.
   For the Southern District of Florida: The salaries of the
three authorized reporters to be increased from $3,600 to $4,000.
   For the Northern and Southern Districts of Florida: The
salary of the reporter serving the judge for both the Northern
and Southern Districts to be increased from $3,600 to $4,000.
   For the Southern District of Georgia: The salary of the re­
porter serving also as secretary to the judge to be increased
from $4,500 to $5,000.
   For the Western District of Louisiana: The present authori­
zation of one reporter at a salary of $5,000 to be changed to two
reporters, each to receive a salary of $4,000.
   For the Western District of Texas: The position of reporter,
with an authorized salary of $3,600 to be changed to a reporter
serving also as law clerk to the judge, and the salary for the
combined position to be fixed at $5,000; and the salary of the
reporter serving also as secretary to the judge to be increased
from $4,500 to $5,000.
   For the Eastern District of Michigan: The salaries of the
five authorized reporters to be increased from $4,500 to $5,000.
   For the Northern District of Indiana: The salary of the re­
porter to be increased from $3,600 to $4,500.
    For the Southern District of Indiana: The salary of the
reporter to be increased from $3,600 to $4,000.
   For the Eastern District of Arkansas: The present authori­
zation of one reporter acting also as secretary to the judge at a
salary of $4,500 to be changed to authorize one reporter acting
in that capacity alone at a salary of $3,600.
   For the Northern District of Iowa: The salary of the reporter
to be increased from $3,600 to $4,000.
   For the District. of Arizona: The salaries of the two authorized
reporters to be increased from $3,000 to $3,600.
   For the District of Idaho: The salary of the reporter who acts
 also as secretary and law clerk to the judge to be increased
from $4,000 to $5,000.
   For the District of Montana: The salary of the reporter who
acts also as secretary and law clerk to the judge to be increased
     720319-46-----2
                                10

 from $4,000 to $5,000; and one of the two positions now author­
 ized of a reporter acting also as secretary and law clerk to the
 judge to be changed to authorize instead the appointment of
a reporter to act in that capacity alone at a salary of $3,600.
    For the District of Nevada: The salary of the reporter to be
increased from $3,000 to $3,600.
   For the District of Oregon: The salaries of the two authorized
reporters to be increased from $4,000 to $4,500.
   For the Western District of Washington: The salaries of the
reporters for the Western District of Washington (including
the reporter serving Judge Black of the Eastern and Western
Districts of Washington at Seattle) to be increased from $4,000
to $4,500.
   For the District of Colorado: The salary of the reporter to
be increased from $3,600 to $4,000.
   For the District of New Mexico: The position of reporter
acting also as secretary to the judge at a salary of $4,000 to be
changed to authorize instead a reporter to act in that capacity
alone at a salary of $3,600.
   For the District of Hawaii: The salary of the single reporter
now acting to be increased from $4,000 to $4,500, with the un­
derstanding that the other authorized position of reporter at
a salary of $3,600, which is now vacant, will remain unfilled.
   For the District of Puerto Rico: The salary of the reporter
to be increased from $3,600 to $4,000.
   For the District of the Virgin Islands: The salary of the
reporter, who acts also as secretary to the judge, to be increased
from $3,500 to $3,600.
   For the District of Columbia: The salaries of the twelve
authorized reporters to be increased from $4,500 to $5,000.
   The Director of the Administrative Office was instructed to
make every effort to secure promptly appropriation of monies
needed to effectuate the foregoing changes.
   For the purpose of providing adequate court reporting service
for incumbents of recently created judgeships, the Conference
approved and authorized the appointment of the following
additional permanent reporters:
                                       11 


    A fifth reporter for the District of New Jersey, salary $5,000
per annum.
 , A fifth reporter for the Northern District of California,
salary $5,000 per annum.
    A second reporter for the District of Delaware, salary $5,000
per annum.
    A reporter for the Eastern, Middle, and Western Districts
of Pennsylvania, salary $4,000 per annum.
    The description of the court reporting position in the Dis­
trict of the Canal Zone was ordered changed so that the re­
porter shall also act as secretary to the judge.·
  . The Committee informed the Conference that it had been
advised of certain criticisms respecting the qualifications of
some of the reporters appointed under the recent act, and that,
because of this, a review of the qualifications of nearly all the
present reporters in the federal courts was had and the Com­
inittee is "satisfied that almost uniformly the federal court re­
porters are of a high order of reporting ability."
    The Conference affirmed the necessity of compliance in all
cases with the standard of proficiency formulated by it in 1944/
pursuant to the provision of the Court Reporting Act (28
U. S. C. Supp. V, 990), namely:
           That persons appointed as court reporters of the
         United States district courts shall be capable of reporting
         accurately verbatim by shorthand or mechanical means,
         proceedings before the court at a rate of 200 words a
         minute, and furnishing a correct typewritten tran­
         scription of their notes with such promptitude as may be
         requisite. They shall demonstrate familiarity with the
         terminology used in the courts, and shall be persons of
         unquestionable probity.
    The Conference renewed its previous recommendations that,
where applicants for appointment are not known to the court
to be of proved competence or do not have certificates of pro­
ficiency from state authorities or associations whose certificates
are based on merit and generally recognized, the ~ourt appoint
a committee composed of members of the bar, or court re-
 I   Conf. Rpt., Sept., 1944. p. 18.
                                      12 

porters,or both, to conduct an appropriate examination. The
Conference did not deem it advisable to establish a mandatory
plan for examinations but urged the district courts to exercise
care in selecting for court reporters fully qualified persons.
    The definition of "a page of transcript" 3 was amended to read
as follows:
           A page shall consist of 25 lines written on paper 8lj2
        by 11 inches in size, prepared for binding on the left
        side, with 1% inch margin on the left side and o/s inch
        margin on the right side. Typing shall be 10 letters
        to the inch.
    In appeal cases in forma pau,peris in which the transcript
is furnished at government expense, the Director of the Ad­
ministrative Office was instructed to authorize payment for as
many carbons as are required to perfect the appeal by rules of
court; but, when such service will require substantial addi­
tional expense, the Director may report the facts to the Senior
Circuit Judge so that consideration may be given to suspension
of the rule.
    The Conference recognized the need for the appointment                            "'"
of temporary reporters in some instances when the regular re­
porters are unable to provide all the reporting service which
is requisite for the proper functioning of .the courts; but it
urged that, in the interest of economy, the courts arrange as
far as possible to have the proceedings before them reported by
the regular reporters, so that the appointment and expense of
temporary reporters may be held to a minimum.
    The following new transcript rates, effective as of November
 1, 1946, were authorized and approved by the Conference:
                                                                     Rate
                          District
                                                              Original      Copies


Second Circuit:
~ New York:
        . Northern ______ _                                   $0. 40         $0.15
II        Western _______ _                                     .40            . 15
Fifth Circuit: Louisiana, Western ___ _
Sixth Circuit: Kentucky, Eastern ____ _
                                             --------- - ~I     .40
                                                                .40
                                                                               . 15
                                                                               .15

  • Conf. Rpt., Sept., 1944, Appendix, p. 1.
                                           13 


                                                             Rate
                               District
                                                      Original      Copres


     Seventh· Circuit:
         minois, Northern __                           $0.45         $0.20
         Indiana, Northern ________ _                    .45           .20
         Wisconsin:
              Eastern _________ _                        .35            .15
              Western ______ _                           .35            • 15
     Ninth Circuit:
         California:
              N orthern ____ _                            .45           .20
              Southern __ _ 
                             .45           .20
         Oregon _______ _ 
                               .45           .20
         Washington, Western __ 
                         .45           .20
     Tenth Circuit: Colorado _ _ _ _ _ ______ _           .45           .20


       The Committee advised the Conference of the fact that in the
     proposed revision of Title 28 of the United States Code entitled
     "Judicial Code and Judiciary," as set forth in H. R. 7124, 79th
     Congress, the Committee on Revision of the Laws of the House
     of Representatives has incorporated as § 753 of the bill the
--   major part of the Act of January 20, 1944 (the Court Reporter
     Act) and, in so doing, has changed the present mandatory pro­
     vision of the law under which each district court is required to
     appoint one or more reporters to a permissive provision under
     which the courts may make such appointments.
       It was the sense of the Conference that this change was one
     of substance and directly contrary to the theory of the Court
     Reporter Act that in each district court there should be always
     available at least a minimum of official reporting service.
        The Conference recommended that the mandatory provi­
     sions of the present law should be retained in any revision
     thereof, and authorized its Committee on the Codification and
     Revision of the Criminal and Judicial Codes and the Committee
     on the Court Reporting System to inform the Committee on
     the Revision of the Laws of the House of Representatives of its
     attitude and recommendations with respect to the change it has
     proposed.
        The Director was authorized to consider a revision of the
     forms of periodic reports by the reporters of their business, so
                                14 


as to make them as simple as possible, consistently with fur­
nishing the needed information, to confer on the subject with
representative reporters, and to report his recommendations to
the Committee on the Court Reporting System. He was also
authorized to take the same course in reference to the forms of
records of their. operations to be kept by the reporters.
  The following resolution in respect of office facilities for court
reporters was adopted by the Conference:
           Resolved, That the Judicial Conference considers it
        very desirable for the court reporters for the district
        courts to have quarters in the federal buildings in which
        the courts are located, and recommends that wher~ver
        possible provision of this nature be made.              .
The Director of the Administrative Office was instructed to
confer with the custodians of the various federal court build­
ings in an effort to carry out the wishes of the Conference in
connection with the furnishing of office space for court
reporters.
  The Conference ordered the Committee on the Court Report­
ing System continued with the request that it pursue its studies,      ~
make an examination of each District in respect to reporters'
salaries and transcript rates, and submit a further report and
recommendations as promptly as possible.
  Budget Estimates.-The estimates of expenditures and a~
propriations necessary for the maintenance of the United
States Courts and the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts for the fiscal year 1948 were ordered approved
as submitted, and the Director of the Administrative Office,
with the approval of the Chief Justice, was authorized to make
any adjustments necessitated by the recently enacted Referees'
Salary Act or by the Conference action with respect to the Court
Reporting System. The Conference also approved the esti.:.
mates for deficiency appropriations for the fiscal year 1947.
  The Director referred to the need for savings to be effectuated
wherever possible and called attention to the admonitions of the
Appropriations Committee respecting economies in operation,
as set forth in the Hearings before the Subcommittee and in the
Report of the House Committee on the bill.
                                       15 

   The Conference respectfully referred the members of the
judiciary to the statement by the Director appearing under the
topical heading "Economy in the Administration of the
Courts" as Item VIn of his annual report for 1946, and urged
that they continue to cooperate with the Director in his efforts
to provide the courts with efficient and economical methods of
operation.
   Bankruptcy Administration.-The Committee on Bank­
ruptcy Administration reported that the Administrative Office
through Mr. Edwin L. Covey, Chief of the Bankruptcy Divi­
sion, was engaged in the survey and plan for a reorganization of
the system of referees in bankruptcy provided for by the re­
cently enacted salary bill for referees (Public Law 464 of the
79th Congress, approved June 28,1946) ; that in this connection
Mr. Covey and his staff were conferring with the district judges
and other interested persons in the various districts in order
to arrive at a plan as satisfactory as possible to all concerned,
and were keeping the Committee informed of their work; that
the Committee considered that good progress was being made
and expected that a plan for the determination of the number
and salaries of referees under the new act would be ready for
consideration by the Conference at a special meeting to be held
in April of 1947, the exact time to be recommended later; and
that according to this schedule operation under the new act
would begin on July 1, 1947.
   The Conference reaffirmed its previous approval of the pro­
posed amendments to § 57j, § 64a (1), and § 116 of the Bank­
ruptcy Act -1 and recommended their early enactment by the
Congress.
   After consideration of the proposals of the Committee for
amending § 64b, the Conference referred the matter back to the
 Committee with instruct.ions that the recommendations be cir­
 culated throughout the judiciary in conformance with Confer­
 ence policy, and that a further report to the Conference be sub­
 mitted at its special session in the spring of 1947.
   I t was ordered that, in the event legislation is proposed under
which § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act would become permanent,
  • Coni. Rpts., Sept., 1944, pp. 9, 10; 1940, pp. 16, 17.
                                16 

the Conference recommend the abolishment of the offices of
Conciliation Commissioner and Supervising Conciliation Com­
missioner and the absorption of their duties ahd functions by
the Referees in Bankruptcy. The Committee on Bankruptcy
Administration and the Director of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts were authorized, in the event such
legislation is proposed, to inform the Congress of the Confer­
ence's position.
   With. respect to the practice of transferring funds from one
referee's office to another within the same district, the Con­
ference·adopted the following resolution:
           The Conference having been advised that under pres­
        ent practice, transfers of funds between referees in the
        same district have been permitted in order to provide
        indemnity monies for referees in whose accounts deficits
        have been created, and that such deficits in some in­
        stances may not have been justified,
           It is, therefore, Resolved, That it is the sense of this
        Conference that transfers of indemnity funds between
        referees in a district should not be permitted without a
        prior audit of the offices involved by the Administrative
        Office of the United States Courts.
   With respect to office quarters for referees, the Conference
adopted the following resolution:
           Resolved, That the Judicial Conference considers it
        very desirable for the Referees in Bankruptcy to have
        quarters in federal office buildings and recommends that
        wherever possible provision of this nature be made.
 It directed that the Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts confer with the custodians of various
 federal office buildings in an effort to carry out the wishes of
 the Conference with respect to office facilities for referees.
   The Committee was authorized to continue its study in
 connection with conditional discharges and summary juris­
 diction.
    Review of Orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission
 and Other Administrative Agencies, and Procedure for 7'hree­
 Judge Courts.-The Consolidated Committees on Appellate
 Review of Orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission and
                                       17 

other Administrative Orders, and on Three-Judge Court Pro;.
cedure, submitted separate reports covering the following sub­
jects:
   Interstate Commerce Commission.-The bill previously ap­
proved by the Conference 5 and recommended for enactment
provided solely for review of orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. The Committee, pursuant to request of the
United States Maritime Commission, proposed an amendment
which would bring orders of that agency within the provisions
of the bill. The Conference approved the bill as amended, and
recommended its early enactment.
   Federal Communications Commission and the Secretary of
Agriculture.-The Committee submitted a draft of a bill giving
to the Circuit Courts of Appeals (including the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia) exclusive juris­
diction to enjoin, set aside, suspend, or determine the validity
of all final orders of the Federal Communications Commission
made under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and
certain orders of the Secretary of Agriculture made under the
Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921, as amended, and under
the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act of 1930, as
amended, and providing for review in the Supreme Court of
the United States upon writ of certiorari. The Conference
adopted an amendment to the venue section of the Committee's
bill, fixing alternative jurisdiction in the United States Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia, and recommended
prompt enactment of the amended bill.
   Three-Judge Court Procedure.-Two amendments to the
draft of a bill previously approved by the Conference 6 were
submitted by the Committee. The first would retain existing
statutory provisions which require that at least two judges join
in the granting of a temporary stay or suspension of an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The second would
require that action be brought by or against the Commission
with leave to the United States to intervene, rather than against
 the United States with leave to the Commission to intervene.
  • Conf. Rpt., 1945, pp. 17, 18.
 • Coni. Rpts., 1943, p. 20; 1945, p. 18.
                                        18 

The Conference adopted the arnendmentsand recommended
 the enactment of the bill, as amended.
    Treatment of Insane Persons Charged with Crime in the
Federal Court8.-The Conference approved, with certain
 amendments, the draft of a bill submitted by the Committee
 of the Conference on this subject which provides for a method
·of treatment, care, and custody of insane persons charged with
or convicted of offenses against the United States. The bill, as
.amended, sets forth a procedure for raising the issue of the
mental competence of an accused and for its determination; it
 makes provision for the disposition of an accused who has been
 judicially determined ·to be incompetent before trial. Proce­
dure is prescribed for the setting aside of a conviction where
 the issue of mental competency has not been raised or deter­
mined before or during the trial, and where mental incom­
petency becomes apparent after the defendant has been com­
 mitted to prison. The bill provides for the commitment to the
 Attorney General, upon a judicial proceeding and after a hear­
 ing, of any insane prisoner whose sentence is about to expire
.and whose release might endanger the safety of the officers, the
 property, or other interests of the United States.
    Sentencing and Parole of Federal Offender8.-Pursuant to
direction of the Conference/ the Committee on Punishment for
Crime submitted a draft bill incorporating the provisions of
 the sentencing bill affecting youthful offenders which had here­
 tofore been approved by the Conference. s
    The bill as submitted provides for the creation of a Federal
 Youth Authority to which the court, in its discretion, may sen­
 tence a youthful offender for treatment and supervision in lieu
 of probation or the penalty of imprisonment otherwise provided
 by law. A youthful offender, for the purposes of the Act, is
 defined as a person, male or female, under the age of twenty­
 four years.
    The Authority is charged with the responsibility of laying
 down general treatment and correctional policies; provision is
 made for the creation of classification centers to which offenders
  'Conf. Rpt., 1945, p. 22. 

  8 Conf. Rpts., 1943. p. 26; Sept., 1944, pp. 15, 16 j1945, p. 22. 

                                       19 


committed to the Authority shall be sent for observation and
study prior to confinement in an institution for treatment. In­
stitutions for treatment are to be of three types of security­
maximum, medium,and minimum-and segregation of the
offenders according to class of treatment determined necessary
is a feature of the plan.
   Power is vested in the Authority to release an individual
conditionally and under supervision at any time after his com­
mitment, and unconditionally at the expiration of one year from
his conditional release. It is mandatory for the Authority to
release an offender conditionally and under supervision on
or before the expiration of four years from the date of his con­
viction, and unconditionally on or before the expiration of six
years from date of his conviction. Power of revocation and
modification of previous orders respecting conditional releases
is vested in the Authority.
    In the event an offender is unconditionally discharged be­
 fore six years from date of his conviction, the conviction is auto­
matically set aside and the offender shall be issued a certificate
to this effect by the Authority, suchcortificate having the same
effect as a pardon.
    The bill in no way affects the existing power of the courts to
suspend the imposition or execution of any sentence and place
 the offender on probation, nor does it affect in any way the pro­
 visions of the Federal Juvenile Delinquency Act or the en­
 forcement or administration of that Act.
    The Conference adopted certain amendments to the bill pro­
 posed by the Committee respecting the fonnality of findiligs
 of the court, approved the bill as amended and recommended
 its early enactment.
    Removal of Civil Disabilities of Probationers Satisfying the
 Terms and Conditions of Their Probation.-The Committee
 on the Removal of Civil Disabilities of Probationers Fulfilling
 the Terms of their Probation recommended that the bill here­
 tofore approved by the Conference 9 be amended so that the
  Act will be applicable t() all persons on probation on the effective
 date of the Act; that persons discharged from probation prior
  • Conf. Rpts., 1942, p. 12; Sept., 1944, pp. 21, 22; 1945, p. 25.
                                         20 

to the effective date of the Act be excluded; and that the right
of the probationer to apply for relief be barred six months after
the date of the expiration of his probation.
  The Conference adopted the proposed amendments and
recommended the early enactment of the amended bill.
  Provision for the Trial of Minor Offenses by Commis­
sioners.-Chief Justice Groner, Chairman of the Committee
on the Trial of Minor Offenses by Commissioners, stated that
the Committee desired to reconsider their previous report and
recommendations 10 and requested that the matter be re­
ferred back to the Committee for further consideration, with
authority to make any revision deemed desirable by the Com­
mittee.
  The matter was referred back to the Committee with the
requested authorization and instructions that the proposals
as finally determined upon by the Committee be circulated in
conformance with Conference policy, and that a report of the
Committee be submitted at the next session of the Conference.
   Transfer of Jurisdiction for Supervision of Proba.tioners
from the Court of Original Jurisdiction to the District of
Supervision.-Pursuant to Conference direction 11 the Director
of the Administrative Office prepared a draft of a bill amend­
ing § 2 of the Probation Act of 1925, as amended, 18 U. S. C.
725, and circulated it throughout the judiciary with request that
views upon the proposal be submitted. The Director reported
that the reaction indicated a large majority favoring the bill,
and presented it for Conference action.
   The bill provides for the transfer of jurisdiction, in the
discretion of the courts concerned, over a probationer moving
from one jurisdiction to another (including all the power the
court may possess with respect to the probationer). The
courts of both jurisdictions must be agreeable to the transfer
and provision is made for repeated transfers as the movements
of the probationer may require. The bill prescribes that the
arrest of a probationer, during the period of probation, by a
probation officer must be for cause; and that a warrant for the
  '0 Conf. Rpt., Sept., 1944, p. 22. 


  " Conf. Rpt., 1945, p. 28. 

                                          21 




-   arrest may be issued only during a maximum period of five years
    (the maximum period of probation). In the event of revoca­
    tion of probation, the court may, if there was no previous
    sentence, impose any sentence which might previously have
    been imposed, or, if there was previous sentence, confirm it or
    set it aside and impose a new sentence not to exceed the pre­
    vious sentence.
        The Conference approved the report and draft of the bill
    submitted and ordered that it be forwarded to the Congress
    with recommendations for its early enactment.
        The Use of Trial Memoranda in Criminal Cases.-The Con­
    ference, after consideration of the report of the Committee
    appointed to study the subject matter, disapproved the prac­
    tice, prevalent in some districts, of trial judges in criminal
    cases receiving from the attorney on one side a brief or trial
    memorandum that has not been furnished to the attorney
    on the other side, and recommended the immediate discon­
    tinuance of such practice.
        Habeas Corpus Procedure.-The Conference renewed its
    previous a.pproval and recommendations of the procedural bill
     (8. 1452, H. R. 4232, 79th Cong.),12 The jurisdictional bill, as
    amended (H. R. 6723, 79th Cong.), was referred back to the
    Committee on Habeas Corpus Procedure with instructions that
    the bill and the report of the Committee be circulated among
    the judiciary in conformance with Conference policy, and that
    a further report of the Committee be submitted to the Con­
    ference at its next session.
        The Jury System.-The Conference reaffirmed its approval
    and recommendations heretofore given 13 to bills 14 providing,
    inter alia, for the establishment of uniform standards of qual­
     ifications for federal jurors; for improved provisions for
    jury commissions, and some increase in the compensation
    of the members thereof; for the establishment of a uniform
     method of selection of jurors; and for increase in the travel
    and subsistence allowance of jurors.
      " Coni. Rpts., 1943, pp. 22, 23 ; 1944, p. 22; 1945, p. 28. 

      13 Coni. Rpts., 1943, pp. 15, 16, 17; Sept., 1944, p. 21. 


      14 H. R. 3379, 3380. 3381, S. 1244, 1245, 1246--79th Congo 

                                  22 

    Representation of Indigent Litigants in the Federal Courts.­
 The approval heretofore given 13 to legislation proposed by the
Committee to Consider the Adequacy of Existing Provisions
 for the Protection of the Rights of Indigent Litigants in the
Federal Courts, was reaffirmed by the Conference. The Con­
ference was of the opinion, however, that the proposal should
be broadened so as to make available to indigent defendants
 in criminal cases in the courts of appeals the services of the
 public defender and counsel provided for under § 3 of the
 proposed bill; and, further, to provide counsel for indigent
persons applying for habeas corpus.
    The matter was, therefore, referred back to the Committee
 with instructions that consideration be given the Conference's
 suggestions and that a further report by the Committee be
 submitted at the special session of the Conference in the spring
'Of 1947.
    Judicial Statistics.-The report of the Committee on Judicial
 Statistics as presented by Mr. Shafroth of the Administrative
 Office was approved by the Conference.
    Pursuant to the Committee's request, the Conference author­
 ized the Director of the Administrative Office to request that
 the names of the trial judges be reflected in the monthly trial
 reports of the district judges, and urged compliance with such
 request by the courts. It also directed the Administrative
 Office to publish separately, wherever feasible, the judicial sta­
 tistics concerning the following parts of districts or places of
 holding court: Northern District of Ohio, Eastern and Western
 Divisions; Southern District of Ohio, Western Division (Cin­
 cinnati), Eastern and Western Divisions (Dayton), and East­
 ern Division (Columbus); Eastern District of Tennessee,
 Northern and Northeastern Divisions to be combined for statis­
 tical purposes and statistics for those divisions to be published
  separately from the statistics for the Southern and Winchester
  Divisions. It was understood that the various judges directly
  concerned approved this plan of reporting their statistics.
    In view of the continuing need for further study and research
  with respect to the subject matter, the Conference designated
  15   Conf. Rpt., 1945, p. 21.
                                     23 



-
     the present Committee on Judicial Statistics a standing com­
     mittee of the Conference.
        Outside Assignments of Judges.-The Committee designated
     by the Conference to study the subject matter submitted a
     comprehensive and detailed report reviewing the development
     of the assignment practice, and analyzing the effectiveness of
     present methods of "outside of circuit" assignments. Statistics
     were presented supporting the view of the Committee that the
     practice at present falls considerably short of its possibilities.
     It was emphasized that, whatever the plan may be, it would still
     be unsuccessful unless the whole of the judiciary was in accord
     and cooperated in its operation.
        As a general plan of operation, it being understood that it will
     be necessary to continue to make arrangements for assignments
     without regard to the plan in emergencies, the Committee
     recommended the adoption of the following procedure:
                (a) The Director will ask the senior circuit judge of
             each circuit, on or before WIay 1st of each year, how many
.-           visiting judges he thinks he will need in the following
             year, and in what districts and at what times he will need
             them.
                (b) When the judges have answered, the Director will
             ask the senior circuit judges \vhat judges may be avail­
             able for service outside their circuits in the following
             year, and will ask them for their consent that he may
             write to any such judges directly.
                (c) The Director will then try to arrange with any
             of such judges to fill the requirements of such circuits
             as need help; will inform the Chief Justice of those
             whom he has persuaded; and will see to it that the
             proper certificates and other documents are executed.
                (d) All this will, if possible, be done during the
             summer months, so that it will be completed by the
             opening of the autumn terms.
         The Conference approved the report and recommendations
     of the Committee; directed the Director of the Administra­
      tive Office of the United States Courts to adopt the system of
      procedure outlined; and earneE:tly requested all judges to
      conform to the system.
         Admiralty Rules-A 1nendm.ents.-The Committee ap­
      pointed to consider amendments to Rules 51, ,52, 53, and 54 of
                                  24 

the Supreme Court Rules in Admiralty, proposed by the Mari­
time Law Association of the United States, submitted its
report. It stated that, for the purpose of clarification, certain
changes were made in the amendments, but that, in substance,
it had followed the Association's suggestions, and that the
principal purpose of the amendments was to provide uniform­
ity in limitation proceedings.
   After consideration of the report, the Conference requested
the Committee to amend its proposed Rule 54 by adding a
provision that would permit the court, in its discretion, to
transfer the proceedings to any district for the convenience of
the parties; that, as so amended, the report and recommenda­
tions be submitted to the judiciary in conformance with Con­
ference policy; and that a further report be submitted to the
Conference by the Committee.
   Disposition of Old Records of the United States Courts.­
The Committee on the Disposition of Old Records of the
United States Courts reported that in compliance with the
directive of the Conference lG it had amended its previous
recommendations so as to provide for the permanent retention
of all orders for sale of real estate and orders of confirmation
of such sales; that such report and recommendations, as
amended, had been circulated in conformance with Confer­
ence policy and the reaction thereto was most favorable.
   The Conference approved the report and recommendations
of the Committee and urged that the system proposed be put
into general effect as promptly as possible.
   Postwar Building Plans tor the Quarters ot the United
States Courts.~-The COlmnittee on Postwar Building Plans
for the Quarters of the United States Courts submitted, with
its report, a manual setting forth general standards of design
and construction for federal court quarters in federal build­
ings hereafter to be constructed. The Committee emphasized
that the manual ,vas submitted solely for the purpose of serv­
ing as a general guide, pointing out, however, that, in its
opinion, the manual "if closely followed--€xcept where varia­
tions were required to meet some local situation-would be
  16   Conf. Rpt., 1945, p. 27.
conducive to a substantial increase in the usefulness and effi­
ciency of the facilities to be provided for the Courts."
   The Conference approved the report and recommendations
of the Committee, and directed that copies of the report and
the manual be circulated throughout the judiciary.
   The Committee was continued and it was requested to pur­
sue its studies in conjunction with the Public Buildings
Administration.
   The Admini~trative Office of the United States Courts-Sal­
aries.-The Conference unanimously approved a proposed draft
of a bill submitted by Chief Justice Groner of the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, amending pres­
ent statutes so as to provide annual salaries for the Director and
the Assistant Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts in the amounts of $15,000 and $12,500,
respectively, and recommended its prompt enactment by the
Congress.
   Legislation Affecting District Courts and District Judges.­
The Conference discussed at length the experiences had under
its present procedural policy 17 with respect to the circulation
throughout the judiciary of proposed legislation affecting dis­
trict judges or district courts. It was stated that in some of the
circuits the legislative committees for the circuit conferences
contemplated under the plan have not been created and, in
others, although established they were not functioning in ac­
cordance with the plan. The Conference reemphasized the
desirability of having the benefit of the views of the full judici­
ary on such proposals.
   Attention was called to the fact that sometimes the circuit
conferences are held at a season which precludes action by these
circuits upon many matters considered in the Senior Conference.
   The Conference adopted the following resolutions regarding
these matters, and urged compliance with the procedure sug­
gested wherever possible:
           Resolved, That the Director of the Administrative
        Office call the attention of the circuit and district judges
        to the policy of the Conference that each circuit confer­
----
  11   Conf. Rpt., 1945, pp. 8, 9, 10.
                                26
       ence appoint a legislative committee to consider pro­
       posed legislation affecting district judges or district
       courts, so that the Conference may be informed of the
       views of the district judges and of the circuit conferences.
          To this end the Conference requests the circuit confer­
       ences to appoint such legislative committees where they
       have not already been appointed, so that proposed legis­
       lation may be given prompt consideration.
          For this same purpose the Conference recommends
       that the circuit conferences be held in the three months,
       June, July and August, in each year so that the Confer­
       ence which meets annually in the week before the first
       Monday of October, may have the benefit of the views of
       the circuit conferences.

          Resolved} That whenever legislation affecting the dis­
       trict courts or district judges, or any other matter affect­
       ing the district judges or district courts is circulated for
       comment in accordance with the procedural policy of the
       Conference, the Director of the Administrative Office is
       hereby authorized to communicate directly with each
       senior circuit judge, calling his attention to the fact that
       the matter is being circulated for consideration.
          The Director will again call the attention of the senior
       circuit judge to all such matters that may be pending as
       early as possible in advance of the time set for the circuit
       judicial conference.
   Legislative Proposals Reaffirmed.-The Conference re­
affirmed its previous recommendations regarding legislation
providing basic authority for the employment of certain per­
sonnel of the courts and urged its early enactment by the next
Congress.
   Keeping Offices Open on Saturday Forenoom.-The Con­
ference reaffirmed its statement of last year that,
          It was the sense of the Conference that the clerks'
       offices, and the offices of the probation officers of all the
       federal courts, also the district attorneys' and marshals'
       offices, should be kept open on Saturday forenoons, with
        such service provided in the buildings occupied as is
        satisfactory to the judges of the courts concerned.
   Committees Continued.-All the present Committees of the
Conference, except the Committee on the Library Funds of
                             27 


Certain Circuit Courts of Appeals and the COllullittee on the
Use of Trial Memoranda in Criminal Cases, were continued.
   Committee Appointed.-Pursuant to resolution of the Con­
ference, the Chief Justice appointed the following Committee:
   COIlUllittee on Probation with Special Reference to Juvenile
Delinquency. This Committee will study and make recom­
mendations to the Conference relative to the specific problems
Df juvenile delinquency discussed by the Attorney General,
and relative to the general operation of federal probation.
The following were designated as members of this Committee:
District Judge Harold M. Kennedy, Chairman, District Judges
Bower Broaddus, Chase A. Clark, James P. McGranery, Arthur
J. Mellott, Clarence Mullins and George C. Sweeney.
   The Chief Justice designated District Judge Paul J. Mc­
Cormick as a member of the Committee on the Court Report­
ing System to succeed District Judge A. F. St. Sure, resigned.
   The Chief Justice appointed District Judge John McDuffie
as an additional member of the Committee on the Statutory
Definition of "Felony."
   Advisory Committee.-~The Conference continued the com­
mittee consisting of the Chief Justice, Judges Biggs, Parker
and Stone, and Chief Justice Groner, to advise and assist the
Director in the performance of his duties.
   The Conference declared a recess, subject to the call 9f the
Chief Justice.
   For the Judicial Conference:
                                       FRED M. VINSON,
                                                Chief Justice.
