 .
r·
,

         REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
                          September Session, 1947
        The Judicial Conference convened, pursuant to 28 U. S. C., § 218,
     on September 25, 1947, on the call of the Chief Justice, and con­
     tinued in session until Saturday noon, September 27, 1947. The
     following judges were present:
        The Chief Justice, Presiding.
        District of Columbia, Associate Justice Harold M. Stephens.
        First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Calvert Magruder.
        Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Learned Hand.
        Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John Biggs, Jr.
        Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker.
        Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Samuel H. Sibley.
        Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Xenophon Hicks.
        Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans.
        Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Archibald K. Gardner.
        Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Francis A. Garrecht.
        Tenth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips.
        Chief Justice D. Lawrence Groner of the United States Court of
     Appeals for the District of Columbia was unable to attend the
     Conference session because of illness. Associate Justice Harold M.
     Stephens attended in his place.
        As guests of the Conference, Circuit Judges Albert B. Maris, of
     the Third Judicial Circuit; Thomas F. McAllister, of the Sixth
     Judicial Circuit; and Albert Lee Stephens, of the Ninth Judicial
     Circuit, attended various meetings of the Conference and partici­
     pated in its discussions.
        The Attorney General, accompanied by the Solicitor General,
     the Assistant Solicitor General, and Mr. Morrison of his staff, at­
     tended the opening meeting of the conference.
        Henry P. Chandler, Director; Elmore Whitehurst, Assistant Di­
     rector; Will Shafroth, Chief of the Division of Procedural Studies
     and Statistics; Edwin L. Covey, Chief of the Bankruptcy Division,
     and various members of their respective staffs, all of the Adminis­
     trative Office of the United States Courts, were in attendance
     throughout the session.
          766478-47-1
                                  2


   The Conference welcomed the new Senior Circuit Judge for the
Eighth Judicial Circuit, Judge Archibald K. Gardner, succeeding
 Judge Kimbrough Stone, retired, and thereupon adopted the follow­
ing resolu tion:
         In the retirement of Honorable Kimbrough Stone, this Con­
      ference loses the presence of one who has made an outstanding
      contribution to the work in which it is engaged. For more
      than a quarter of a century he has rendered distinguished
      service as a Judge of the Eighth Judicial Circuit; and as a
      Senior Circuit Judge his advice and assistance to this Confer­
      ence have been of inestimable value. We extend to him our
      affectionate regards, and trust that his life may be extended
      for many years to come.
   Statement of the Attorney General.-The Attorney General
addressed the Conference concerning matters of interest to the
federal judiciary. The judiciary was commended for its untiring
efforts to maintain a currentness of docket in the face of a material
 increase in the work load, and a substantial shortage of manpower.
Assurance was given that the present policy of the Department to
exhaust every effort to have vacancies in the courts filled promptly
would be continued, and, in addition, the wholehearted support and
cooperation of the Department could be expected by the judiciary
in its endeavors to have the additional judgeships deemed necessary
to furnish the courts with adequate manpower provided for by law.
   A review of the experiences had by the Department under the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure (now a year and one-half old)
indicated that, while there were still some "rough spots" prevalent
in a few districts which present the Department with certain proc~­
dural difficulties under the rules, particularly Rule 7 (b) and Rule
20, the unanimity of the Federal District Courts becomes more
widely publicized through decisions, these "spots" would be levelled
off. Aside from these few minor exceptions, it was stated that the
federal courts have uniformly carried out the objectives expressed
in Rule 2 by assuring a "just determination of every criminal
proceeding" and by construing the rules "to secure simplicity in
procedure [and] fairness in administration."
   A brief resume of the Department's experiences under the recent
Federal Tort Claims Act, and the Administrative Procedure Act
was presented and satisfaction indicated with the existing
situation.
                                     3

       Attention was called to the fact that by virtue of the termina­
    tion of the Office of Price Administration, the Department had
    recently acquired responsibility for the handling of numerous cases
    pending in the courts; that to insure proper and equitable disposi­
    tion of the cases, as well as an intelligent presentation, reasonable
    time was needed for the Department to familiarize itself with all
    the facts. In many instances, however, the courts have insisted on
    early trials despite the urgent requests of the Department for addi­
    tional time, resulting in the Department's being forced to pursue
    a course of compromise rather than face the possibility of dismissal
    of the suits by the courts.
       It was stated that several plans of procedure with respect of
    these cases were under consideration, and that the Department
    should, within a short time, be able to determine upon a policy
    of enforcement which would enable it to be in a position to dis­
    pose of these cases currently.
       In view of these circumstances, the Attorney General urged that,
    in the meantime, every consideration be given their requests for
    reasonable extensions of time in these cases.
       It was stated that the Department's interest in and desire for

-   the early enactment of certain legislative proposals of the Confer­
    ence continued, and that every assistance possible would be ren­
    dered in an effort to secure favorable action by the Congress at
    its next session. Specific reference was made to the Youth Author­
    ity Bill, the Uniform Federal Jury Bill, the codification and revi­
    sion of the Criminal and Judicial Codes, and the bill providing
    for the care and custody of insane persons charged with or con­
    victed of offenses against the United States.
       Attention was called to the proposals of the Conference relating
     to the method of review of orders of the Interstate Commerce
    Commission and other administrative agencies. It was pointed
    out that while there was accord in the Department with the gen­
    eral objectives of the proposals, there were two changes from the
    Conference's recommendations which the Department had sub­
    mitted to the Congress: One would provide that the Department
    of Justice would continue to have charge and control of the inter­
    ests of the Government in suits to obtain judicial review of orders
     of the Interstate Commerce Commission. It was the opinion of
     the Attorney General that this would be in keeping with the rec­
     ognized responsibility of the Department for the conduct of all
    Government litigation. The second would continue in effect the
                                  4


present venue provisions, inasmuch as the Department felt that
the applicant to the Commission, rather than the party bringing
the suit to set aside the Commission's order, should be favored in
the matter of venue.1
   The Attorney General submitted, for the consideration of the
                                                                            -

Conference, recommendations concerning the adoption of uniform
rules for all the Circuit Courts of Appeals regulating particularly
the preparation and contents of printed records on appeal and of
appellate briefs.
   Administration of the United States Courts-Report of the
Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.­
The Director submitted his eighth annual report reviewing the ac­
tivities of his office for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947, including
the report of the Division of Procedural Studies and Statistics.
The Conference approved the report and ordered its prompt re­
lease for publication. The Director was authorized to include addi­
tional statistical information, not now available, and to make
corrections of any minor errors in the present report, in the printed
edition of the report to be issued later.
   State of the Dockets of the Federal Courts-Circuit Courts of
Appeals.-There has been a declining trend in the number of cases
filed in the Circuit Courts of Appeals since 1940. The number of -

cases begun in the fiscal year 1947,2,615, was only 12 less than in
1946, and the number of cases terminated slightly exceeded those
commenced. The great increase since 1944 in the number of civil
cases filed in the District Courts, due to actions brought by the
Office of Price Administration, and in 1947 to the increase in pri­
vate cases, has not been reflected in the Circuit Courts of Appeals.
Administrative appeals, of which those from the Tax Court consti­
tute more than a half and those from the National Labor Relations
Board more than a quarter, are about 15 percent of the total.
   A slightly smaller number of petitions to the Supreme Court
for review on certiorari to the Circuit Courts of Appeals were filed
in 1947 than in the previous year. About one-sixth of the peti­
tions for review in cases from the Circuit Courts of Appeals which
were passed upon by the Supreme Court during the year were
granted. The median time from docketing to disposition of cases
terminated in the Circuit Courts of Appeals after hearing or sub­
mission was 6.9 months, and the median time from submission to
decision was a month and a half, approximately the same in both
 1   See p. 19, infra.
instances as in the preceding year. From docketing in the lower
court to decision in the Circuit Courts of Appeals the interval was
21.1 months.
   District Courts.-A decided decrease occurred in the number of
civil cases commenced in the District Courts in 1947 as compared
with 1946. This was caused mainly by a sharp drop from 31,252
to 15,203 in the number of cases brought by the Office of Price
Administration and its successors for injunctions and treble dam­
ages. From the standpoint of the workload of the courts, the sub­
stantial increase in private cases is more significant, because a
larger proportion of them reach trial and they more often involve
complicated questions of law. The total of 29,122 private cases
begun during the year, which includes 7,719 from the District of
Columbia, where the court has local as well as federal jurisdiction,
was almost 7,000 larger than in 1946.
   Cases terminated were about 4,000 less than cases commenced,
with a resultant increase of like amount in the number pending
at the end of the year. The trend in the number of civil cases
commenced and terminated annually for the past 5 years is shown
by the following table:
                                              Commenced   Terminated   Pending


Fiscal1943________________________________
        year ended on June 30-­
     1944 _____________________________         36,789      36,044     29,927
     1945________________________________.­     38,499      37,086     31,340
     1946_____________________________          60,965      52,300     40,005
     1947_____________________________ .­       67,835      61,000     46,840
                                         ..     58,956      54,515     51,281


  It will be noted that the number of civil cases filed has exceeded
the number terminated in each of the past 5 years. The number
pending at the end of 1947, which included a substantial number
of cases involving price regulation, was greater than at any time
during the last 20 years.
  The "portal-to-portal" litigation swelled the total in 1947 by
2,239 cases. Only about 10 percent of these cases were dismissed
or otherwise disposed of before June 30, 1947. There was an in­
crease in other Fair Labor Standards Act cases, Jones Act cases
involving injuries to seamen, diversity of citizenship cases, and
admiralty proceedings. The decline in patent, copyright, and
trade-mark cases, which occurred during the war, has stopped and
their numbers are now increasing. The steady growth in the vol­
                                 6


ume of Employers' Liability Act cases for injuries to railroad
employees has continued. These cases are largely concentrated
in a few districts. The general trend has been toward a return to
prewar types of litigation. The Federal Tort Claims Act has
produced a total of 675 new cases.
                                                                       -

   The median interval from filing to disposition of civil cases
terminated after trial (excluding land condemnation, forfeiture,
and habeas corpus cases) was 9.0 months and the like period from
issue to trial was 5.1 months, about the same as in 1946. Approxi­
mately one-third of the civil cases tried are disposed of within
6 months after filing.
   The number of criminal cases filed was slightly larger in the
fiscal year 1947 than in 1946, and the cases closed exceeded the
number filed. Of 8,124 cases pending on June 30, 1947,2,216 were
cases in which fugitive defendants were involved, leaving a re­
mainder of 5,908 disposable criminal cases on the dockets. De­
fendants charged in Selective Service Act cases and Office of Price
Administration cases were much fewer than in the previous year.
On the other hand, the number of defendants in Dyer Act cases for
the interstate theft of automobiles and the number charged with


                                                                       -

other theft or with fraud, increased.
   Indictment was waived in 6,726 cases and there were 911 trans­
fers from one district to another for plea and sentence. The pro­
visions of the new criminal rules which authorize these procedures
are valuable tools for the elimination of unjustifiable expense and
delay in criminal cases.
   New bankruptcy cases increased from 10,196 in 1946 to 13,170
in 1947, ending the wartime decline in this type of proceeding, and
indicating the probability of an increasing trend. The number of
cases terminated slightly exceeded those commenced, leaving 17,296
cases pending as of June 30,1947, which is the smallest pending load
of bankruptcy cases for more than a quarter of a century.
   Special Courts.-No very significant change in the flow of busi­
 ness in the special courts was reported by the Director. In the
 Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, the number of customs
appeals docketed decreased, and the number of patent appeals in­
creased, reversing the trend of the previous year. The Customs
 Court disposed of more classification and appraisal cases during
 the year than were filed, with the result that the number of pend­
 ing cases in those principal categories was substantially reduced.
 The number of new cases brought in the Court of Claims was 10
percent less in 1947 than in 1946. There was a considerable num­
ber of class cases on the docket at the end of the year, which will
be determined by a few test cases. Iu addition, there were 554
cases for separate trial pending at the end of 1947, compared with
482 such cases at the end of the previous year.
   The Emergency Court of Appeals received appeals in 68 cases
during the year compared with 114 in 1946. It disposed of 120
cases, leaving 32 pending at the end of the year. Some new cases
are still being filed, but, as the result of the elimination of price
regulations and controls with the liquidation of the Office of Price
Administration, the business of the court has considerably de­
creased.
   Additional Judges.-After consideration of the report of the
Director of the Administrative Office and the statements of the
 several Circuit Judges concerning the work of the courts in their
 particular circuits, the Conference took the following action with
 respect to providing for additional judgeships within the federal
 judiciary:
 Circuit Courts:
         Renewed its previous recommendations calling for the ap­
     pointment of one additional judge to the United States Circuit
     Court of Appeals for the Seventh Judicial Circuit.
 District Courts:
         Southern District of New York: Renewed its previous rec­
     ommendations providing for the repeal of the prohibition
      against filling the vacancy resulting from the retirement of
      the late Judge Woolsey, and recommended the creation of two
      additional permanent judgeships.
         District of New Jersey: Renewed its previous recommen­
      dation providing for an additional judge.
          Western District of Pennsylvania: Renewed its previous
      recommendation providing for the appointment of two addi­
      tional district judges on a temporary basis.
          Eastern District of Pennsylvania: Recommended the crea­
       tion of an additional judgeship.
          Northern and Southern Districts of Florida: Recommended
       the creation of a permanent judgeship for service in both
       districts.
          Northern District of Georgia: Recommended the present
       temporary judgeship in this district be made permanent.
                                    8

        Eastern and Western Districts of Missouri: Renewed its
      previous recommendation to make permanent the last created
      jUdgeship in this district.
        Northern District of California: Renewed its previous rec­
      ommendation providing for the creation of an additional
                                                                           ­
      judgeship.
   Assignment of Judges.~The Director commented upon the new
plan of procedure adopted by the Conference 2 with respect to
the manner of assignment of judges for service outside their par­
ticular circuit, and stated that, inasmuch as the plan had not be­
come effective until after the commencement of the present fiscal
year, the actual experience gained thereunder was not sufficient to
base a determination as to the adequacy of the new procedure.
However, he was considerably encouraged with the reaction had
so far and was of the opinion that, in the event the present coopera­
tive attitude continued, the full fiscal year will reflect a substantial
increase in the amount of service rendered in districts in which
there is congestion by district judges from other circuits on tem­
poraryassignment.
   In this connection, it was pointed out that in many instances
district judges available for outside assignments are reluctant to
accept such assignments because of the existing high cost of per­
sonal services, i. e., hotel accommodations, meals, etc., which would
result in a considerable out-of-pocket cost to them due to existing
                                                                           -
statutory limitations on the amount allowable for expenses.
   The Conference thereupon resolved that this situation be
brought to the attention of the Congress with the recommendation
of the Conference that the present statutory maximum per diem
allowance of $10 per day for judges accepting service outside their
own circuit upon designation by the Chief Justice be increased to
$15 per day.
   Salaries of Supporting Judicial Personnel.-The Committee on
SaJaries of Supporting Personnel of the Courts, through its Chair­
man, Judge Biggs, reported that during the past session of the Con­
gress legislation providing the necessary basic legislative authority
for the employment of secretaries to judges had been enacted.
   The legislative proposal, previously approved by the Confer­
 ence," under which the annual salaries for the Director and the
Assistant Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
  , Conf. Rpt., Oct. 1946, p. 23.
  • Cont. Rpt., Oct. 1946, p. 25.
                                         9

    Courts would be increased to $15,000 and $12,500, respectively,
    has not, as yet, been considered by the Congress. Whereupon, the
    Conference directed that the Committee on Salaries of Supporting
    Personnel of the Courts exert every effort to secure the enactment
    of legislation toward this end during the next session of the
    Congress.
       Court Reporters.-The Conference considered the report and
    recommendations of the Committee on the Court Reporting
    System.
       The Committee had heard representatives of the court reporters
    and considered their recommendations. It also had studied in
    detail the reports of earnings of the reporters in each district, as­
    sembled by the Administrative Office, and had considered in this
    light requests for increases in salaries and transcript rates brought
    to its attention.
       The Conference concurred in the conclusion of the Committee
    that the reported earnings of the reporters do not indicate that the
    present salaries or transcript rates are too high. It also agreed
    with the Committee that in some few instances of very long trials

-   involving large amounts of daily copy transcript and multiple
    copies, the transcript rate fixed has permitted earnings of sums
    that seem larger than reasonable compensation. It was the sense
    of the Conference that this matter is in general sufficiently covered
    by the regulation adopted at its September 1945,4 session, provid­
    ing that daily copy transcript rates may be fixed by agreement,
     subject to the approval of the court, at not to exceed in any case
     twice the regular rate, but that in cases where daily copy is ordered,
    care should be ta,ken by the District Courts not to permit the
     charging of rates that will result in excessive compensation for the
     services rendered, even though agreed to by the parties.
       The Conference concluded that this should be again brought
    to the attention of the District Courts, and recommended that in
     the exercise of their power to approve agreements for rates for
     daily copy, in especially long cases, the courts take into account
     the conditions affecting the earnings, in particular, the probable
     length of the transcript and the number of copies to be paid for,
     and limit the rates so approved to such amounts as will provide
     no more than reasonable compensation. Since this can be done
     with fuller knowledge at the end of a case than at the beginning,

-     • Conf. Rpt., Sept. 1945, p. 11.
           766478-47-2
                                      10 


the Conference suggested that the courts postpone the final deter­
mination of appropriate rates in such cases until they are con­
cluded, with provision for the making of progress payments as the
proceedings advance, as in the case of receiverships and special                  -
masterships.
   The following changes in salaries of court reporters in specific
districts, to become effective as soon as the state of the appropria­
tions for the court reporting system will reasonably permit, recom­
mended by the Committee were approved by the Conference:
        Southern District of Iowa: Salary of the Reporter increased
     from $3,600 to $4,000 per annum.
        Third Division of the District of Alaska: Salary of the
     Reporter, acting also as secretary to the Judge, increased from
     $4,500 to $5,000 per annum.
   The following new transcript rates, effective as of November
1, 1947, were authorized and approved by the Conference:
                                                             Rate
                         District
                                                                    Copies

Eighth Circuit:
                                                                              ~
    Arkansas:
         ~eBtern______    ________________________ _                  $0.15   ­
                                                                        .15
    Iowa:
        Nortbern________________________________ _
                                                                        .15
        Soutbern____ _______ _                                          .15

   The Conference disapproved the proposal that there be granted
a general increase of 15 percent in the salaries of court reporters.
   The Conference approved the recommendation of the Commit­
tee that the reporters be required to continue to submit reports of
their private earnings.
   Bankruptcy Administration.-The report of the Committee on
Bankruptcy Administration was submitted to the Conference by
its Chairman, Judge Phillips. The Conference, with respect to
changes in refereeships, territories, salaries, places of holding court,
regular place of office, and related matters, took the following
action:
                               FIRST CIRCUIT

                                    District
  Massachusetts: Designated Boston as the regular place of office
for all referees in the district.
                                   u
      Designated Brockton, Greenfield, and Pittsfield as addi:tioI,lal
    places of holding court.
       Authorized the continuation of offices at Worcester and Fall
    River with the understanding that no staffs would be maintained
    in such offices.
                             SECOND CIRCUIT

                                 District
       New York-'Western: Designated Batavia, Lockport, and
    Jamestown as additional places of holding court for the referee at
    Buffalo.
       Added Alleghany County to the territory to be served by the
    referee at Buffalo.
       Designated Geneva and Elmira as additional places of holding
    court for the referee at Rochester.
       Eastern: Adopted the Committee's recommendation that no
    change with respect to the number and location of referees be made
    at this time.
                                 Vermont


-      Designated St. Johnsbury as a place of holding court for the
    referee at Burlington in place of Barre.
                              THIRD CIRCUIT

                                 District
       New Jersey: Designated Trenton as the regular place of office
    for one of the full-time referees now located at Newark.
       Pennsylvania-Middle: Removed Blair County from the ter­
    ritoryto be served by the referee at Harrisburg.
       Western: Added Blair County to the territory to be served by
    the referee at Ebensburg.
       Eastern: Designated Easton as an additional place of holding
    court for the referee at Reading.
                             FOURTH CIRCUIT

                                 District
      Maryland: Added Baltimore City to the territory to be served
    by the referee at Baltimore.

-     Virginia-Western: Designated Covington and Charlottesville
    as additional places of holding court for the referee at Staunton.
                                   12 


  South Carolina-Western: Authorized change in the regul81
place of office for the referee in this district from Greenville to
Spartanburg.
                                                                            -.
                            FIF'l'H CIRCUIT

                               District
  Texas-Northern: Approved the Committee's recommendation
that no change be made at the present time in the number, salaries,
territories, or regular place of office of the referees in this district.
  Southern: Deleted as unnecessary specific mention of Lavaca
County from the territory to be served by the referee at Corpus
Christi.
   Mississippi-Southern: Authorized the appointment of a part­
time referee for term expiring June 30, 1949, at a salary of $2,000
per annum to fill an existing vacancy in this district.
                          SEVENTH CIRCUI'l'

                                District
   Illinois-Northern: Authorized change in the regular place of
office for the part-time referee at Geneva to Joliet.
   Authorized change in the regular place of office for the part- ".....
time referee at Rockford to Dixon, and designated Dixon as an ­
additional place of holding court.
   Indiana-Northern: Authorized change in the regular place of
office for the referee at Hammond to Gary, and designated Gary
as an additional place of holding court.
   Wisconsin-Eastern: Designated Racine as a place of holding
court in place of Kenosha.
   Western: Designated Eau Claire as an additional place of hold­
ing court for the referee at La Crosse.
                            EIGHTH CIRCUIT

                                District
  Minnesota: Authorized change from a part-time to a full-time 

basis for the referee at Minneapolis, and a salary of $9,000 per 

annum effective July 1, 1948. 

                           NINTH CIRCUIT

                                District
   Nevada: Authorized change in the regular place of office of the 

referee from Reno to Carson City, and designated Carson City as 

an additional place of holding court. 

                                    13 

   Authorized an increase in the salary of the part-time referee for
this District to $1,800 per annum, effective October 1, 1947.
   Washington-Western: Adopted the Committee's recommen­
dation that no change in the number and location of referees in
this district be made at the present time.
   The recommendations of the Committee that resurveys be con­
 ducted in the Northern District of Iowa, the District of Arizona,
 and the Southern District of California were approved by the Con­
 ference. The Director was authorized to make any resurveys dur­
 ing the ensuing year which, in his opinion, were called for, and
the Conference directed that upon the completion of such sur­
veys a report thereof, together with recommendations of the Di­
rector, be submitted by mail to the members of the Conference
Committee on Bankruptcy Administration and the members of
the Conference for consideration.
   The following regulation, relating to filing fees in reopened
 cases, which had been submitted by the Director to the Committee
for consideration, was recommended by the Committee for adop­
tion by the Conference:
         There shall be deposited with the clerk, at the time a
      petition is filed to reopen any closed bankruptcy proceed­
      ing (a) $17 for each estate for the referees' salary fund;
      (b) $15 for each estate for the referees' expense fund;
      (c) $5 for each estate for the trustee's fee; (d) $8 for e~ch
      estate for the clerk's filing fee. Where applicable, all ad­
      ditional and special charges prescribed by the Judicial
      Conference of Senior Circuit Judges, pursuant to Section
      40c (2) and 40c (3) of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended,
      shall also be charged for the referees' salary and expense
      funds respectively.
   It was pointed out that at the present time no provision is made
 for the collection of filing fees in this character of case; that, gen­
erally, the purpose is to clear title to real estate, and it is quite often
necessary to call a meeting of the creditors, elect a trustee, and
authorize such action by the trustee as the circumstances may re­
 quire. In order to meet the expense incident to such procedures,
and to provide for an equitable contribution to the referees' salary
fund for services actually rendered, a schedule fixing the fees appli­
 cable in such cases is necessary.
   The recommendations of the Committee were adopted, and the
Conference directed that the foregoing regulation be made effective
as promptly as possible.
   The question of exempting the Reconstruction Finance Cor­
poration from the payment of special charges in bankruptcy cases
                                    14 


fixed pursuant to Sec. 40c (3) of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended,
was submitted by the Committee without recommendation. The ­
matter was passed by the Conference without action, it being the
sense of the Conference that such exemption should be provided
for by legislative, rather than Conference, action.
   The Committee's recommendation that upon the transfer of a
Chapter X proceeding to a regular bankruptey proceeding an ad­
ditional charge of $15 be paid by the trustee out of the assets of
the estate to the clerk of the court for deposit to the credit of the
Referees' Expense Fund in the United States Treasury was con­
curred in by the Conference.
   In view of the changed conditions and circumstances which
necessitated a revision in the estimates of income and expense
requirements of the Referees' Salary Fund and the Referees' Ex­
pense Fund, respectively, the Conference approved a change in
the allocation of the additional charges assessed in asset cases
under Section 40c (2) so that, effective as to all cases filed on and
after January 1,1948, a sum equal to 1% percent of the additional
charges assessed will be allocated to each of the funds.
   The Committee reported that, pursuant to instructions of the
Conference,5 its proposal to amend § 64b of the Bankruptcy Act,
as amended, had been submitted to the Judicial Councils of the
various circuits and had received endorsement of a substantial
majority of the circuits. In view of this, and in the light of the
Committee's further deliberations, the Committee reiterated its
previous recommendation to the effect that § 64b of the Bank­
ruptey Act, as amended, be amended to read as follows:
        SEc.64b. Debts [contracted] incurred while a discharge is in
     force or after the confirmation of an arrangement shall, in the
     event of a revocation of the discharge or setting aside of the
     confirmation for fraud, or in the event an order is entered
     directing that bankruptcy be proceeded with in a case in which
     the court has retained jurisdiction arid supervision over the
     affairs of the debtor while the confirmation of a planJ or ar­
     rangement is in effect, have [priority] precedence and be paid
     in full in advance of the payments of the debts which were
     provable in the bankruptcy or arrangement proceeding, as the
     case may be. In the payment of such interim debts the prior­
     ities prescribed in subdivision a of this section shall be appli­
     cable; and for such purpose the date of the entry of the order
     revoking the discharge or setting aside the confirmation of an
     arrangement or ordering that bankruptcy be proceeded with
     shall be deemed to be the date of bankruptcy,
  • Cont. Rpt., Oct. 1946. p. 15.
                                 15
        When in a proceeding under Chapters X, XI, XII, or XIII
     of this Act a plan or arrangement has been confirmed under
     which the court has not retained jurisdiction and supervision
     over the affairs of the debtor while the confirmation of the plan
     or arrangement is in effect, and thereafter because of a default
     in carrying out its terms an order is entered directing that
     bankruptcy be proceeded with, the date of the entry of the
     order shall be deemed to be the date of bankruptcy as to
     interim debts, and the priorities prescribed in subdivision a of
     this section shall be applicable. Creditors affected by the plan
     or arrangement in such proceedings shall be creditors only to
     the extent provided in the plan or arrangement, less any pay­
     ments made upon their claims thereunder and shall share on
     the same footing as the interim creditors 1Wt entitled to prior­
     ity under subdivision a of this section. [Material to be
     deleted from present Act in brackets; new language in italics.]
   The Conference approved the Committee's recommendation and
directed that the proposed amendment be submitted to the Con­
gress with recommendation of the Conference for its enactment.
   Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Conference dis­
approved the provisions of H. R. 3085, 80th Congress, insofar as
they seek to amend § 61 of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended, relat­
ing to the requirement that depositaries designated to receive
bankruptcy funds shall secure such funds by the deposit of ap­
proved securities or furnish approved surety.
   The Committee proposed an amendment to § 58d of the Bank­
ruptcy Act, as amended, under which the present mandatory pro­
visions concerning the publication of notice of the first meeting'
of the creditors would be made discretionary. It was submitted
that inasmuch as § 58a makes mandatory the mailing of such notice
to all creditors, the present requirement of publication is, in almost
all cases, superfluous, and is not of sufficient value to warrant the
expense and the inconvenience and annoyance involved. It was
pointed out that the adoption of the proposed modification would
not only result in substantial economies in operation, but would
relieve the referees of the difficulties which they are now encounter­
ing in attempting to comply with the involved and complex rules
governing the printing of such notices at government expense.
   The Conference approved the Committee's recommendation,
and directed that the proposed amendment be sub.:mitted to the
CongTess with recommendation by the Conference for, its enact­
ment.
   The resignations as members of the Conference Committee on
 Bankruptcy Administration of Judge Jerome Frank and Judge
                                 16 


William C. Coleman were submitted by the Committee's Chair­
man, Judge Phillips. After a vote of thanks by the Conference
for the service rendered, the resignations were accepted, and the
                                                                         ­
Chief Justice was authorized to appoint two new members to the
Committee to fill the vacancies created.
   Probation-Specific Problems of Juvenile Delinquency.--The
Director of the Administrative Office reviewed the report submit­
ted by the Conference Committee on Probation with Special
Reference to Juvenile Delinquency and, pursuant to his recom­
mendation, the Conference directed that the report of the Commit­
tee be circulated throughout the judiciary as information, and for
the purpose of discussion at the judicial conferences of the various
circuits.
   Criers and Bailiffs.-The Director of the Administrative Office
presented the problems confronting him with respect to the alloca­
tion of funds for criers for the various courts in view of the limita­
tions of the appropriations for such services. He stated that while
under the statute all district judges are entitled to have this form
of service, the funds appropriated therefor are not sufficient to
provide for such a number. In view of this situation, the Director
has been, so far as available funds will permit, filling requests for
this type of service on the basis of the order in which such requeets
are received.
   It "vas the sense of the Conference that the Director was pur­
suing the only equitable course open to him under the circum­
stances. It was emphasized that the provisions of the statute, as
well as the fact that the duties of bailiffs under the marshals are
being absorbed in many instances by the criers, should be brought
to the attention of the Congress in the hope that ample funds will
be made available to provide a full complement of this type of
officers for the courts.
   Ways and Means of Economy in the Operation of the Courts.­
The report of the Committee on Economies in Judicial Adminis­
tration of the Judicial Conference of the Eighth Judicial Circuit
was considered by the Conference, whereupon, the Conference,
without objection, adopted the following resolution:
        Resolved.-That the Judicial Conferences of the various
     circuits which have not already done so are requested to make
     a study of possible economies in operation similar to the study
     made in the Eighth Judicial Circuit and, upon completion
      thereof, submit a report with recommendations for the consid­
      eration of the Conference, and that
                                                 17 

            A committee of the Conference be appointed by the Chief
         Justice for the purpose of bringing together and coordinating
         the information so secured, and compiling and submitting a
         report with recommendations to the Conference at its next
         regular session.
       The Director of the Administrative Office was directed to cir­
    culate the report of the Conference Committee of the Eighth Judi­
    cial Circuit throughout the judiciary.
       Habeas Corpus.-Judge Parker, Chairman of the Conference
    Committee on Habeas Corpus, reported that, pursuant to Con­
    ference direction,G the proposed statutes relating to Habeas Corpus
    heretofore considered by the Conference had been submitted to all
    the Circuit and District Judges of the United States. The response
    thereto indicated that a substantial majority of the judges favored
    most of the features of the proposed statutes, but a considerable
    number were opposed to the provision for a three-judge court
    in certain cases.
       Since the special meeting of the Judicial Conference of Senior
    Circuit Judges last April, the House of Representatives has passed
    a bill, H. R. 3214, revising the Judicial Code, and this bill is now

-   before the Senate Judiciary Committee for consideration. Chapter
    153 of that codification deals with the subject of habeas corpus
    and incorporates most of the provisions contained in the proposals
    considered by the Conference and the judiciary.
       Because of the importance of securing some legislation along the
    Jines of the Conference proposals, it was the sense of the Commit­
    tee that it would be advisable to abandon, at least for the present,
    further consideration of the proposed statutes, and join in recom­
    mending the adoption of the provisions of Chapter 153 of H. R.
    3214, with the exception of two sections thereof, viz. 2244 and 2254.
    These sections deal with the finality of determination, and remedies
    in the State Courts, respectively. The Committee submitted for
     consideration amendments to these sections and recommended
     their adoption.
       Upon consideration of the Committee amendments, and the
     present provisions of § § 2244 and 2254 of Chapter 153 of H. R.
     3214, the Conference recommended that the present language of
     these sections be stricken and, in lieu thereof, the following be
     adopted:
      6   Cont. Rpts., 1043, pp. 22, 23; 1944. p. 22; 1945, p. 28; 1946, p. 21.
                                   18
     § 2244. FirwJity of Determination.
        No circuit or district judge or district court shall be required
     to entertain any application for a writ of habeas corpus to
     inquire ,into the detention of any person pursuant to a judg­
     ment of any court of the United States or of any State, if it
     appears that the legality of such detention has been deter­
     mined by a judge or court of the United States on a prior
     application for a writ of habeas corpus and the petition pre­
     sents no new ground not theretofore presented and determined,
     Sind the judge or court is satisfied that the ends of justice will
     not be served by such inquiry.
      § 2254. State Custody-Remedies in State Courts.
        An application for writ of habeas corpus in behalf of a person
     in.custody pursuant to the judgment of a state court shall not
     be granted unless it appears that the applicant has exhausted
      the remedies available in the courts of the state or that there
     is no adequate remedy available in such courts. An applicant
     shall not be deemed to have exhausted the remedies available
     in the courts of the state, within the meaning of this section,
     if he has the right under the law of the state to raise the ques­
     tion presented by any available procedure. The phrase "no
     adequate remedy" as used in this section means the absence
     oi state corrective process or the existence of exceptional cir­
     cumstances rendering such process ineffective to protect the
     rights of the prisoner.
   The recommendations of the Committee to desist from further
                                                                           ­
efforts to obtain the enactment of the statutes as heretofore con­
sidered by the Conference were approved, and the Conference di­
rected that the Congress be informed of its interest in the enact­
ment of Chapter 153 of H. R. 3214 with §§ 2244 and 2254 thereof
amended as hereinabove recommended.
   The Conference considered a proposal that 18 U. S. C. § 709a be
amended to provide that a defendant resentenced, after a void sen­
tence has been imposed, should be given credit for the time served
under the void sentence. Since § 709a has been construed to pro­
vide that the new sentence begins to run from the time the de­
fendant is received at the place of confinement for service of the
new sentence  eM   eyers v. Hunter [10 Cir.] 160 F. 2d 344; DeBenque
v. U. S. 66 App. D. C. 36, 85 F. 2d. 202) it was the opinion of the
Conference that the judges in fixing the term of a resentence will
take into consideration time served under the void sentence, and
that such amendment is unnecessary.
   Review of Orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission and
other Administrative Agencies, and Procedure for Three-Judge
                                          19 


Courts.-At its October 1946 session the Conference approved
three legislative proposals, one with respect to review of certain
orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission and the United
States Maritime Commission, one with respect to review of certain
orders of the Federal Communications Commission and ib.e Sec­
retary of Agriculture, and one amending certain provisions, of the
Urgent Deficiencies Act, and providing a uniform procedure for
constituting three-judge district courts.7
   The Chairman of the Conference Committee on Review of
Orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission and Other Ad­
ministrative Agencies, Judge Phillips, submitted the report of the
Committee concerning the status of these Conference proposals.
The Conference was informed that the proposals had been intro­
duced in the House of Representatives as H. R. 1468, H. R. 1470,
and H. R. 2271, and referred to the Committee on the Judieiary.
Hearings on the bills were held by a subcommittee of the Com­
mittee on the Judiciary, and after the adoption of two minor
amendments, which in nowise affected the substance of the bills,
the full Committee ordered the bills reported favorably. How­
ever, in seeking the attitude of the Attorney General with respect
to the proposals, the Committee was informed that the Depart­
ment favored two amendments to the bills, and because of the
Committee's desire to hear the Attorney General on the two amend­
ments, report of the bills was postponed.s
   The amendments proposed by the Department of Justice would
 (1) make the United States, rather than the administrative agency,
the respondent in proceedings for review, and give the Attorney
General, rather than the administrative agency which entered the
order, charge and control of the defense of review proceedings under
the act, and (2) would change the venue section and fix the venue
in the Circuit in which the party upon whose petition the order was
made by the administrative agency has his residence, rather than
the Circuit in which the petitioner for review resides.
   The Committee of the Conference in recommending disapproval
by the Conference of the Department's proposals reported, with
respect to the first amendment, that-
        We believe that the provision for unqualified right of inter­
     vention by the United States adequately protects the public
     interest and properly leaves the defense of the order chal­
 'Con!. Rpts., 1945. pp. 17, 18; 1946, pp. 16. 17.
 • WIth respect to the pOSition of the Department of Justice conr.erning the two amend·
ments, reference is made to the statement of the Attorney General.
                                   20

     lenged on review proceedings to the administrative agency
     which entered the order. Counsel for the administrative
     agency are usually experts in the field, and, in the normal case,
     take the laboring oar in the defense of proceedings challenging
     an order. When, in an exceptional case, it is deemed neces­
     sary in the public interest for the United States to become a
     party to the proceeding, the right of intervention is absolute,
     and the Department of Justice may intervene in the proceed­
     ing in behalf of the United States.
and, with respect to the second amendment, that-
        In the first place, it will not cover all cases which will arise.
     The administrative agencies make many orders in proceedings
     initiated by the agencies. In such cases, there is no "party
     upon whose petition the order was made." The old venue
     provision was involved and presented many problems of in­
      terpretation. The venue provision proposed by your com­
     mittee is plain and presents no problems of interpretation. To
      draw a venue provision making the residence of the party on
      whose application the order is entered determinative of venue,
      and then providing for the exceptions, or, in other words,
     improving the phraseology of the existing venue provision,
      would be most difficult. Your committee undertook to do
      that, and, after careful study, abandoned the effort and de­
     cided to make the residence of the petitioner for review deter­
      minative of venue. Once an order has been entered by the
      agency, the burden of defending litigation challenging the
                                                                            -
      order is carried either by counsel for the agency, or by the
      Department of Justice or both. The party on whose appli­
      cation the order is entered in the vast majority of cases is
      merely a nominal party.
   Whereupon the Conference reaffirmed its approval of the legis­
lative proposals previously recommended, and disapproved the
amendments suggested by the Attorney General to the Congress.
   Codification and Revimon of the Judicial Code.-Judge Maris,
Chairman of the Conference Committee on the Codification and
Revision of the Judicial Code, submitted a report of the Committee
and reviewed the work of the Committee during the past year.
A bill, incorporating the proposed revision of the Code, passed the
 House on July 7, 1947, and has been referred to a subcommittee of
 the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate. It is expected that
 early hearings will be had on the bill.
   The Conference reiterated its approval of the movement to cod­
ify and revise the Judicial Code, and directed that the Conference
 Committee continue to cooperate with the Congress to this end.
   Postwar Building Plans for the Quarters of the United States
                                     21 

    Courts.-The report of the Committee on Postwar Building Plans
    for the Quarters of the United States Courts was submitted and
    discussed by the Director of the Administrative Office.
       After consideration by the Conference of the proposals set forth
    by the Commissioner of Public Buildings, with respect to the "min­
    imum standards in non domiciled installations," and of the Com­
    mittee's report, the Conference disapproved the proposal of the
    Commissioner to reduce the public space in the courtrooms in such
    installations from 80 seats to 48 seats, and requested the Public
    Buildings Administration to provide facilities for the courts that
    are adequate.
      Admiralty Rules-...4mendments.-At the October 1946 Session
    of the Conference, the Committee to Consider the Amendments of
    the Admiralty Rules [Rules 51, 52, 53, and 54J proposed by the
    Maritime Law Association of the United States, submitted its
    report and stated that, with the exception of certain amendments
    adopted by the Committee which were mainly for the purpose of
    clarification, the recommendations of the Committee, in substance,
    followed the proposals of the Maritime Law Association of the
    United States. The general purpose of the amendments is to pro­
-   vide uniformity in limitations. The Conference requested the
 ." Committee to amend its proposed Rule 54 by adding a provision
    that would permit the court, in its discretion, to transfer the pro­
    ceedings to any district for the convenience of the parties, and that
    further report thereon be submitted to the Conference.
       The Committee reported that it had considered the amendment
    to Rule 54 proposed by the Conference, and was in accord there­
    with; also, that the proposed amendment had the approval of the
    Maritime Law Association.
       The Conference thereupon concurred in the Committee's pro­
    posals, and recommended that Rules 51, 52, 53, and 54 of the Su­
    preme Court Rules on Admiralty be amended to read as follows:
            RULE 51. Limitation of Liability-How Claimed.-The
         owner or owners of any vessel who shall desire to claim the
         benefit of limitation of liability provided for in the third and
         fourth sections of the Act of March 3, 1851, entitled "An Act
         to limit the liability of shipowners and for other purposes"
          (Sections 183 to 189 of Title 46 of the U. S. Code) as now or
         hereafter amended or supplemented, may file a petition in the
         proper District Court of the United States, as hereinafter
         specified. Such petition shall set forth the facts and circum­
         stances on which limitation of liability is ('laimed, and pray
                            22 

proper relief in that behalf. It shall also state facts showing
that the petition is filed in the proper district; the voyage on
which the demands sought to be limited arose, with the date
and place of its termination; the amount of all demands in­
cluding all unsatisfied liens or claims of lien, in contract or
in tort, arising on that voyage, so far as known to the peti­
tioner, and what suits, if any, are pending thereon; whether
the vessel was damaged, lost or abandoned, and, if so, when
and where; the value of the vessel at the close of the voyage
or, in case of wreck, the value of her wreckage, strippings or
proceeds, if any, and where and in whose possession they are;
and the amount of any pending freight recovered or recover~
able. If any of the above particulars are not fully known to
the petitioner, a statement of such particulars according to the
best knowledge, information, and belief of the petitioner shall
be sufficient. With his petition the petitioner may, if he so
elects, file an interim stipulation, with sufficient sureties or an
approved corporate surety, for the payment into court when­
ever the court shall so order, of the aggregate amount of the
value of petitioner's interest in the vessel at the close of the
voyage or, in case of wreck, the value of the wreckage, strip­
pings or proceeds, and of any pending freight recovered or re­
coverable, with interest at six percent per annum from the date
of the stipulation, and costs. If such interim stipulation iR
filed, it shall be accompanied by an affidavit or affidavits of a .­
competent person or persons corroborating the statement in
the petition as to value of the vessel, or her wreckage, etc.,
and her freight. Said court, having caused due appraisement
to be had of the value of petitioner's interest in the vessel,
or her wreckage, etc., and her freight shall make an order for
the payment of the same into court, or for the giving of a
stipulation, with sufficient sureties or an approved corporate
surety, for the payment thereof into court with interest at
six percent per annum from the date of the stipUlation,
whether interim or final, and costs, whenever the same shall
 be ordered; or, if the petitioner shall so elect, the court with­
out such appraisement shall make an order for the transfer by
 the petitioner of his interest in such vessel, or her wreckage,
etc., and freight to a trustee to be appointed by the court under
the fourth section of said Act.
   If a surrender of petitioner's interest in the vessel or her
wreckage, etc., is offered to be made to a trustee, the petition
must further show any prior paramount liens thereon, and
 what voyage or trips, if any, she has made since the voyage
 or trip on which the claims sought to be limited arose, and
 any existing liens arising upon any such subsequent voyage
 or trip, with the amounts and causes thereof, and the names
and addresses of the lienors, so far as known; and whether the
     vessel sustained any injury upon or by reason of such subse­
     quent voyage or trip.
        Upon the filing of such interim stipulation, or upon deter­
     mination of value by appraisal and compliance with the court's
     order with respect thereto, or upon compliance with a sur­
     render order, as the case may be, the court shall issue a moni­
     tion against all persons asserting claims in respect to which the
     petition seeks limitation, citing them to file their respective
     claims with the Clerk of said court and to serve on or mail to
     the proctors for the petitioner a copy thereof on or before a
     date to be named in said writ which shall be not less than 30
     days after issuance of the same, which time the court, for
     cause shown, may enlarge.
        Notice of the monition shall be published in such news­
     paper or newspapers as the court by rule or order may direct
     in substantially the following form, once in each week for four
     successive weeks before the return day of the monition:
                          UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

                                    DISTRICT OF

     NOTICE OF PETITION FOR EXONERATION FROM OR LIMITATION OF
                              LIABILITY



-
                         (Filed ................ ) 

        Notice is given that .................. has filed a petition
     pursuant to Title 46, U. S. Code, §§ 183-189, claiming the
     right to exoneration from or limitation of liability for all claims
     arising on the voyage of the vessel ....................... .
     from . . . . . . . . . . . to . . . . . . . . . . . terminating on .......... .
        All person having such claims must file them, under oath, as
     provided in United States Supreme Court Admiralty Rule 52,
     with the Clerk of this Court, at the U. S. Court House
     at ................ and serve on or mail to the petitioner's
     proctors ............ at .,. . . . . . . . . . .. a copy on or be­
     fore .............. or be defaulted. Personal attendance
     is not required.                                           .
        Any claimant desiring to contest the claims of petitioner
     must file an answer to said petition, as required by Supreme
     Court Admiralty Rule 53, and serve on or mail to petitioner's
     proctors a copy.
                                                    U. S. Marshal.
        The petitioner not later than the day of second publication
     shall also mail a copy of the above notice (copy of the moni­
     tion need not be mailed) to every person known to have made
     any claim against the vessel or the petitioner arising out of the
                             24 


voyage or trip on which the claims sought to be limited arose.
In cases involving death a copy of such notice, together with
a copy of Rule 52, shall be mailed to the decedent at his last­
known address, and also to any person who shall be known to
have made any claim on account of such death.
   The said court shall also, on the application of the petitioner,
make an order to restrain the further prosecution of all and
any suit or suits against the petitioner and/or said vessel in
respect to any claim or claims subject to limitation in the
proceeding.
   RULE 52. Filing and Proof of Claim in Limited Liability
Proceedings.-Claims shall be filed with the Clerk of the Court
in writing under oath and a copy shall be served upon the
proctor for the petitioner on or before the return day of the
monition. Each claim shall specify the various allegations
of fact upon which the claimant relies in support of his claim,
the items thereof, and the dates on which the same accrued.
Within thirty days after the return day of the monition or
within such time as the Court thereafter may allow, the peti­
tioner shall mail to the proctor for each claimant (or if the
claimant have no proctor to the claimant himself) a list set­
ting forth (a) the name of each claimant, (b) the name and
address of his proctor or attorney (if he is known to have one),
(c) the nature of his claim, i. e., whether property loss, prop­
erty damage, death, personal injury, etc., and (d) the amount
thereof.
   Whenever an interim stipulation has been filed as provided
in Rule 51, any person claiming damages as aforesaid, who
shall have filed his claim under oath, may file an exception
controverting the value of the vessel at the close of the voyage,
or, in case of wreck, the value of her wreckage, strippings or
proceeds, and the amount of her pending freight, and the
amount of the interim stipulation based thereon, and there­
upon the court shall cause due appraisement to be had of the
value of petitioner's interest in the vessel, or her wreckage,
etc., and her freight; and if the court finds that the amount
of the interim stipulation is either insufficient or excessive.
the court shall make an order for the payment of the proper
amount into court or, as the case may be, for a reduction in
the amount of the stipulation or for the giving of an additional
stipulation.
   Proof of all claims which shall be filed in pursuance of said
monition shall thereafter be made before a commissioner to
be designated by the court, or before the court as the court
may determine, subject to the right of any person interested to
question or controvert the same; but no objection to any claim
need be filed by any party to the proceeding; and on the com­
pletion of said proofs, the commissioner shall make report, or
                                  25 


     the court its findings on the claims so proven, and on confirma­
     tion of said commissioner's report, after hearing any exceptions
     thereto, or on such finding by the court, the moneys paid or
     secured to be paid into court as aforesaid or the proceeds of
     said vessel, or her wreckage, etc., and freight (after payment
     of costs and expenses) shall upon determination of liability be
     divided pro rata, subject to all provisions of law thereto apper­
     taining, amongst the several claimants in proportion to the
     amount of their respective claims, duly proved and confirmed
     as aforesaid, saving, however, to all parties any priority to
     which they may be legally entitled.
        RULE 53. Rights of Owner to Contest Liability and of
     Claimants to Contest Exoneration from Liability or Limita­
     tum of Liability of Owner.-In the proceedings aforesaid, the
     petitioner shall be at liberty to contest his liability, or the
     liability of said vessel, provided he shall have complied with
     the requirements of Rule 51 and shall also have given a bond
     for costs and provided that in his petition he shall state the
     facts and circumstances by reason of which exoneration from
     liability is claimed; and any person claiming damages as
     aforesaid who shall have filed his claim under oath and intends
     to contest the right to exoneration or limitation, shall file an
     answer to such petition, and serve a copy on proctor for peti­
     tioner, and may contest the right of the owner or owners of said
.-   vessel, either to an exoneration from liability or to a limitation
     of liability under the said Act of Congress, or both, provided
     such answer shall in suitable allegations state the facts and
     circumstances by reason of which liability is claimed or right
     to limitation should be denied.
        RULE 54. Courts Having Cognizance of Limited Liability
     Procedure.-The said petition shall be filed and the said pro­
     ceedings had in any District Court of the United States in
     which said vessel has been libeled to answer for any claim in
     respect to which the petitioner seeks to limit liability; or, if
     the said vessel has not been libeled, then in the District Court
     for any district in which the owner has been sued in respect
     to any such claim. When the said vessel has not been libeled
     to answer the matters aforesaid, and suit has not been com­
     menced against the said owner, the said proceedings may be
     had in the District Court of the district in which the said ves­
     sel may be, but if said vessel is not within any district and
     no suit has been commenced in any district, then the petition
     may be filed in any District Court. The District Court may,
     in its discretion, transfer the proceedings to any district for
     the convenience of the parties. If the vessel shall have
     already been sold, the proceeds shall represent the same for
     the purposes of these rules.
                                26 

   Regulation of Admi.s.sion to the Bar of the Federal Courts by
Uniform Rules.-The report of the Conference Committee to con­
sider the advisability of regulating admission to the bar of the
federal courts by uniform rules was submitted and discussed by
its Chairman, Judge McAllister. The Conference concurred in
the Committee's conclusion, and agreed that it is inadvisable to
regulate admission to the bar of the federal courts by uniform rules
at this time. The Conference ordered and directed that the report
of the Committee be circulated throughout the judiciary as a
matter of information and interest.
   Judge McAllister presented a letter from Judge Beaumont, a
member of the Conference Committee, with a memorandum from
the Committee with respect to the probable desirability of having
the Boards of Bar Examiners of the various states incorporate
questions pertaining to procedure in federal courts in their exami­
nations and suggested that the matter be taken under advisement
by the Conference. The Conference ordered the letter and memo­
randum accepted for further consideration in the future.
   Judicial Statistic,~.-The report of the Committee on Judicial
Statistics was presented and reviewed by Mr. Shafroth, Chief of
the Division of Procedural Studies and Statistics of the Adminis­
trative Office of the United States Courts.
   Emphasis was placed upon the importance of the experiments
now being conducted by the Committee and the Administrative
Office in an endeavor to develop a more satisfactory and practical
method of weighing the case load in the various courts. The
present method of merely reporting the number of cases filed and
the number of cases disposed of does not reflect the true picture
with respect to the relative amount of work in each district. It
was urged that the judiciary continue the cooperation it has evi­
denced in the past in connection with this particular undertaking.
   A review of the progress made in statistical reporting, and a
statement concerning the value of the data accumulated by the
Administrative Office reflected a satisfactory condition. The re­
port of the Committee was ordered received and filed as submitted.
   Estimates for Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1949.-The Di­
rector of the Administrative Office submitted the budget estimates
covering the requirements of the judiciary for fiscal year 1949. In
reviewing the estimates, the Director called attention to the fact
that the Appropriation Acts for the past three years have provided
for salaries for law clerks to circuit and district judges which, in
                                            27 


some instances, were in excess of the limitations prescribed by the
provisions of the basic acts for these employees (28 U. S. C. 222a
and 128), and that, in the preparation of the estimates for fiscal
1949, the Administrative Office was following the previous Appro­
priation Acts.
   It was the sense of the Conference that the budget estimates for
1949 should reflect an amount for salaries of law clerks that would
be within the provisions of the basic acts, plus increases authorized
by the Federal Employees' Pay Acts of 1945 and 1946, and the
Director of the Administrative Office was directed to amend his
budget estimates accordingly.
   The Conference thereupon approved the estimates, as amended.
   Legislative Proposals Reaffirmed.-The Conference reaffirmed
its previous recommendation regarding proposed legislation relat­
ing to the following:
        1. Sentencing and parole of youthful offenders.s
        2. The removal of civil disabilities of probationers fulfilling
      the terms of their probation}O
        3. Treatment of insane persons charged with crime in the
      Federal Courts.l l
        4. Providing proper representation in Federal Courts for
      protection of the rights of indigent litigants.12
        5. Providing for the transfer of jurisdiction of probationers
      under supervision from one district to another with the con­
      currence of the courts of both districts.I 8
   Pretrial Procedure.-The several circuit judges reviewed the ex­
perience had in their respective circuits concerning pretrial pro­
cedure methods. It was the sense of the Conference that the Con­
ference Committee on Pretrial Procedure should be reconstituted
and reactivated.

  The Conference directed that the material and data submitted
by the Attorney General with reference to his proposal concerning
the adoption of uniform rules for all Circuit Courts of Appeals
regulating particularly the preparation and contents of printed
records on appeal and of appellate briefs, be circulated by the
Director to the members of the Conference.
  • Coni. Rpts" 1948, p. 26; Sept. 1944, pp. 15, 16; 1945, p. 22; 1946. pp. 18, 19. 

  ,. Con!. Rpts., 1942, p. 12; Sept. 1944, pp. 21, 22; 1945, p. 25; 1946, pp. 19, 20. 

  11 Coni. Rpt., Oct. 1946, p. 18. 

  n Conf. Rpts., 1945, p. 21; 1946, p. 22. 

  ll! Coni. Rpts., 1945, p. 28; 1946, p. 20. 

                                 28
                            COMMITTEES

    The Conference authorized the Chief Justice to fill all existing
 committee vacancies, and to designate the membership of any new
 or reconstituted committees.
   Committees Continued.-All present committees of the Confer.:.
 ence were continued with the exception of the Committee on a
 Special Court of Patent Appeals.
   Committees Discontinued.-The Committee on a Special Court
 of Patent Appeals was discontinued, the Chief Justice to reconsti~
 tute the Committee whenever he deems it necessary.
   Committee Appointments.-Pursuant to Conference action, the
Chief Justice made the following committee assignments:
    Committee on Pretrial Procedure.-Circuit Judge Alfred P.
 Murrah, Chairman; District Judges Bolitha J. Laws, Paul J. Mc­
Cormick, William H. Kirkpatrick, and John C. Knox.
   Committee on Ways and ~Means of Economy in Operation of the
 Courts.-Circuit Judge John J. Parker, Chairman; Circuit Judges,
Joseph C. Hutcheson and William Healy; District Judges, George
C. Sweeney, Robert A. Inch, Phillip Forman, Frank L. Kloeb, John
P. Barnes, John W. Delehant, Arthur J. Mellot, and Thomas
Jennings Bailey.
   The Chief Justice designated District Judges Alfred C. Coxe and
Seybourn H. Lynne as members of the Committee on Bankruptcy
Administration, succeeding Circuit Judge Jerome N. Frank, and
District Judge William C. Coleman, resigned.
   The Chief Justice designated Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips as a
member of the Advisory Committee of the Conference, succeeding
Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone, retired.
   Advisory Committee.-The Conference continued the commit­
tee consisting of the Chief Justice, Judges Biggs, Parker, and
Phillips, and Chief Justice Groner, to advise and assist the Director
in the performance ·of his duties.
   The Conference declared a recess, subject to the call of the Chief
Justice.
   For the Judicial Conference:
                                                FRED      M.    VINSON,
                                                               Chief Justice.
  Dated: Washington, D. C., November 17,1947.

                                        u, s.   t:.oOVERNMEHl PRINTING OFFICE: 1947
