          REPORT 

   OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

            OF A 

     SPECIAL MEETING 

           OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 



              *

      MARCH 24-25, 1949 

       WASHINGTON, D. C. 

            TITLE 28. UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 33L
§ 331. JudicIal Conference of the United States.
  Tbe Ohief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judges
of the judicial circuits to a conference at such time and place in the United
States as he may designate. He shall preside at such conference which shall be
known as the JudicIal Conference of the United States.
  If the chief judge of any circuit is unable to att.enjl, the Chief Justice may
summon any other circuit or district judge from such'circuit. Every judge sum­
moned shall attend and, unless excused by the Ohief Justice, shall remain
throughout the conference and advise as to the needs of his circuit and as to any
matters in respect of which the administration of justice in the courts of the
United States may be improved.
  The Oonference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business
in the courts of the United States and pl;epare plans for assignment of judges to
or from circuits or districts where necessary. and shall submit suggestions to
the various courts, in the interest of uniformity and expedition of business.
  The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Ohief Justice, report to such
conference on matters relating to the bUsiness of the several courts of the
United States, with particular reference to cases to which the United States is
a party.
  Tbe Cblef Justice shall submit to Oongress an annual report of the proceedings
of the Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.
                                      (U)
  The Judicial Conference of the United States, pursuant to action
taken at its regular annual meeting in September, 1948, recon­
vened, upon the call of the Chief Justice, on Thursday, March 24,
1949. The following were present:
  The Chief Justice, presiding;
       Circuit:
           District of Columbia______       Chief J"udge Harold 1\£. Stephens.
           First_____________________       Chief J"udge Calvert Magruder.
           Second___________________        Chief J"udge Learned Hand. 

           Third____________________        Chief J"udge J"ohn Biggs, J"r. 

           Fourth___________________        Chief J"udge J"ohn J". Parker. 

           Fifth_____________________       Chief J"udge J"oseph C. Hutcheson.· 

           Sixth..,____________________     Chief J"udge Xenophon Hicks. 

           Seventh__________________        Circuit J"udge F. Ryan Duffy.·· 

           Eighth_________________..,.      Chief J"udge Archibald K. Gardner. 

           Ninth________;..___________      Chief J"udge William Denman. 

           Tenth___________________         Chief Judge Ode L. Phillips. 

  "Judge Hutcheson. because of previous engagements which could not conveniently be re­
arranged, was excused from attending the second day at the conference. March 25th.
  "Chief Judge J. Earl Major of the Seventh Circuit was unable to attend; Circuit Judge
F. Ryan Duffy attended in his stead.

  Chief Judge Bolitha J. Laws of the District Court, District of
Columbia, and District Judge Campbell E. Beaumont of the
Southern District of California, attended various sessions of the
Conference and participated in some of its discussions.            .
  Henry P. Chandler, Director, Elmore Whitehurst, Assistant
Director, Will Shafroth, Chief, Division of Procedural Studies and
Statistics, and Edwin L. Covey, Chief, Bankruptcy Division, and
members of their respective staffs, all of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts, were in attendance throughout the
meeting.1
  Paul L. Kelley, Executive Secretary to the Chief Justice, served
as Secretary of the meeting.
                  FEDERAL COURTS-JUDGESHIPS
                       DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
  Court of Appeals.-Chief Judge Stephens urged the Conference
to reconsider its action with respect to additional judgeships for
  1 For convenience, the Director ot the Admln1strative omce ot the United States Courts,
and the Administrative Omce at the United States Courts, are hereinafter referred to as the
Director, and the Administrative Oillce. respectively.
      882594-49                            (1)
                                 2


this court and to approve its request for three additional judge­
ships, in lieu of the two approved by the Conference at its Sep­
tember, 1948, meeting.
   It was stated that, since the last meeting of the Conference, a
further study· of the subject matter had been made by the court
and it was unanimous in the conclusion that three additional
judges were not only needed, but necessary if currency of docket
was to be reached and maintained. In the court's opinion, the
volume of present business was, in itself, sufficient justification
for the requested increase in manpower, and, with the greater case
docketing that an analysis of current and anticipated business in
the lower courts of the circuit reflected, it was warranted.
   Upon consideration of the statistical data submitted and other
relevant factors, the Conference recommended that there be cre­
ated three additional permanent judgeships for the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
   District Court.-Chief Judge Laws of the District Court, District
of Columbia, appealed to the Conference to lend its approval to
the bill recently introduced in the House of Representatives (H. R.
3239) providing for three additional pennanent judgeships for
this court.
   Statistics as to case load, median time averages, and other mate­
rial data were submitted to and considered by the Conference.
Relevant factors, impossible of reflection in the statistical presen­
tation, were presented and stressed by Judge Laws and Chief Judge
Stephens. A review of results achieved through the adoption of
improved procedural methods, as well as the over-all operational
plan, indicated a high degree of efficiency in the management and
administration of the court's affairs.
   It was the view of the Conference that the three additional
jUdgeships provided for this court under the provisions of H. R.
3239 were justified. The Conference, thereupon, approved the bill
and recommended its prompt enactment.
                           SIXTH CIRCUIT
  Northern District of Ohio.-Chief Judge Hicks requested the
Conference to recommend the prompt elimination of existing statu­
tory provisions (55 Stat. 148) under which the filling of the first
vacancy occurring in this district is prohibited. In support of his
request, Judge Hicks reviewed the volume of business in this
                                  3

 district since the last judgeship was authorized, May 1, 1941, and
.submitted statistical data for the consideration of the Conference.
   I t was the sense of the Conference that experience has indicated
 beyond doubt the necessity for the present four district judgeships
 in this particular district and that they should all be on a perma­
 nent basis. Whereupon, the Conference approved the recommen­
 dation proposed.
                          NINTH CIRCUIT
   Southern District 0/ Cali/ornia.-District Judge CampbellE.
Beaumont and Chief Judge William Denman asked the Conference
to reconsider its action upon the recommendations for additional
judgeships for this district and to approve the request for two
additional judgeships, in lieu of one approved by the Conference
at its September, 1948, meeting.
   The Conference was informed of certain developments occurring
since its last meeting which have materially affected the adequacy
of the "judge-power" of the court; statistics and other relevant
data were submitted which indicated a continuation of the in­
creased trend in case docketing and volume of business.
   Upon consideration of the statements and data presented, the
Conference approved the request for two additional judgeships for
this district.

    The Conference directed that the Congress be immediately noti­
 fied of its action with respect to the foregoing federal judgships,
 and urged the prompt enactment of legislation necessary to
.achieve the results desired.
       SUPPORTING PERSONNEL OF THE COURTS
   Salaries-Director and Assistant Director 0/ the Administrative
Office.-The Conference was informed that increases in the salaries
of these officers are carried in the bill pending in Congress covering
salary increase for officers in the Executive Branch of the
Government.
   National Park Commissioners.-The Director stated that, effec­
tive July 1, 1943, this group of employees was transferred from the
appropriations for the Interior Department to the appropriations
for the Judiciary, and brought under the general promotional plan
for within-grade promotions for the supporting personnel of the
courts which had been adopted by the Conference.
                                  4

   In view of the provisions of Sec. 634 (Title 28 U. S. Code) of the
 new Judicial Code under which the salaries of these employees are
 "to be fiXed by the district courts with the approval of the Judicial
 Conference of the United States," and the divergency of views
 that has arisen between the interested district judges concerning
 various problems incident to the salary question, it appeared advis­
 able to have the subject-matter reopened and a further study made
 for the purpose of ascertaining a proper salary-employment plan
.for these employees.
   Upon motion, the Conference directed that the Committee on
 Supporting Personnel make a study of the problems involved and
 submit a report, together with recommendations, to the Confer­
 ence at its next meeting. The Director was authorized to contact
 the various district judges having this class of employee within
 their districts to obtain their views and suggestions, and to make
 a report thereon to the Committee of the Conference to which the
 matter had been referred.
   Changes in court reporting arrangements.-Chief Judge Den­
 man submitted for Conference consideration a proposal to change
 the present arrangements for court reporters for the Districts of
 Idaho and Montana so that the present combination positions of
 secretary-law clerk-court reporter will combine only the duties
 incident to those of secretary and court reporter. Reports relative
 to the present situation were submitted by Judge Denman and
 the Director. It was stated that due to the volume of business
 in each district, the work would be materially expedited and the
 general efficiency substantially improved in the event the pro­
 posed changes were authorized.
   Thereupon, the Conference directed that, effective immediately,
 the courts in each of the districts specified be authorized to make
 the proposed changes in the position arrangements, and that the
 salary for each of the new secretary-court reporter positions be
 $5,000 per annum.
    Commission on mental health-District of Columbia.-Chief
 Judge Stephens presented the recommendation of the Judicial
 Council of the District of Columbia Circuit that legislation be
 enacted providing for the transfer of the budgetary affairs of this
 agency to the Administrative Office. It was pointed out that the
.members of this commission are appointed by the Judges of the
 District Court; that their duties are to examine into the sanity
 of persons alleged to be insane, and, in case of their insanity, to
 make recommendations in reference to their care and the mode of
 defraying the expense involved. Under statute, they are re­
 quired to act in all respects under the direction of the Equity
 Court, which means the District Court, and their recommenda­
 tions are filed with the court, and determination of action to be
 taken is for the court. In other words, the transfer would, in
 effect, place the budgetary affairs of this commission, which is
 truly an arm of the District Court, under the proper supervisory
 agency.
    The recommendation had the full concurrence of both the Dis­
 trict Court and the Judicial Council.
    The Conference concurred in the recommendations presented,
 and directed that efforts be made to secure the enactment of such
 legislation as may be necessary to carry them out.
    Retirement Act-Excluding temporary employee8 therefrom.­
 The Assistant Director advised that under existing provisions of
 the Retirement Act all employees of the Judicial Branch, regard­
 less of tenure of service, are brought within the purview of the
 Act. He urged that, in order to eliminate the useless labor and
 expense incurred incident to the collecting and accounting for
 retirement deductions from the salaries of temporary employees,
 which deductions are required to be refunded, the Administrative
Office be authorized to seek the necessary legislative authority
whereby such employees will be excluded from the provisions of
 the Retirement Act. He pointed out that such authority exists
in the Executive Branch, and, for all practical purposes, there is
no reason why similar authority should not be extended to the
Judicial Branch.
    The Conference authorized the Director to make effort to secure
 the desired legislative authority in whatever manner he deemed
the most practical and expedient.
       WAYS AND MEANS OF ECONOMIES IN THE 

            OPERATION OF THE COURTS 

  Court Record8-Maintenance and Keeping of.-The Assistant
Director called attention to the request of the Chief Judge and
Clerk of the United States District Court for the District of Colum­
bia for authorization to install a system for microfilming certain
records of the Court. In this connection, it was stated that, since
                                 6


July 1, 1948, the Administmtive Office, in conjunction with the
Clerk of this court, had been conducting an experiment in micro­
filming certain of the court's records, and the results obtained
therefrom exceeded their utmost expectations. As an illustration
of some of the economies which would ensue from the installation
of the proposed system, it was estimated that the cost of the new
system would be less than one dollar for every twenty-five dollars
of costs under the present sytem; that one file cabinet, approxi­
mating 3' x 3' x 6' in size, would provide adequate and sufficient
storage space for the records involved for thirty-five years-the
records under the present system would require 1,300 cubic feet of
space, whereas, under the new system, they would require only 54
cubic feet; that the business of the court would be considerably ex­
pedited, and the services to the bar and litigants materially im­
proved. Samples of the film records, and reproductions therefrom
were displayed-the mechanics of operation were thoroughly dis­
cussed and explained by the Assistant Director.
   After consideration of the whole SUbject-matter, the Confer­
ence authorized the issuance of the following directive by the
Director.
   Rule 79 (b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, as amended,
provides as follows:
           The Clerk shall keep in such form and manner as the
        Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
        Courts with the approval of the Judicial Conference of
        Senior Circuit Judges may prescribe, a correct copy of every
        final judgment or appealable order, or order affecting title
        to or lien upon real or personal property, and any other
        order which the court may direct to be kept.
   Rule 55 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure provides
as follows:
          The Clerk of the district court and each United States
       Commissioner shall keep such records in criminal proceed­
        ings as the Director of the Administrative Office of the
        United States Courts, with the approval of the Judicial
       Conference of Senior Circuit Judges, may prescribe.
  Pursuant to these rules, I, as Director of the Administrative
Office of the United States Courts, with the approval of the Judi­
cial Conference of the United States, prescribe that the Clerk of the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, in lieu
                                            7

         of minute books and order books, shall maintain microfilm repro­
         ductions, suitably indexed, of the following records of his office:
            1. In all civil cases and proceedings except adoption proceed­
         ings, each judgment and order.
           2. In criminal cases and proceedings, each judgment, order, in­
         dictment, bond, and all other formal entries of Court transactions.
                       BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATION
            The Chief of the Bankruptcy Division of the Administrative
         Office, Mr. Edwin L. Covey, presented the following matters for
         the consideration of the Conference:
            Appointment of Referees.-A recommendation for the appoint­
         ment of a part-time referee, in addition to the present full-time
         referee, for the District of Connecticut, with headquarters at
         Bridgeport at a salary of $3,500 per annum.
            The Conference deferred action upon this recommendation until
         its next meeting. It directed that additional data relating to the
         volume of business in the area proposed to be served by this part­
         time referee be submitted at that time.
            Changes in Bankruptcy Arrangements-Northern Di8trict of
         California.-A recommendation that the counties of San Francisco,
......   San Mateo, and Santa Cruz be incorporated in the territory to be
         served by the referees located at San Francisco and Oakland.
            The Conference directed that the suggested change be made.
            Southern District of California.-A recommendation that Ven­
         tura and San Louis Obispo be designated as additional places of
         holding court for the referees serving the central division of this
         district.
            The Conference directed that the suggested designations be
         made, effective immediately.
            Salaries of Referees-District of N evada.-A recommendation
          that the salary of the part-time referee for this district be increased
         from $1,800 to $2,400 per annum, effective April 1, 1949.
            Upon consideration of the data submitted with respect to the
         increase in volume of business; the increase in number of hours
         required for the proper disposition of the business involved; the
          character of the case load; the territory served, and the time the
         referee is required to be away from "home" headquarters, the Con­
         ference approved the proposed increase in salary for the referee
         in this district, effective April 1, 1949.
                                 8


   Fees-Refund of Filing.-A recommendation that the resolu         M




tion adopted by the Conference at its last meeting with respect         ..
to the effect of dismissal of a bankruptcy proceeding upon the          ~
filing fees paid, be amended, so that the resolution, as amended,
will read as follows:
           Resolved, It is the sense of the Conference that no part
        of the filing fee of $45.00 paid upon the filing of a bank­
        ruptcy proceeding is refundable upon the subsequent dis­
        missal of the proceedings, except the $5.00 trustee's fee
        deposited in cases where no trustee is appointed, and that
        opinions rendered by the Administrative Office relating to
        the collection of additional and special charges for the
        referees' salary and expense funds in dismissed cases should
        be distributed to all referees and clerks of courts for their
        information. [Amendatory language in italics.]
    Mr. Covey pointed out that the reason for the amendment was
the fact that the resolution as previously adopted contemplated
only those proceedings dismissed after the appointment'of a trustee
which is the usual situation. Occasionally, however, a proceeding
will be dismissed without a trustee being appointed. Section 48c
of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended (U. S. C. Title 11, c. 5, § 76
(c)), provides that the trustee's fee of $5.00, which is part of the    -

filing fee of $45.00, shall be paid to him after his services are
rendered. It has been the practice in all cases administered with­
out a trustee, to refund this $5.00 to the party paying the filing
fee.
    The Conference adopted the resolution as amended and aU         M




thorized its immediate promulgation.
       LEGISLATION AFFECTING THE JUDICIARY
  Administrative Court of the United States.-The attention of
the Conference was directed to Senate Bill No. 684, introduced
in the Senate of the United States by Senator Pat McCarran on
January 27, 1949, Uto improve the administration of justice by
the creation of an Administrative Court of the United States".
  It appearing that the proposed legislation would affect various
courts of the federal judiciai-y, it was the sense of the Conference
that the proposal should be submitted, in accordance with the
policy of the Conference, to all district and circuit Judges, so that
the Conference may be informed of their views, and the Director
was authorized and directed to forward immediately a copy of
the bill to each of them.
                                     9

        The Conference further directed that a Committee of the Con~
     ference be designated by the Chief Justice for the purpose of
     correlating the views and opinions of the various judges, and to
     make recommendations to the Conference with respect to what
     action, if any, should be taken concerning the proposal.
        Sound Recording of Court Proceedings.-H. R. 3475, intro~
     duced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Hobbs
     under date of March 11, 1949, "to provide for the recording of
     the proceedings in one of the courtrooms of the United States Dis~
     trict Court for the District of Columbia by sound~recording equip~
     ment; and for the reproduction of the sounds of such proceedings,
     in whole or in part, in the United States Court of Appeals for the
     District of Columbia and in the Supreme Court of the United
     States upon the review of any such case" was considered by the
     Conference.
        The Conference directed that the subjec~matter be referred
     to a Committee of the Conference to be designated by the Chief
     Justice for a study and consideration insofar as it concerns the
     district courts and courts of appeal, and that such Committee sub­
     mit a report and recommendations to the Conference.
        Picketing of the Courts.-The subject of picketing the courts
-'   and a bill introduced in the House of Representatives by Con­
     gressman Boggs, of Louisiana, under date of March 10, 1949, "to
     prohibit the picketing of courts" (H. R. 3438), were considered
     by the Conference. Whereupon, the following resolution was
     adopted:
             Resolved, That we condemn the practice of picketing
           the courts, and believe that effective means should be taken
           to prevent it;
             That the subject matter be referred to the district and
           circuit judges for discussion for the purpose of obtaining
           their views; and
             That a Committee of the Conference be appointed to
           make a study of the matter and to make recommendations
           to the Conference with respect to action to be taken thereon.
                      LEGISLATION PROPOSED
       Rules-Manner of promUlgating rules of procedure.-The Con­
     ference Committee on the Revision and Codification of the Judi­
     cial and Criminal Codes filed an interim report advising that in
     the course of its work in collaborating with the revision staff
     of the Congressional committees in preparation of the bill for the
                                 10 

~correction of errors and ambiguities in Titles 18 and 28 of the
United States Code, two matters had come to its attention with
respect to which it submitted definite recommendaions for the
consideration of the Conference.
   The first recommendation related to the requirements prescribed
by the code for the promulgation of rules of procedure in criminal,
civil and admiralty cases, respectively, by the Supreme Court.
The Committee stated that in its work it had been forcefully
brought home that the procedural requirements of the statute for
the adoption of rules and/or amendments thereto is unduly cum­
bersome and burdensome and involves inordinate delay in their
effectuation.
   It was emphasized that, while amendments to the rules may
be adopted by the Supreme Court at any time, the statutes specify
that they may not be put into force until after they have been
reported (through the Attorney General) to Congress "at the
beginning of a regular session and until after the close of such
session." As the regular sessions under law begin on January 3rd,
this means that the amendments must be adopted and transmitted
to the Congress prior to January 3rd, and the amendments so
adopted, regardless of their nature, cannot go into effect until some
considerable time later, averages of recent Congreses show a
period of from eight to eleven months. Further, if the need for a
change in the rules should develop any time after "the beginning
of the regular session", say on January 4, a correcting amendment
could not, in the first place, be submitted to the Congress until the
beginning of its next regular session, or the following January 3rd,
and, of course, would not become effective until the adjournment
of that session, or, based on recent experience, until approximately
one and three quarters years later.
   The Committee called attention to the fact that the Congress
originally stipulated for the full period of the regular session in
order that it could have ample time to consider the Rules of Civil
Procedure if they should combine law and equity, a very major
controversial change. Inasmuch as comprehensive Criminal and
Civil Rules are in effect today and the only amendments that are
likely to arise are those covering particular problems within the
framework of existing rules, the Committee was of the opinion
that a lesser period of time would suffice for not only the proper
Congressional consideration, but to afford those interested in the
amendments to make known their views with respect thereto.
                                      11 

           Under § 132 of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 it
        is the plan for Congress to adjourn sine die not later than July
...;' 	 31st of each year, unless it otherwise provides. Assuming July
        31st as the adjournment date, this would mean that amendments.
        to the rules could be reported to the Congress as late Wi:! May 1st
        and the Congress would still have three full months of sessions in
        which to consider them before adjournment. It was the sense of
        the· committee, considering the character of amendments that
        ordinarily could be anticipated in view of the existing rules, a
        ninety-day period would be. ample for aU concerned.. Accord­
        ingly, the committee recommended that the Conference propose to
        the Congress the enactment of an act amending § 3771 of Title
        18 U. S. C., and§§ 2072 and 2073 of Title 2880 as to provide that
        rules of procedure adopted by the Supreme Court may be reported
        to Congress at any regular session up to but not later than May 1st
        and may take effect ninety days after the date on which they are
        so reported.
           In addition to the foregoing suggested changes, the Chief Justice
        should be substituted for the Attorney General as the agent for
        transmitting the rules to the Congress. It was urged that the
.-	 present provisions under which the Attorney General is required
~ to act as the transmitting agent between the Supreme Court and
        Congress is wholly unnecessary and is inconsistent with the plan
        of Title 28 under which the Attorney General no longer acts in
        any capacity as an administrative officer for the Federal courts.
           The Conference recommended that efforts be made to have the
        necessary legislation enacted.
           The second recommendation related to a revision of the Admi­
        ralty Rules. The committee reported that a study and review of
        the present Admiralty Rules indicated that they are no longer
        wholly adequate or sufficiently comprehensive, and, therefore,
        recommended that immediate steps be taken for a full revision of
        such rules for the consideration of the Supreme Court under § 2073
         of Title 28, U. S. Code.
            The Conference was advised that this matter was, at the present
        time, under consideration by the Supreme Court. In view of this,
        no action was taken by the Conference upon the recommendations
        of the Committee.
                                COMMITTEES
       New Committees.-Pursuant to the direction of the Conference,
     the Chief Justice designated the following committees:
                                 12 

  . Committee to make a study and report together with recommen­
dations on legislation proposed "to prohibit picketing of the court":
Circuit Judge F. Ryan Duffy, Chairman, District Judges Johnson
J. Hayes, Gunnar H. Nordbye, Murray Hulbert, Claude McColloch,
Robert N. Wilkin, and John D. Clifford, Jr.
    Committee to make a study and report, with recommendations,
on legislation proposed to have court proceedings recorded by
sound: Chief Judge Bolitha J. Laws, Chairman; Circuit Judge
Bennett Champ Clark, and District Judges T. Alan Goldsborough,
James W. Morris, and David A. Pine.
    Committee to make a study and report, with recommendations,
on the legislation proposed to create an Administrative Court:
Chief Judge Joseph C. Hutcheson, Jr., Chairman: Circuit Judges
D. Lawrence Groner and Archibald K. Gardner, and District Judges
George C. Sweeney, Michael J. Roche, Arthur F. Lederle, Simon
H. Rifkind, James P. McGranery, and Carl A. Hatch.
   There being no further business to come before the Conference,
the Conference· declared a recess subject to reconvening upon the
call of the Chief Justice.
   For the Judicial Conference of the.United States:
                                             FRED      M. VINSON,
                                                         Chief Justice.
  WASHINGTON, D.    C., ApriZ 20, 1949.




                                          U. S. GOVERNMENT PRlHTJNG O'Plel. CUt
