           REPORT
 OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
    OF THE UNITED STATES

                  HELD AT

          WASHINGTON, D. C.
           7



                      +

    ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTOR OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE
         OFFICE OF THE
     UNITED STATES COURTS
                   1952
               APPENDIX:
    REPORT OF JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
           SPECIAL SESSION
           MARCH 20-21, 1952

                UNITED STATES
          GOVERNMENT PRlNTING OFFICE
               WASHINGTON : 1953
            TITLE 28, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 331

§ 331. Judicial Conference of the United States.
   The Chief Justice of the l;nited States shall summon annually the chief judges
of the judicial circuits to a conference at such time and place in the United States
as he may designate. He shall preside at such conference, which shall be known
as the Judicial Conference of the United States.
   If the chief judge of any circuit is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may
summon any other circuit or district judge from such circuit. Every judge sum-
moned shall aUend and, unless excused by the Chief Justice, shall remain
throughout the conference and advise as to the needs of his circuit and as to
any matters in respect of which the administration of justice in the courts of the
United States may be improved.
   The conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business
in the courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to
or from circuits or districts where necessary, and shall submit suggestioni' to the
various courts, in the interest of uniformity and expedition of business.
   The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice, report to such
 conference on matters rclat.ing to the business of the several courts of the United
 States, with particular reference to cases to which the United States is a party.
    The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings
 of the Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.
                                        (II)
                                       VIII

                                   APPENDIX
     REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE, SPECIAL SESSION, MARCH            1952

                                                                                 Page
Antitrust cases, proposal to prohibit transfer of certain__ _ _                  207
Appeals~allowance of from interlocutory orders, etc______                        203
Appropriations--GeneraL _ __ __ ___                                              224
Bankruptcy Administration: Changes in Salaries or other arrangements__           219
Cases and motions under advisemenL ___.__                                        199
Clerks' Offices, survey of work and position classifications_ ___                217
Codes, Revision of Criminal and Judicial, report of Committee on_ _              223
Commissioners, United States:
    General~
          Method of Compensating_                                                217
          Full-time, allowance for office eXpCl1Be and clerical l1elp____        218
     District of Columbia_ _ _ _                                                 219
Condemnation cases, Just compensation, method of determining, Rule
  71A(h)                                                                         203
Conference, Call of _..                                                          197
Courts:
     Court of Appeals:
          Clerks', Schedule of Fees, Revisf\d_      ________                     202
          Opiniom, Distribution of and Charges for _ _ _                         200
          Pretermitting of Terms, consent to (Eighth and Tenth Judicial
            Circuit) _ _                                                          199
     District Courts:
          District of Columbia:
               Domestic Relations or Family Court, recommendations for
                  creation of separate court of, reaffirmed_ _                   225
               Clerk's Offiee, position reclassifications and additional per-
                 sonnel, authorized_                                             215
          District of South Dakota:
               Divisions of and Places of Holding Court, elimination of
                 certain __ _                                                    205
Court Crier Positions, reclassification not recommended .. __ _                  213
Fees, Clerks, Conrts of Appeals, Revised schedule oL ___ _                       202
Habeas Corpus, Resolution of Kinth Judicial Circuit ____ _                       223
Health Service Programs, participation in __                                     214
Hicks, Chief Judge Xellopholl, resolution 011 retirement of_                     198
Judges, Ret irement of~GeneraL_                                                  212
Judges, Appointment of Substitute Judge in certain instances_                    212
JUdgeships, AdditionaL_                                                          199
.Tury System, Operation of:
     Jury Costs _____ _                                                           212
     Jury Commissions~-composition, duties, e(,c __                               208
     .Tury, Federal Grand~illvestigatory powers, ctc __ _                         208
     Jury, Instructions to, etc., by Trial Judge_                                 209
Legislation~Proposals affecting Judiciary, opport.unity to be heard __ _          224
Probation Service, survey oL __ ____________ _                                    215
Court Reporting System:
     Proposals affecting, to be reviewed by Director __ _                         223
     Changes in arrangements, salaries, etc., authorized __ _                     220
Simons, Chief Judge Charles C., Ilew member ___ _                                 198
                                  APPENDIX
REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF A SPECIAL SESSION
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES
                     SPECIAL SESSION-MARCH 20-21,1952

   Pursuant to previous agreement and understanding of the Con-
ference, and upon call of the Chief Justice, a special session of the
Judicial Conference of the United States was convened on March
20, 1952. The following were present:
   The Chief Justice, presiding.
Circuit :
    District of COlumbia _______________       Chief Judge Harold M. Stephens.
    FirsL_____________________________         Chief Judge Calvert Magruder.
    Second ____________________________        Chief Judge Thomas W. Swan.
    Third_____________________________         Chief Judge John Biggs, Jr.
    Fourth____________________________         Chief Judge John J. Parker.
    Fifth_____________________________         Chief Judge Joseph C. Hutcheson.
    Sixth____________________________          Chief Judge Charles C. Simons.
    Seventh___________________________         Chief Judge J. Earl Major.
    Eighth ____________________________        Chief Judge Archibald K. Gardner.
    Ninth_____________________________         Chief Judge William Denman.
    Tenth _____________________________        Chief Judge Orie L. Phillips.

  Circuit Judges F. Ryan Duffy and Albert B. Maris; and District
Judges, Chief Judge Bolitha J. Laws and Judges Peirson M. Hall
and Harry E. Watkins attended various meetings of the session
and participated in its discussions.
  Henry P. Chandler, Director; Elmore Whitehurst, Assistant
Director; Will Shafroth, Chief, Division of Procedural Studies and
Statistics; Edwin L. Covey, Chief, Bankruptcy Division; R. A.
Chappell, Chief, Probation Division; and Leland L. Tolman, Chief,
Division of Business Administration; and members of their re-
spective staffs, all of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, were in attendance throughout the session?
   Paul L. Kelley, Executive Secretary to the Chief Justice, served
as Secretary of the Session.
   The Chief Justice announced the retirement of Chief Judge
Xenophon Hicks of the Sixth Judicial Circuit, whereupon, on
  1 For conven!pnee, the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
and the Administrative Office of the United States Courts are hereinafter referred to as
the Director. and the AdministratIve Office. respectively.
                                           (197)
                                198
motion made by Chief Judge Ode L. Phillips and duly seconded by
Chief Judge Charles C. Simons, the Conference adopted the fol-
lowing resolution:
                            RESOLUTION

       Through the retirement of Honorable Xenophon Hicks
    as Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for
    the Sixth Circuit on March 1, 1952, the Conference lost one
    of its most useful and beloved members.
       As Judge of the Nineteenth Circuit of Tennessee for ten
    years, United States District Judge for the Eastern and :iVliddle
    Districts of Tennessee for five years, and as Judge of the
    Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit since 1928, Judge Hicks
    has served with great distinction, and through that long period
     of tenure has rendered to his state and nation judicial service
    of high order.
       As a member of the Judicial Conference of the United
    States from January 27, 1938, until his recent retirement he
     brought wisdom and judgment ripened by long experience
    and made many constructive and most useful contributions
     to the work of the Conference. \Ve shall miss his wise counsel
    and the joy of associating and working with him. Now that
    he has gained justly deserved respite from arduous judicial
    duties we express the sincere hope that he may enjoy many
     years of good health, contentment and happiness.
  The Conference thereupon welcomed Chief Judge Charles C.
Simons of the Sixth Judicial Circuit as a member of the Confer-
ence, succeeding Chief Judge Xenophon Hicks, retired.

                    BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

  State of the dockets of the Federal courts-General.-The Con-
ference reviewed the state of the dockets and the work of each of
the district courts and courts of appeals comprising the Federal
judiciary. Conditions relating to the courts within each particu-
lar circuit were discussed by the Chief Judge of that circuit, and
the Conference was informed of matters peculiar to such courts.
Statistical data relating to the current and prospective business
of the. courts were presented by the Director. The attention of
the Conference was also directed to factors which, because of their
character, were impossible to weigh in these data, but which had
                                199
a material and substantial bearing upon the dispatch of the courts'
business. The prospects as to the availability of judges for assign-
ments outside their own districts were considered.
   Cases and 111 otions under advisement.-Mr. Will Shafroth,
Chief, Division of Procedural Studies and Statistics, Administra-
tive Office, presented a statement showing the current situation
throughout the judiciary with respect to cases being held under
advisement.
   The Chief Justice commented upon the marked improvement
which had been achieved in this particular field and expressed his
appreciation for the wholehearted cooperation which had been
evidenced by all members of the Judiciary in the matter. He
urged the eontinuation of this combination of effort which is the
sole means through which the orderly, expeditious, and efficient
dispatch of judicial business can be assured and maintained.
   The attention of the Conference was especially directed to those
cases and motions pending for six months or more. The Chief
Justice suggested that in such cases particular attention be focused
upon the immediate problems involved in the hope that there
may be developed a solution that would afford opportunity for a
prompt disposition of the case.
   Additional Judgeshi]J8.-Mr. Shafroth advised the Conference
that the Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives had
favorably reported to the House a bill providing for additional
judgeships in the Federal judiciary; that the bill, as reported,
provides for all judgeships heretofore recommended by the
Conference.
   The Conference recorded its appreciation of the instant action
of the House Judiciary Committee and, because of the extreme
need for this additional "judgepower," expressed the hope that
favorable action by the House of Representatives would be
promptly forthcoming.
   Courts of Appeals-Terms, Pretermitting of-Eighth Judicial
Circuit.-Chief Judge Gardner presented the following resolution
adopted by the Judicial Council of the Eighth Judicial Circuit:
     HSubject to the consent of the Judicial Conference, all terms
     and sessions of this Court [Court of Appeals for the
     Eighth Judicial Circuit] be pretermitted at all designated
     places in the Circuit except at St. Louis, Missouri. n
                               200
  Upon consideration, the Conference adopted the following
resolution:
       Resolved, That, pursuant to the provisions of Section 48,
     Title 28, United States Code, as amended, Sec. 36, Pub. Law
     248, 82d Congo 1st Sess. app'd. Oct. 31, 1951, the Judicial
     Conference of the United States hereby consents to the
     Court of Appeals for the Eighth Judicial Circuit pretermitting
     for the balance of the fiscal year 1952, and fiscal year
     1953, all terms and sessions of the Court at all designated
     places in the Circuit except at St. Louis, Missouri.
   Courts of Appeals-Terms, Pretermitting of-Tenth Judicial
Circuit-Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.-Chief Judge Orie L.
Phillips presented the request of the Court of Appe'als for the
Tenth Judicial Circuit for the consent of the Judicial Conference
of the United States to its pretermitting the terms of the court
to be held at Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, for the balance of the
calendar year, 1952. He stated that the reasons therefor were
due entirely to the lack of adequate court facilities. The Confer-
ence was advised that the request had the approval of the Judicial
Council of the Circuit.
   The Conference, pursuant to the provisions of Section 48, Title
28, United States Code, as amended, consented to the request of
the Court of Appeals of the Tenth Judicial Circuit as presented.
   Courts of Appeals-Opinions, Distribution of and Charges for.­
Pursuant to the direction of the Advisory Committee of the Con-
ference, the Director submitted at the last regular meeting of the
Conference a report and recommendations relating to the present
practices governing the distribution of and charges for copies of
opinions of the various Courts of Appeals furnished prior to the
issuance of the advance sheets of the Federal Reporter, and the
desirability of establishing a uniform policy with respect thereto.
The question was originally presented to the Conference by Chief
Judge Learned Hand (now retired) at its September Meeting in
1950.
   Data relating to printing costs, receipts from sales, methods of
distribution and other pertinent matters, which had been gathered
and analyzed by Mr. Leland L. Tolman of the Administrative
Office were also submitted. In addition, each member of the Con-
ference gave a brief summarization of the situation existing in his
                                201

respective circuit, and presented views and recommendations con-
cerning the adoption of uniform standards for all circuits.
   It was the sense of the Conference that uniformity in most in-
stances is highly desirable. However, because of the existence
throughout the circuits of a substantial variation in relevant fac-
tors and conditions which must be considered and given material
weight in any determination of the problem, the Conference was of
the opinion that an adequate degree of flexibility must be provided
so that each of the circuits may, in the light of local conditions,
install whatever system in its opinion will best serve the interests
of all concerned. I,t was felt that the adoption of modifications in
certain of the prevailing practices would tend to bring about a sub-
stantial degree of standardization.
   Whereupon, the Conference took the following action:
       1. Direct€d that, effective July 1, 1952, the clerk of each
    Court of Appeals shall assess a charge of at least $1.00 for each
    printed copy of an opinion, such copy to include all separate
    and dissenting opinions in a single case and regardless of
    whether such copy be certified or uncertified.
       2. Directed that, effective July 1, 1952, one copy of each
    opinion be furnished automatically and without charge to
    each party of record in a case.
       3. In order to provide proper and adequate media of dis-
    semination to the general public, authorized each Court of
    Appeals to establish for its circuit a limited "Public Interest
    List," this list to comprise principally public institutions, such
    as government agencies, law schools, news services, libraries,
    public officials and others as the court may determine, to
    which copies of all opinions or those on selected subjects may
    be furnished without charge regularly as they are issued.
       The Conference urged the exercise of extreme care and dili-
    gence in the compilation of such lists in order that the expense
    incident to their maintenance may be kept at the minimum.
       4. Approved of an "Opinion Subscription Arrangement"
    such as that now in effect in the Court of Appeals for the Dis-
    trict of Columbia, under which any party so desiring may
    arrange to receive copies of all opinions of the court on an
    annual subscription basis as may be determined by the court.



    224644--53~14
                                       202

   Thereupon, the Conference ordered that the Schedule of Fees
to be charged for services performed by Clerks of the various Courts
of Appeals, as prescribed by it at its September Meeting, 1945
(Rpt. Jud. Conf. Sept. 1945, pp. 22-23) be, and it is hereby,
amended to read as follows:
            FEES, CLEHKS OF TIlE UNITF.JJ STATES COUllTS OF APPEALS


     The Judicial Conference of the United States, pursuant to the proviSions
   of Title 28, Section 1!l13, United States Code, c. 646, 62 Stat. 954, June 25,
   1948, prescribes the following schedule of fees to be paid for services per-
   formed by clerks of the United States Courts of Appeals on or after July
   1, 1852, except when the services performed are on behalf of the United
   States:
     1. For docketing a case on appeal or review or docketing any other pro-
   ceeding, $25.00.
     2. Preparing the record for the printer and supervising the printing (where
   required by rule or order of court), for each printed page of the record and
   index, $0.25, Provided, That the charge for any Single record and index shall
   not exceed $250.00.
     3. For making a copy (except a photographic reproduction) of any record
   or paper, and comparison thereof, 40 cents per page of 250 words or frac-
   tion thereof; for comparing for certification a copy (except a photographic
   reproduction) of any transcript of record, entry, record or paper when such
   copy is furnished by the person requesting its certification, 10 cents :1'01' each
   page of 250 words or fradion thereof.
      For a pllOtographic reproduction of any record or paper, and the com-
   parison thereof, 25 cents for each page, and for comparing with the original
   thereof any photographic reproduction of any record or paper not made by
   the clerk, 5 cents for each page.
      4. For every search of the records of the court and certifying the result
   of same, $1.00.
      5. For each printed copy of any opinion, such copy to include all separate
   and dissenting opinions in a single case, regardless of whether such copy
   be certified or uncertified, a sum to be fixed by the Court 0:1' at least $1.00,
   Provided, That such charge shall not be assessed for:
          a. Copies of opinions furnished to subscribers under any Opinion
        Subscription Arrangement that may be established pursuant to order of
        the Court, nor
          b. Copies of opinions (one to each party) furnished each party of
        record in a particular case, or
          c. Copies of opinions furnished those appearing upon a "Public In-
        terest List" established by order of the Court in the interest of provid-
        ing proper and adequate media of dissemination to the general public.
      6. Fees for services of the clerks whenever performed in all cases docketed
    prior to January 1, 1946 shall be determined in accordance with the rates
    chargeable in such cases prior to July 1, 1952.
      7. No other fees for services than those above prescribed shall be charged
    or collected by the clerks.
                                                  203
   Appeals-Discretionary allowance of from interlocutory order8,
judgments and decrees in certain instances.-Chief Judge John J.
Parker, committee chairman, presented the report of the Commit-
tee designated to consider the proposal to amend the present pro-
visions of the Judicial Code, Title 28, United States Code, by
incorporating the following new section:
        "In addition to appeals from interlocutory orders, judg-
      ments and decrees permitted as of right under section 1292,
      a court of appeals, on the application of a party, may in its
      discretion authorize an appeal from an interlocutory order,
      judgment or decree if such court determines that such author-
      ization is necessary or desirable to avoid substantial injustice.
      Any such application must be made within 30 days after the
      entry of the order, judgment or decree. No appeal will lie
      from any interlocutory order, judgment or decree in bank-
      ruptcy except as provided in this section or section 1292.
      Failure to take or apply for an appeal under this section or
      section 1292 shall not bar an appeal from any order, judg-
      ment or decree when it becomes finaL"
    The Committee concluded that an amendment to the Code in the
form proposed would unduly encourage fragmentary and frivolous
appeals with the evils and delays incident thereto and disapproved
 the proposal.
    The Conference approved the report of the Committee, and
adopted its conclusions.
    In view of Judge Parker's statement that a further proposal con-
 cerning the matter is to be submitted to the Committee, the Con-
 ference directed the Committee be continued for the purpose of
 considering such proposal and to submit a report and recommenda-
 tions thereon to the Conference.
    Condemnation Cases-Just Compensation, Method of deter­
 mining.-Chief Judge Parker, Chairman of the Committee ap-
 pointed to give study to the change in Rule 71A (h) of the Rules
 of Civil Procedure that will be accomplished by S. 1958, 82d
 Cong./ presented the report of the Committee.
  2   Rpt . .Tud. Conf.• Sept. 1951. pp. 28-29.   Rule 71A (b). FedpraJ RuJes of Clvll Procedure,
adopted by Supreme Court. April 30. 19:\1. bPcame "fl'"ctive Au~mRt 1. 1951:
  "Rule 71A (h). Trial. If the action Involves the f'xerelRe of the power of f'rninent nornaln
under the law of the United States, any trihunal specially constituted by an Act of Con-
gress governing the case for the trial of the issue of just compensation shall be the
                                           204

   The Committee advised that extensive meetings were held and
evidence taken, following which a tentative report encompassing
the views and conclusions of the Committee was transmitted to
all judges and the judicial councils of the various circuits with
request that the Committee be informed of their thoughts in
the matter.
   It was the view of the majority of the Committee that the
rule as promulgated by the Supreme Court embodied a wise and
desirable practice and that, having been adopted by the Court
after careful study and upon recommendation of an able and
experienced committee/ it should not be changed as proposed
by S. 1958, or otherwise, until it has been given a fair trial. From
the expressions received, the position of the majority was favored
in substantial degree.
   Judge Parker advised that the Committee interprets the ex-
isting rule (Rule 71A (h)), as prescribing trial by jury as the
usual and customary procedure to be followed, if demanded, in
fixing the value of property taken in condemnation proceedings,
and as authorizing reference to Commissioners only in cases
wherein the judge, in the exercise of a sound discretion based upon
reasons appearing in the case, finds that the interests of justice
so require.
   The Committee recommended that the Conference approve of
its views and interpretation of the rule.
trihunnl for the determination of that issue: but if there is no such specially constituted
trihunal any party mny have a trial by jury of the Issue of just compensation by filing
a demauil therefor within the time allowt'd for answer or within such further time as the
eourt may fix, unless the court in its discretion orilers that, because of the cbaracter,
location, or quantity of the property to be condemned, or for other reasons in the interest
of jURticp, the Issue of compeusatIon shall be determlneil by a commission of three persons
appointecl by it, If a commission Is appoln ted it shall have the powers of a master
provirj<>d In subdivIsion (c) of rule 53 and proceedings before it shall be governed by the
provlRlons of parajrraphs (1) nnil (2) of subdivl'ion (d) of rule 53. Its action and
report shun bf> (jpterminpd by a majority and Itf< finnings and report shall have the etrect,
and he dMlt with by thp court in accordance with the practice. prescribed in paragrapll
(2) of Rllhrlivieion (e) of rule 53, Trial of all Issues shall otherwise be by the court,"
   S. 19,,8, 82(\ Cong.• provlil('s:
   "1'\otwlthetandinjr the provisions of suhdivislon (h) of rule 71A of the Rules of Civil
Procedure, Rny party to an action in a district court luvolvlng the exercise of the power
of eminent domain unnel' the law of the ['nitro States may bave a trial by jury of the issne
of jU"t compensation, except where a trlhunal has been specially constituted by an Act
of Conjrrpes jroyerning the case for the detf'rmination of that issue, by filing a demand
therpfor within the time allowed by such rule for auswer or within such further time as
the court ma,' fix,"
   • A<1yi"ory Committee on Rules of Civil Procedure: Composed of Hon. Willlam D. Mitchell,
Chairman, George Wharton Pepper. Vlce·Chalrman, and other eminent members of the
legal profession.
                               205
  The Conference approved of the recommendations of the Com-
mittee, including its interpretation of the rule, and directed that
the Director inform the Congress of this action.
  District Courts-South Dakota District-Divisions, Places of
Holding Court.-Chief Judge Gardner of the Eighth Judicial Cir-
cuit presented the recommendation of District Judge A. Lee
Wyman of the judicial district of South Dakota that Section 122
of Title 28, United States Code be amended as follows:
       "Sec. 122 South Dakota
       South Dakota constitutes one judicial district comprising
    two divisions.
       1. The Eastern Division comprises the counties of Aurora,
    Beadle, Bon Homme, Brookings, Brown, Brule, Buffalo,
    Campbell, Charles Mix, Clark, Clay, Codington, Davison, Day,
    Deuel, Douglas, Edmunds, Faulk, Grant, Gregory, Hamlin,
    Hand, Hanson, Hughes, Hutchinson, Hyde, Jerauld, Kings-
    bury, Lake, Lincoln, Marshall, McCook, McPherson, Miner,
    Minnehaha, Moody, Potter, Roberts, Sanborn, Spink, Sully,
    Turner, Union, Walworth, and Yankton.
       Court for the Eastern Division shall be held at Sioux Falls.
       2. The Western Division comprises the counties of Arm-
    strong, Bennett, Butte, Corson, Custer, Dewey, Fall River,
    Haakon, Harding, Jackson, Jones, Lawrence, Lyman, Meade,
    Mellette, Pennington, Perkins, Shannon, Stanley, Todd,
    Tripp, Washabaugh, Washington, and Ziebach.
       Court for the Western Division shall be held at Deadwood."
In support of his recommendations, the following statement from
Judge Wyman was submitted:
        "As you undoubtedly know the District of South Dakota
    is now, and, if my memory serves me right, since 1903 has been
    comprised of four divisions. At the time this statutory divi-
    sion of the district was made it was undoubtedly designed as
    that arrangement which would be most economical and best
    serve the convenience of the litigants of the district, and un-
    der the conditions existing at that time I feel that it was a
    proper and satisfactory arrangement.
       "Due to the change in conditions in general and particu-
    larly because of the change in the method of transportation
    from railroad or horse drawn vehicles to automobiles, there
                            206
is, in my opinion, no longer any justifiable excuse or reason
for holding court at either the northern or central divisions.
Since my appointment to the bench it has been only on rare
occasions where there has been enough work in either of these
two divisions to justify the necessary expense and inconven-
ience to the court of holding a term of court at either place.
I am convinced the litigants on the whole can be served just
as well, if not better, by the terms of court which are regu-
larly held at both Sioux Falls and Deadwood.
   "I am aware of the fact that under the law and the rules
I have the authority to use my discretion and pretermit a
term of court in any of the divisions when in my opinion
conditions are such as to justify it. In effect I have been
doing that both at Pierre and Aberdeen ever since I was ap-
pointed to the bench whenever in my opinion there was rea-
sonable justification for such action, and with the exception
of civil cases of a local character and certain minor criminal
cases where the defendant has been released on bail, most of
the cases in either of those two divisions have been transferred
to either Sioux Falls or Deadwood by consent of the interested
parties, but in civil cases of a local character there is at least
a grave doubt as to the jurisdiction when a case is transferred
to a division other than that where the statutory jurisdiction
is located. In fact, I know of no way that any civil case
can be removed to another division in the absence of the
consent of both parties, except by change of venue because
of convenience of witnesses or the inability of having a fair
trial because of bias or prejudice in the community.
   uln criminal cases where a defendant charged with some
minor offense and who has been released on bail, we find
that he will seldom ask to have the place of trial changed to
Sioux Falls or Deadwood, and if his case is disposed of the
court must go to Pierre or Aberdeen, as the case may be,
prepared to try it, with the result that when the court con-
venes and the defendant is brought in for arraignment, know-
ing that he is confronted with the court and jury ready to
try his case, he will plead gUilty. I have experienced that
situation upon numerous occasions with the result that the
government has been subjected to a great deal of useless ex-
pense. I have drawn a jury at Pierre or Aberdeen on numer-
                                                207
     ous occasions when the only matters to be considered were
     minor criminal cases where the defendants had been released
     on bail and refused to apply for change of place of trial, and
     after two or more adjournments I found that in order to
     dispose of the cases I had to hold a term of court at Pierre
     or Aberdeen and when the cases were called for arraignment
     they were disposed of in a few moments upon pleas of guilty.
        uThis is a situation which, in my opinion, should be cor-
     rected, not only as a matter of convenience to the court, but
     because it would result in a material saving of Federal money.
        uI know of no way to remedy the matter except by the
     aetion of Congress, and I have given the matter considerable
     thought. It has occurred to me that it is a matter of sufficient
     importance to warrant the attention of the Judicial Confer-
     ence, and I am convinced that the Conference, after consid-
     eration of the matter, will take favorable action to remedy the
     situation-and the recommendations of the Conference would
     add materially to the favorable action by the Congress.
        UI am enclosing herewith a tentative draft of a bill amend-
     ing Sec. 122, Title 28, U. S. C., which, after consultation with
     the Clerk, the District Attorney and the United States Mar-
     shal, I am satisfied would be the best method of dividing the
     state into two divisions."
   It was pointed out that the proposal was in accord with the
views of the Conference 4 with respect to the elimination of divi-
sions, places of holding court, etc., through proper consolidations.
   Thereupon, the Conference approved the proposed amendment
to Sec. 122 of Title 28, United States Code in the form presented
by Judge Wyman, and authorized the submission of the bill to the
Congress and appropriate steps to procure its enactment.
   Venue and Jurisdiction-Antitrust cases.-The Director brought
to the attention of the Conference his letter of February 11, 1952,
directed to the Honorable Emanuel Celler, Chairman, Committee
on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives, in response to a
request made of him for an expression of views on the provisions of
H. R. 6157.                                  .
   This bill proposes to amend the present provisions of Sec.-12 of
the Clayton Act (U. S. C. Title 15, § 22) which provide that any
proceeding under the antitrust laws against a corporation may be
 • Rpt. Jud. Con:!'., Sept. 1948. pp. 33, 35.
                                         208
brought either in the judicial district where it is an inhabitant or
in any district where it is found or transacts business, by adding to
the section a provision prohibiting the transfer of any such proceed-
ing to any other district "any provision of law notwithstanding",
except with the consent of the party who instituted the proceeding.
   The amendment would thus prevent the application to antitrust
actIOns against corporations of the provisions of U. S. C., Title 28,
section 1404 (a) which permit the district courts to transfer any
civil action to any other district or division where it might have
been brought, if such a transfer is for the convenience of parties
and witnesses and in the interest of justice.
   The Conference reaffirmed the views it previously expressed 6 in
opposition to any change being made in present provisions of sec-
tion 1404 (a) of Title 28, U. S. C., and specifically disapproved of
the proposed amendment to Sec. 12 of the Clayton Act as provided
for in H. R. 6157. The Conference approved of the Director's let-
ter to Congressman Celler. The Director was instructed to advise
the Congress of this action and to request that should hearings be
held upon H. R. 6157, an opportunity be extended to the Judicial
Conference for the purpose of presenting its views thereon.
                        OPERATION OF THE JURY SYSTEM

   Federal Grand Juries-Investigatory Powers.-District Judge
Harry E. Watkins, Chairman of the Committ€e on the Operation
of the Jury System, presented the report of the Committee.
   The Conference was advised that the committee had given ex-
tensive consideration to the problems arising from its study of the
authority and investigatory powers of Federal grand juries, but was
not in position to submit its report at the present time. He stated
that he expected the committee would be able to complete its work
in ample time to submit a report at the next meeting of the Con-
ference.
   The Director was instructed to inform the Congress of the
situation.
   Jury Commissions-Composition, Powers, Duties and Compen­
sation.-The Committee reported that the Committee on the Judi-
ciary of the House of Representatives had reported favorably to
the House a bill (H. R. 5254) providing for a jury commission for
each of the United States district courts, prescribing its duties, and
 • Rpt. Jud. Cont., Sept. 1951, p. 28.
                                         209
fixing the compensation of the commissioners. The action of the
House Judiciary Committee was taken without hearings being held
on the measure.
   It was pointed out that this was the same bill which the Confer-
ence had strongly disapproved at its September 1951 meeting; 8
also, that the Conference had previously recommended legislation
authorizing the creation of jury commissions, and that a bill con-
forming with the views of the Conference in this respect had been
introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Celler,
Chairman of the Committ€e on the Judiciary. This bill (H. R.
4514) was previously approved by the Conference.6
   The principal difference between the measures, and the major
ground upon which the Conference's opposition to H. R. 5254, is
based, is that H. R. 5254 would eliminate the clerk of the district
court as a member of the jury commission in his district.
   In the opinion of the Conference, this would be an uneconomical
and impractical approach to the organizational problems involved.
It would necessitate the appointment of an additional paid com-
missioner to perform duties that would otherwise be performed by
the clerk and his office staff without added cost to the government.
   The clerk is a valuable and useful part of the machinery for
administering the jury system. He has broad experience in the
work of the court, and is familiar with procedural details, the day-
by-day requirements, and is adequately and properly supplied
with personnel and equipment for the prompt and orderly dis-
patch of the business of the court. He is available on call, and is
a permanent and full-time employee. Through his offices, there
is provided a medium of inestimable value for the smooth and
efficient operation of this important phase of the business of the
courts.
   The Conference again expressed its opposition to H. R. 5254;
and reaffirmed its approval and endorsement of H. R. 4514. The
 Committee on the Operation of the Jury System and the Director
were directed to advise the Congress of this action.
   Juries-Instructions to.-The Committee reported that under
 date of February 26, 1952, the Judiciary Committee of the House
of Representatives had reported favorably, H. R. 287, 82d Cong.,
 1st Session-this action being taken without hearings on the bill
 • Rpt. JUd. Conf., Sept. 1951, p. 21.
                                                210
nor opportunity being extended the Federal Judiciary for the pur-
pose of expressing its views on the proposaL
   Under the provisions of this bill, as introduced, the federal trial
courts would be required to follow the law and practice of the
states where they sit governing the form, manner, and time of
instructing the jury, and the judge would be precluded from
commenting upon the evidence or on the credibility of witnesses
except as permitted by State Law.
   Heretofore, the Conference has emphatically disapproved of
legislative proposals identical in content. In 1937, when the Con-
ference considered the provisions of H. R. 4721, 75th Congress,
which had passed the House of Representatives and was pending
in the Judiciary Committee of the Senate, the Conference adopted
the following minute: 7
          "R. R. 4721-The Conference adopted the following minute
       in relation to this measure:
          "The attention of the Conference has been called to R. R.
       4721 now pending in the Congress.
          "The purpose of this bill is to require that in all cases, civil
       and criminal in the federal courts, as stated, 'the form, manner,
       and time of giving and granting instructions to the jury' shall
       be governed by the 'law and practice in the state courts of
       the state in which such trial may be had'. The result of
       the enactment of this bill will be to change the practice in
       the federal courts respecting the charging of juries in varying
       degrees in a large number of states. In many it will result
       in changing federal trial judges from active instruments of
       justice to mere referees of contests between opposing counsel.
       It will deprive the juries of the benefit of the learning and
       experience of the trial judge in the determination of issues
       of fact. Even the most honest and intelligent juries need
       and welcome the trial judge's aid in performing their often
       difficult duties so that they may arrive at a fair and impartial
       verdict and do full justice between the parties.
          "One of the outstanding excellencies of the federal courts
       in accomplishing justice is the right and duty of the federal
       judge to' charge juries in a manner which will be most helpful
       to them in arriving at just verdicts, a feature of federal prac-
       tice of especial importance in criminal cases in the interests
 7   Rpt. Jud. Conf., Sept. 1937, pp. 10, 11, Ilnd 12.
                                         211

     of both the Government and the defendant. Many decisions
     of the United States Supreme Court, as well as of the Courts
     of Appeals, have carefully laid down such limits as are neces-
     sary to prevent any encroachment upon the province of the
     jury by a judge in his charge, and such limitations are care-
     fully enforced. Thus controlled, the long established and
     well-working present method of charging juries in federal
     courts should, in the opinion of the Conference, be continued.
     In expressing this opinion the Conference has not taken into
     consideration any questions of constitutional validity, and
     expresses no opinion thereon.
        "The bill would substitute a practice which in state juris-
     dictions is gradually being abandoned. A notable instance is
     a recent constitutional amendment in California adopting the
     federal practice respecting charging juries in the courts of that
     State.
        "We respectfully call this bill to the attention of the At-
     torney General and earnestly urge him to oppose its enact-
     ment."
  Again in September 1943, as a result of its extensive study and
survey of the entire Jury System, the Committee on the Operation
of the Jury System, recommended that:
     "the present Federal practice which permits the trial judge
     to instruct the jury orally and to comment upon the evidence
     is an outstanding and satisfactory feature of Federal proce-
     dure and should be preserved."
and this recommendation was approved by the Judicial Con-
ference. s
   The Conference being of the same view which it has so strongly
and emphatically expressed heretofore, reaffirmed its opposition
to change in the present Federal practice for instructing juries as
at common law; or in the form or time for instruction as stated
in Rule 51 of the Rules of Civil Procedure and in Rule 30 of the
Rules of Criminal Procedure, and ordered recorded its specific dis-
approval of H. R. 287, 82d Congress.
   The Committee and the Director were authorized and instructed
to inform the Congress of these views and action of the Conference.
 • Rpt. JUd. Couf., Sept. 1943, p. Hi.
                                 212
  Junes-Cost of.-Mr. Will Shafroth of the Administrative Office
gave a brief resume of the accomplishments achieved because of
the special consideration being given by the district courts in an
effort to increase the efficiency in the operation of the jury system.
The decrease in costs, resulting from the adoption of methods pro-
viding for placing the business of calling jurors on a basis of actual
need, was substantial, and the progress obtained was very satis-
factory.
   A review of the statistical data presented by Mr. Shafroth, and
the report and recommendations of the Committee indicated that,
especially in the metropolitan centers, additional improvements
could be realized by the installation of modern methods of calendar
administration which will avoid the calling of more jurors than are
necessary, or the attendance of more jurors than are actually
needed for trial work.
   The Conference recorded its appreciation of the cooperation
evidenced by the District Judges, and urged that they continue to
give personal attention to the situation in their respective districts.
   Judges-Retirement of.-Circuit Judge F. Ryan Duffy, Chair-
man of the Committee designated to consider the over-all subject
matter covering the retirement of judges, presented the report
of the Committee. The Conference was advised that, pursuant
to its directions, the September 1951, report of the committee had
been circulated throughout the judiciary with request that the
committee be informed of the thoughts and views of the various
judges with respect thereto. Judge Duffy stated that the report
of the committee as presently submitted represents the conclusions
and recommendations reached after consideration of the expres-
sions received.
   The Conference directed that the report of the Committee be
received and, with the exception of the recommendations pertain-
ing to the proposal to amend existing statutory provisions relating
to the appointment of an additional or substitute judge in the cases
where a judge who is permanently disabled from performing his
duties fails to retire, consideration of the report be deferred until
the next regular meeting of the Conference.
   Substitute Judge on failure to retire.-Under existing law, in the
event a district or circuit judge fails to resign or retire upon be-
coming eligible therefor because of age and tenure of service, the
President may, upon his finding that such judge is unable to dis-
                                 213
charge efficiently all the duties of his office by reason of permanent
mental or physical disability and that the appointment of an
additional judge is necessary for the efficient dispatch of business,
appoint an additional judge by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate.
  The Committee recommended that these existing provisions of
the statute be amended so that-
      1. The scope thereof will be broadened so as to include all
    judges appointed to hold office during good behavior, includ~
    ing judges of the special courts, and
      2. To include judges eligible to retire on account of perma-
    nent disability as well as those eligible on account of age and
    length of service, and that
      3. As a condition precedent to the President's findings, a
    certification as to such judge's permanent disability and, be-
    cause of such, his inability to perform the duties of his office, as
    well as to the necessity for the appointment of an additional
    judge, signed by a majority of the members of the Judicial
    Council of his circuit in the case of a circuit or district judge,
    or by the Chief Justice of the United States in the case of the
    chief judge of the Court of Claims, Court of Customs and
    Patent Appeals or Customs Court, or by the chief judge of
    his court in the case of a judge of the Court of Claims, Court
    of Customs and Patent Appeals or Customs Court, shall be
    presented to the President.
  Judge Duffy informed that no objections had been received to
this proposal.
  The Conference approved of the committee's recommendations
and directed that necessary steps be taken to submit an amenda-
tory bill conforming to these recommendations to the Congress.
             SUPPORTING PERSONNEL OF THE COURTS.

  Chief Judge John Biggs, Jr., Chairman of the Committee on
Supporting Personnel of the Courts presented the report and rec-
ommendations of the Committee covering various matters which
had been referred to it for consideration.
  Court Crier Positions-Reclassification.-The Committee re-
quested the Administrative Office to undertake a job analysis
survey of each of these positions in the Federal judiciary. The
                               214

results of this survey were before the committee when it considered
the question as to whether or not any upgrading of existing grade
classifications was justified. The Committee also had compari-
sons drawn with other positions in the Judiciary and the Execu-
tive Branch the duties and responsibilities of which were similar.
It was pointed out that the employees falling within this group
had received all cost-of-living and other pay adjustments which
had been granted other Federal employees by the Congress.
   Based upon these data and other pertinent factors developed
in the committee's examination, the Committee concluded that
the existing classification of these positions was in line with the
grade classification levels of comparable positions throughout the
!Federal government, and that the positions were properly rated
under existing job evaluation standards.
   The Committee recommended that no upgrading of these posi-
tions be effected at this time.
   The Conference concurred in the views and recommendations
of the Committee.
   Health Service Programs-Participation in by the Judiciary.­
The Committee reported that it haP. given extensive study and
consideration to the question raised by the Public Buildings Serv-
ice of the General Services Administration as to whether or not
the judiciary will participate for the personnel of the District
Court for the Middle District of Tennessee in a health service
program for employees of the government which will be housed
in the new Federal building at Nashville. This particular pro-
gram is being organized by the General Services Administration
pursuant to the provisions of § 150, Title 5, United States Code,
and certain Executive Orders.
   The Committee stated that similar programs have already been
installed on an experimental basis. In view of the effect that par-
ticipating in the instant program may have on the over-all situa-
tion, insofar as the Judiciary is concerned, the Committee was of
the opinion that itwould be better to wait until such time as the
results gained from these experimental programs may enable the
advantages or disadvantages of participation to be more definitely
determined.
   The Committee recommended that the Director be authorized
to inform the Public Buildings Service of the General Services
Administration that the Judiciary is not prepared at the present
                                 215
time to join in the program at Nashville, but desires to give the
matter further consideration.
   The Conference adopted the views and recommendations of the
Committee, and directed the Director to act in accord therewith.
   The Probation Service.-The Committee advised that, pursuant
to directions of the Conference, it had undertaken a complete study
of the Probation Service, with respect to the sufficiency of the
numbers of personnel in the various offices and the adequacy and
fairness of existing classifications of officers and employees. A
thorough survey is nearing completion and the Committee will
make effort to submit its report and recommendations at the next
regular meeting of the Conference.
   United States District Court-District of Columbia.-Pursuant
to the directions of the Conference, the committee considered a
plan of reorganization of the personnel structure of the various
offices of this court. This proposal had been submitted for con-
sideration of the Conference at its September 1951 meeting, and
covers reclassifications of existing positions, the creation of addi-
tional positions and other problems incident to a general re-
organization.
   The Committee advised that a general survey of each position in
each of the offices involved had been made and extensive hearings
held. The data thus assembled were subject to intensive study by
the committee in its consideration of the matter.
   The recommendations of the Committee were as follows:
       Reclassi/ications.-With the exception of position classifi-
    cations in the Office of the Register of Wills and Clerk of the
    Probate Court, (one office), the Committee was of the opinion
    that all matters relating to reclassification in the various offices
    should be passed over until consideration could be given to
    an over-all examination of the plan of classification in the
    Clerks' Offices throughout the country.
       With respect to the Register of Wills and Clerk of the Pro-
    bate Court office, the committee was of the opinion that, in
    view of the fact that the existing classification structure of this
    office, with the exception of six positions, was established by a
    survey made in 1927 by the now defunct United States Bureau
    of Efficiency, and, because this office was not under the super-
    vision of the Administrative Office at the time, no adjustments
    were made therein in 1943 when the general upward reclassi-
                                     216

 fication in the offices of the Clerks of the District Courts was
effected, some immediate reclassifications were not only justi-
fiable but necessary in order to bring the structure into line
with relatively comparable positions in other agencies of the
court.
   The following reclassifications for positions in the office of
the Register of Wills and Clerk of the Probate Court in the
District of Columbia were recommended:
                    Position                              Recommended
Register of Wills and Clerk of the                       reClas8ification
  Probate Court ................. ,                   From   GS   14   to   GS   15.
Chief Appraiser. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   From   GS    7   to   GS    9.
Asst. Chief Appraiser .............                   From   GS    5   to   GS    7.
2 Senior Appraisers. . . . . . . . . . . . . ..       From   GS    4   to   GS    5.
1 Junior Appraiser ............... ,                  From   GS    3   to   GS    4.
4 General Clerks ................. ,                  From   GS    2   to   GS    3.
   Additional or New Positions.-The Committee reported
that in its opinion a number of the offices of the court were
seriously understaffed and that the following additional posi-
tions were needed as a minimum for efficient service.
Clerk's Office:
     1 Secretary and Special Assistant to the Chief Deputy
       Clerk.
     3 Deputy Clerks, one to be a Court Room Clerk and serve
       the pre-trial court.
     3 Clerical Assistants.
Domestic Relations Commissioner:
     1 Investigator.
     1 Clerical Assistant.
Assignment Commissioner:
     1 Secretary to the Assignment Commissioner.
Commission on M ental Health:
     1 Clerical Assistant.
Register of Wills and Clerk of the Probate Court:
     3 Accountant-Stenographers. . .. to be classified in GS-3
     2 Senior Appraisers........... to be classified in GS-5
     1 File Clerk ................ " to be classified in GS-3
                                 217
    In those instances where the grade classification is not indi­
     cated, .the grade classification shall be determined by: the
     Director.
   The Conference concurred with the views and recommendations
of the Committee, and adopted the following resolution:
        Resolved, That the Administrative Office of the United
     States Courts shall make a study of the work of the Clerks'
     offices of the United States Courts and the classifications of the
     positions therein; and shall report its recommendations to the
     judges of the respective courts, and to the Committee on Sup-
     porting Personnel of the Courts.
        The Committee shall consider any questions raised in ref-
     erence to the report and shall report thereon, and on the rec-
     ommendations of the Director to the Judicial Conference.
   United States Commissioners-General.-Pursuant to the di­
rection of the Conference, the committee made a "study of the
present system of operation of the offices of the various United
States Commissioners, with particular attention being given to
the manner and method of payment of the Commissioners and
their personnel, the costs of office operations, and the manner in
which these expenses are being paid."
   The Committee advised that during the course of its considera-
tion, the report and recommendations covering an over-all sur-
vey of the Commissioner System submitted to the Conference in
1943 by a committee of which Chief Judge Carroll Hincks was
Chairman was reviewed in the light of present day conditions;
statistical data concerning the volume of business, the nature of
services rendered and earnings of the various offices were analyzed,
and statements from numerous Commissioners were studied. At-
tention was also given to various factors which were brought to
light in the committees' deliberations.
   Upon consideration of all this information, the Committee con-
cluded that the present compensation of the United States Com-
missioners who are required to devote full time to their official
duties, at least in the metropolitan centers such as the District
of Columbia, is inadequate. It was the opinion of the committee
that in those offices where the volume of business was such as to
reasonably require the Commissioner to devote all his time to his



     224644--53----15
                                 218
official duties, the costs of the necessary clerical help and office
expenses of the Commissioner should be borne by the government,
rather than being deducted from the gross compensation of the
Commissioner. It was felt that the adjustment in the personal
compensation of the qualifying Commissioners resulting from this
arrangement would be such as to place them upon adequate com~
pensatory levels. In this connection, the Committee emphasized
that their conclusions did not contemplate the payment of a Com-
missioner's clerical and office expenses simply because he devotes
all his time to a few cases, but covered only those offices where
it could' reasonably be said that the duties incident to a proper
and efficient dispatch of the business of the office required the full
time and attention of the Commissioner.
   The Committee recommended that the Conference do not at
this time recommend any change in the manner and methods of
compensating the United States Commissioners, but that the Con-
ference do recommend to the Congress that provision be made for
the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts to allow and pay the necessary office and clerical expenses
of those Commissioners who, as determined by the Administra-
tive Office under the supervision of the Conference, are required to
devote full time to the duties of the Office of the United States
Commissioner.
   The Conference concurred in the Committee's recommendations
with respect to making no change in the manner and methods of
compensating the Commissioners.
   I t was the sense of the Conference, however, that those Com-
missioners coming within the purview of the committee's defini-
tion of a "full-time" commissioner and whose expenses for neces-
sary clerical assistance and office expense should be borne by
the government should not engage in the private practice of law.
Whereupon, the following resolution was adopted by the
Conference:
       Resolved, That the Judicial Conference of the United States
     does' hereby recommend to the Congress of the United States
     that legislative authority be provided for the Director of the
     Administrative Office of the United States Courts to allow and
     pay the necessary office and clerical expenses of those United
                                        219

    States Commissioners who, as determined by the Director of
    the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, under
    the supervision of the Judicial Conference of the United States,
    are required to devote their full time to the duties of the office
    of the United States Commissioner, and do not engage in the
    private practice of law.
   United States Commissioner-District of Columbia.-Pursuant
to recommendations of the Committee, the Conference took the
following action with respect to certain legislative measures affect-
ing the United States Commissioner in the District of Columbia
which are now pending before the Congress:
        Recorded its disapproval of H. R. 1041, which would pro-
     vide a salary of $12,000 per annum for the United States
     Commissioners in the District of Columbia.
        Recorded its disapproval of H. R. 4141 to the extent that
     it provides for the payment of the District of Columbia United
     States Commissioner's expenses as the" ... district court con-
     siders necessary."
        Recommended that Section 402 of H. R. 4141 be amended
     to read as follows:
        ((Each United States Commissioner for the District may
     employ secretarial and clerical assistance in such manner and
     incur such other expenses as the Director of the Administra-
     tive Office of the United States Courts considers necessary."
   The Conference authorized the Director to advise the Congress
of this action, and authorized the members of the Committee to
appear before the appropriate Congressional Committee to express
the views of the Conference.
                      BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATION

  Circuit Judge F. Ryan Duffy, Chairman of the Subcommittee on
Bankruptcy Administration,9 presented the report of the Com-
mittee.
 • Subcommittee authorized by the Conference-po 20, Rpt. Jud. Con f., Sept. 1951.
                                   220
  The following changes in salaries and other arrangements for
Referees were recommended, effective April 1, 1952:
      Salaries:

                                                              Annual salary
         District      Regular place of   Type of position
                            office                                     Increase
                                                             Present     to

    Alabama (8) _____ Mohile________ Part time _______ $2,500           $3,500
    Indiana (8) _____ ~ Indianapolis ____ Full time_______ 7,500         9,000


       Other Arrangements-Middle District of Pennsylvania.­
    The present designation of Williamsport as a place of holding
    court for the referee at Harrisburg be changed to a place of
    holding court for the referee at Wilkes-Barre..
       The Committee advised that the proposed changes had been
    presented to them with the approval of the Director based
    upon a survey and study of the situation in the light of present
    conditions; also, that the recommendations had been sub-
    mitted to and approved by the Judges and Judicial Councils
     of the district and circuits affected.
  The Conference adopted the recommendations of the subcom-
mittee.
                    THE COURT REPORTING SYSTEM

   The Director presented a report and recommendations covering
r.equests for changes in arrangements and salaries for Court Re-
porters which had been received since the last meeting of the Con-
ference in September 1951.
   Changes in Arrangements-District of M ontana.-In view of
the certification by the Chief Judge of the Ninth Judicial Circuit
as to the need for a law clerk for Judge W. D. Murray of this dis-
trict, and the desire and willingness of Judge Murray to have the
existing position of Court Reporter combined with the position of
Law Clerk, thus eliminating an additional position, the Director
recommended that the Conference authorize the creation of a com-
bination position of Law Clerk-Reporter for Judge Murray. The
Director also recommended, in line with the policy of the Confer-
ence, that the salary of such combination position be fixed at
$5,500.00 per annum, with the proviso that a $5,000.00 per annum
                                           221
rate shall be effective and payable immediately upon the change
in position classification being effectuated; the additional $500.00
per annum to be effective from the date of the change in classifica-
tion, but payable if and when funds are made available by the Con-
gress covering increases authorized by the Conference in
September, 1951.
   The Conference upon consideration of the Director's report, and
an oral statement presented by Chief Judge Denman of the Ninth
Judicial Circuit concerning the situation, authorized the creation
of a combination position of Law Clerk-Reporter for Judge W. D.
Murray, the salary thereof to be fixed in accord with the Director's
recommendations.
   Salaries.-The Director advised that requests for salary adjust-
ments had been received and considered respecting court reporter
positions in the following judicial districts: Puerto Rico, Vermont,
Alabama frEddIe, Indiana Southern, Iowa Northern, and New
Mexico. In each instance, the job analysis heretofore made 10
was reviewed in the light of present day conditions. Based upon
this reexamination, the Administrative Office had concluded that,
with the exception of the position of the reporter for the District
of New Mexico, there had been no change in pertinent job evalua-
 tion factors upon which a salary increase could be justified.
    Upon review of the job analyses and consideration of the Di-
rector's report covering his reexaminations, the Conference con-
 rurred in the conclusions of the Administrative Office.
    District of New 1\1exico.-The Director reported that since
 the last survey of this position, information had been received
 which indicated that certain conditions, materially affecting any
 evaluation of this position, had not been brought to light at the
 time the position was being analyzed. In the light of these addi-
 tional factors and comparison with positions in the area having
 similar duties and responsibilities, the Administrative Office was
 of the opinion that this position should have been originally placed
 in the $4,500 per annum group, instead of its present rating of
 $4,000 per annum.
    In addition to the foregoing, the Director advised that changes
 in conditions affecting the position, which have occurred since the
 general revision of the salary structure in September 1951, would
 completely justify a re-rating at this time.
  ,. A job RIllllysis ot each position in the Court Reporting System was made by the Adminis-
trative Office in July 1951.
                                222
   Chief Judge Orie L. Phillips, a member of the former Committee
of the Conference on the Court Reporter System, stated that he
had reviewed the situation existing at the time the Conference
Committee recommended a general revision of the salary struc-
ture for the System, and, in the light of the additional information
which had been received with respect to conditions not then dis-
closed, it was his considered judgment that the $4,500 per annum
rate now recommended by the Director was entirely consistent
with the salary levels determined upon by the Committee, and
adopted by the Conference, for positions carrying similar duties
and responsibilities.
   The Conference thereupon directed that the salary of the Court
Reporter for the District of New Mexico be increased to $4,500
per annum, effective April 1, 1952, contingent upon funds being
made available therefor by the Congress.
   General.-The Chief Justice called the attention of the Con-
ference to communications which had been received from Richard
J. Martin, Secretary-Treasurer, and Mr. Earl T. Chamberlin,
Chairman, Committee on Legislation and Regulations of the Con-
ference of United States Court Reporters with respect to a bill
(H. R. 6965) pending in the House of Representatives, the pro-
visions of which would remove the existing statutory ceiling of
$6.000.00 per annum on salaries of Court Reporters. Each mem-
ber of the Conference advised that he had been furnished a copy
of each of these letters, as well as a copy of H. R. 6965.
   Reference was made to the fact that the letter from Mr. Martin,
indicated that the Officers and Executive Council of the Re-
porters' Conference had unanimously agreed to seeking the enact-
ment of legislation in the form presented by H. R. 6965, which
was introduced by Honorable Francis E. Walter of Pennsylvania,
and that the communication from Mr. Chamberlain suggested that
in view of the thought that "it would probably be futile to ask
Congress to remove the salary ceiling" the Judicial Conference
may propose an amendment whereby the ceiling theory would be
preserved, but the existing statutory ceiling would be increased
to $9,000 per annum, or whatever ceiling the Conference may
determine.
  A letter from Mr. Gerrit 1. Buist, Chairman of the Conference
of United States Court Reporters requesting the appointment of a
                               223
Committee of the Judicial Conference for the purpose of hearing
representatives of the Reporters' Conference on matters of general
concern to all Federal court reporters was brought to the attention
of the Conference.
   Changes in Arrangements, Salaries and other matters affecting
the Court Reporting System.-The Conference ordered that hence"
forth all matters concerning the Court Reporting System, includ"
ing all requests affecting existing arrangements and present salary
structure, be referred or directed to the Director for his attention
and consideration; and that such of these proposals and requests
which, in the opinion of the Director, warrant consideration by the
Conference shall be submitted at the meeting of the Conference
following their receipt by the Director. The Director's submis-
sion shall be accompanied by a full report covering the proposal,
the basis upon which the request is grounded, and his recommenda" .
tions in the premises.
   Revision of the Criminal and Judicial Codes.-Circuit Judge
Albert B. Maris, Chairman of the Conference Committee on the
Revision of the Criminal and Judicial Codes presented an interim
report of the Committee.
   The Conference was advised that through the enactment of
Public Law 248, 82d Congress, approved October 31, 1951, all of
the amendments to the codes proposed by the Committee and rec-
ommended by the Conference had become law.
   The Conference ordered the report of the committee received
and approved.
   Habeas Corpus-Applications for writ of.-Chief Judge Denman
presented the following resolution of the Judicial Council of the
Ninth Judicial Circuit:
        "The Judicial Council of the Ninth Circuit requests that the
     Judicial Conference of the United States consider and act upon
     the proposal of this council's resolution adopted at a meeting
     held on March 12,1952, as follows:
        Whereas, it appears that Congress has made the provisions
     of the motion procedure of Title 28, § 2255 of the United States
     Code a substitute for the writ of habeas corpus sought by
     federal prisoners; and
        Whereas, such substitute is in the nature of a writ of coram
     nobis and decisions thereunder are res judicata of any question
     presented in the motion; and
                                224
        Whereas, the declared purpose of this legislation is to pre-
     vent the evil of repetitious applications raising the same issues
     by federal prisoners; and
        Whereas, the evil of such repetitious applications filed by
     prisoners in custody under sentences of courts of the states
     is as much a burden on the courts as those filed by federal
     prisoners:
        Now, therefore, be it resolved, that § 2254 of Title 28 of the
     United States Code be amended by the addition thereto of
     the following paragraph:
        A second or successive application by a prisoner in custody
     under sentence of a court of any state for a writ of habeas
     corpus to a federal court, justice or judge, shall not be enter-
     tained if it appear that the applicant presents in the second
     or successive application the same question that he presented
     in the first application and upon which he has been denied
     relief."
   Upon consideration, the Conference disapproved the resolution.
   Appropriations-General.-The Director was authorized, Vv1.th
the approval of the Chief Justice, to seek from the Congress by de-
ficiency or supplemental appropriations the additional funds re-
quired to defray the expenses incident to carrying out the recom-
mendations of the Conference.
   The Conference again reviewed the estimates submitted in a
request for a Supplemental Appropriation for the fiscal year, 1952,
and reiterated its views with respect to the urgent need for the
funds requested therein.
   Legislation Affecting the Judiciary.-The Conference took espe-
cial cognizance of the fact that upon several occasions legislative
matters, in which the Judiciary had a very vital interest, have been
acted upon by Committees of the Congress without an opportunity
having been extended to the Judiciary for the purpose of making
known its views concerning the proposals.
   It was the earnest hope of the Conference that the Committees
of the Congress would, in each instance, call upon the Judiciary,
through the Direct{)r of the Administrative Office, for an expres-
sion of views on proposals which have been presented that may
affect the Judiciary, and especially so when the Committee con-
 templates positive action upon any such measure.
                                           225
   Courts-District of Columbia-Establishment of a separate.
domestic relations court.-The Conference, upon motion, re­
affirmed its recommendations 11 favoring the establishment of a
separate domestic relations court in the District of Columbia.
   The Conference declared a recess, subject to the call of the
Chief Justice.
   For the Judicial Conference of the United States:
                                           FRED M. VINSON,
                                                     Chief Justice.
   Dated Washington, D. C., April 16, 1952.
 11   Rpt. JUd. Conf. :Mell. 1951, p. 7.


                                           Q
