                       REPORT
                         of the
                PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

            JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

                  UNITED STATES 





                    March 10-11, 1977




                     Washington, D.C.
 , '
                           1977
l'     '.
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 



        Rowland F. Kirks 

            Director 

          REPORT
             of the
    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 





        March 10-11, 1977
                 I




         Washington, D.C.
               1977
   THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.s.C. 331

§ 331. JUDICIAL   CoNFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

  The Chief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of
each judicial circuit. the chief judge of the Court of Claims. the chief judge of the
Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, and a district. judge from each judicial circuit
to a conference at such time and place in the United States as he may designate.
He shall preside at such conference which shall be known as the Judicial Conference
of the United States. Special sessions of the conference may be called by the Chief
Justice at such times and places as he may designate.
   The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by
the circuit and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the
circuit held pursuant to section 333 of this title and shall serve as a member of the
conference for three successive years, except that in the year following the enactment
of this amended section the jUdges in the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth circuits
shall choose a district judge to serve for one year, the judges in the second, fifth, and
eighth circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for two years and the judges in
the third. sixth, ninth, and District of Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge
to serve for three years.                       .
  If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the
circuit is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon any other circuit or district
judge from such circuit. 1£ the chief judge of the Court of Claims or the chief judge
of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals is unable to attend, the Chief Justice
may summon an associate judge of such court. Every judge summoned shall attend
and, unless excused by the Chief Justice, shall remain throughout the sessions of
the conference and advise as to the needs of his circuit or court and as to any matters
in respect of which the administration of justice in the courts of the United States
may be improved.
   The conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in
the courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from
circuits or districts where necessary, and shall submit suggestions to the various courts,
in the interest of uniformity and expedition of business.
  The c<lnference shall also carry on a continuous study of the operation and effect
of the general rules of practice and procedure now. or hereafter in use as prescribed
 by the Supreme Court for the other courts of the United States pursuant to law.
 Such changes in and additions to those rnles as the conference may deem desirable
.to promote simplicity in procedure, fairness in administration, the just determination
of litigation, and the elimination of unjustifiable expense and delay shall be recom­
 mended by the conference from time to time to the Supreme Court for its con­
sideration and adoption, modificati<ln or rejection, in accordance with law.
  The Attorney Gene~l shall, upon request of the Chief Justice, report to such
conference on matters relating to the business of the several courts of the United
States, with particular reference to cases to which the United States is a party.
  The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings
of the Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.

                                           (IV)
                        T ABLE OF CONTENTS
    REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE JUDICIAL 

        CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 

                 MARCH 10-11, 1977 

                                                                           P"'I1"
    Call of the Conference .................................... .              I

    Report of the Director of the Administrative Office of the 

         United States <:::Ourts .................................. .          2

    Committee on the Budget ................................. .                4: 

    <:::Ommittee on <:::Ourt Administration ........................ .         5

              Additional Judgeships ............................ .             5

                  District Courts ............................... .            5

                   <:::Ourts of Appeals ............................ .         5

                   Biennial Survey of Judgeship Needs ............ .           6

              Weighted Filing Index ............................ .             6

              Uniform Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement ......... .            7

              Supporting Personnel ............................. .             7

                   Crier Law Clerks ............................. .            7

                   Courtroom Deputies to Senior Judges ........... .           8

"             Legislation ...................................... .             8

                   Western District of Louisiana .................. .          8

                   Diversity Jurisdiction ......................... .          8

                   H.R. 15640, 94th Congress ..................... .           9

                   Jurisdiction of the Customs Court .............. .          9

              Judicial Review .................................. .             9

              Salaries for Ungraded Judicial Personnel ............ .        10 

                   Circuit Executives ............................ .          10 

                   Clerks of <:::Ourt ........................... " .. .      II 

                   United States Magistrates ........,.............. .        11 

    Review <:::Ommittee ....................................... .             II 

    Joint Committee on the Code of Judicial Conduct .. '" ....... .           13 

              Effective Date of Compliance .................•......           14 

              Outside Employment of Law Clerks and Secretaries ... .          14 

              Travel of Judges to Take Depositions ............... .          15 

    Advisory Committee on Judicial Activities ................... .           15 

                                                                                      I:)
    Committee on the Operation of the Jury System ......•........             16 

              Revision of Juror Qualification Form ............... .          16 

              Juror Utilization ................................. .           16 

              Attorney Participation in the Voir Dire ............. .         16 


                                        (V)
                                                  VI 

                                                                                                   P"'lle
Committee on the Administration of the Criminal Law.. .. .. . .                                       17 

         Bail Reform Act . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        17 

         Senate Resolution 578 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            17 

         Amendment to Chapter 313 of Title 18, United States 

           Code ....... :............... ....................                                         18 

Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System....                                          18 

         Salaries and Arrangements for Referees .. " ...... . .. .                                    19 

         Appropriations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       23 

         Chapter XIII Guideline ... ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 23 

         Salary Increases ...................................                                         23 

         Legislation ....................................... '.                                       23 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments .................. : .. " , 24 

Committee on the Administration of the Probation System . .. . . .                                    25 

         Sentencing Institutes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .         ' 25 

         Advisory Corrections Council ........ , .......... :...                                      25 

         Probation System for the Canal Zone .. ;.............                                        25 

Committee on the Administration of the Federal Magistrates 

    System ...................................... '. . .. . . . . . .                                 26 

         Jurisdiction Checklist and/Model Rules ... , ..........                                      26 

         Amendment of Conflict-of-Interest Rule 7 ........ :.;.                                       27 

         Changes in Magistrate Positions ................... ~ .                                      28 

Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act. ... ........                                         31 

         Appointments and Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    32 

         Grant Requests-Community Defender Organizations.. .                                           32 

         Budget Requests-Federal Public Defender Offices. . . . .                                     33 

         Additional Funding for Defender Office Operations. . ..                                       34 

         Legislation . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34 

         Guidelines ....................... '. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         35 

Committee on the Rules of Practice and Procedure. . .. . ..... ..                                      35 

         Appellate Review of Sentences .............. :.......                                         35 

         Other Criminal Rules·. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              36 

Bicentennial Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         37 

         Movies Project ....................................                                           37 

         Biographical Directory ............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          37 

         Popular Book ................................ '. . . . .                                      38 

         Circuit Histories ....................~. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        . 38 

Committee on Pacific Territories .......... ;. ......... . .. .....                                    38 

Committee to Consider Standards for Admission to Practice in 

    the Federal Courts ..... ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . .             39

Pretermission of Terms of the Courts of Appeals .... '...'. . .. . . .                                 39 

Next Conference Session ...................................                                            40 

Resolutions ...............................................                                            40 

Elections .............................................:.....                                          42 

Release of Conference Action ...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  42 

 Report of the Proceedings of the Judicial 

     Conference of the United States
                         March 10-11, 1977

  The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on
March 10, 1977, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of
the United States issued under 28 U.S.G. 331. The following
members of the Conference were present: .
District of Columbia Circuit:
   . 	Chief Judge David L. Bazelon             .

      Chief Judge William B. Jones, District of Columbia 

First Circuit:
      Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin . 

    . Chief Judge Andrew A. Caffery, District of Massachusetts 

Second Circuit:
    Chief Judge Irving R. Kaufman 

    Chief Judge Jacob Mishler, Eastern District of New York 

Third Circuit:
    Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz 

    Chief Judge LawTence A. Whipple, District of New Jersey 

Fourth Circuit:
     Chief Judge Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr. 

 . , Judge Charles E. Simons, Jr., District of South Carolina 

Fifth Circuit:
     Chief Judge John R. Brown
     Judge Alexander A. Lawrence, Southern District of Georgia
Sixth Circuit:.
     Chief Judge Harry Phillips
    Chief Judge Damon]. Keith, Eastern District of Michigan
Seventh CircUit:
    Chief Judge Thomas E. Fairchild
    Chief Judge James B. Parsons, Northern District of Dlinois
Eighth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Floyd R. Gibson    ... 

    Chief Judge James H. Meredith, Eastern District of Missouri 


                                    (I)
                                               2

Ninth Circuit:
    Chief Judge James R. Browning· 

    Chief Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Eastern District of California 

Tenth Circuit:
    Chief Judge David T. Lewis u
    Chief Judge Wesley E. Brown, District of Kansas
Court of Claims:
   Judge Oscar H. Davis
Court of Customs and Patent Appeals:
   Chief Judge Howard T. Markey

   Circuit Judges Robert A. Ainsworth, Jr., and Edward A.
Tamm; Senior District Judges Dudley B. BonsaI, Arthur J.
Stanley, Jr., Roszel C. Thomsen, Carl A. Weinman, Albert
C. Wollenberg and Alfonso J. Zirpoli; and District Judges
Edward J. Devitt, George L. Hart, Jr., William B. Jones,
Charles M. Metzner and Edward Weinfeld attended all or some
of the sessions of the Conference.
   The Honorable Walter E. Hoffman, Director of the Fed­
eral Judicial Center, reported orally on the activities of the
Center since the last session of the Conference.
   A written report of the activities of the Panel on Multi­
district Litigation was submitted on behalf of the Panel.
   The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, Rowland F. Kirks, the Deputy Director, William
E. Foley, and Assistant Director Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., attended
all sessions of the Conference, as did the Administrative Assist­
ant to the Chief Justice, Mark W. Cannon.

             REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE 

              ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

                 UNITED STATES COURTS 

   The Director of the Administrative Office, Mr. Rowland F.
Kirks, reported to the Conference on the state of the business
of the federal courts for the six-month period ending December
31, 1976:        .
  " On designation of the Chief Justice, Judge Richard H. Chambers attended in place of Chief Judge
    James R. Browning who was unavoidably absent.
 •• On designation of the Chief Justice, Judge Oliver Seth attended in place of Chief Judge navid T.
    Lewis who wu ill.
                                 3


     The incoming workload of the courts of appeals continues
 to increase unabated, Mr. Kirks stated. During the period from
 July I through December 31, 1976, filings rose by more than
 4%. While these courts also managed to increase their termi­
 nations by 6%, they were not able to prevent a continuing rise
 in the pending backlog. The 15,391 cases pending on Decem­
 ber 31, 1976, was 14% higher than the backlog of only six
 months earlier.
     Civil filings in the district courts fell 4.1 % compared to the
 same six-month period from last year while terminations in­
 creased by approximately 6%. This combination of decreased
 filings and increased terminations, however, did not result in
 a reduction in the pending backlog. At the end of December
 1976, Mr. Kirks said that there was a record high 148,369 civil
cases pending in the district courts, almost 11 % more than at
the close of calendar year 1975.
    There were several areas which contributed to the overall
declines in civil filings during the six-month period. Marine
contract cases dropped 24%; land condemnation cases were
down 43%; and Interstate Commerce Commission cases,
mostly those involving freight damage, experienced a decline
of 46%. Social Security case filings overall continued to climb
and were 9.3% higher than the six-month period from last
year; however, the dramatic rise in "black lung" litigation
 (which is included in the Social Security category) noted in
previous years has reversed, as 32% fewer cases were filed dur­
ing the half-year period.
    Criminal case filings continued to drop during the half­
year period as 3'70 fewer cases were filed. Case terminations
were also lower than last year by more than 10%. The decline
in both filings and terminations resulted in a December 31
pending figure of 20,483, 5% lower than a year ago.
    Apart from the fact that the Administrative office is no
longer counting superseding criminal indictments as new cases
and is now counting minor offenses as part of the criminal case­
load, Mr. Kirks said there is reason to believe that the criminal
case filings will increase again. There were several areas which
experienced significant increases during the six-month period.
For example, burglary cases increased by 47% over the same
six-month period· from last year. Postal larceny and stolen
property increased 15% and 64% respectively. Income tax
                                4


prosecutions rose by 55% and other fraud prosecutions rose
by 23%.
   Bankruptcy cases filed continue to spiral downward. Com­
pared to the same six-month period a year ago, the decrease
was more than 15%. The pending caseload continues to be
staggering, but it has dropped more than 16,000 compared to a
year ago.
   The 41 % increase in additional duties in civil proceedings
on the part of U. S. magistrates was accompanied by a 10%
increase in both trial jurisdiction cases and in additional duties
connected with criminal cases. Altogether the U. S. magistrates
handled 6% more matters than the same period from a year
ago.
   The Federal Probation Service has experienced a decline
in persons received for supervision due almost totally, to the
downturn in criminal prosecutions. The 64,432 persons under
supervision represented a 39 person caseload per officer for the
1,669 authorized probation officer positions.
   Juror utilizati9n improved with the percentage of jurors
selected or serving up to 60.4 percent, compared to 59.6 percent
last year. Mr. Kirks pointed out that the percentage of jurolSs
not selected,. serving or challenged which dropped to 23.9
percent, is most gratifying.

            COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
    Judge Carl A. Weinman, Chairman of the Budget Com­
mittee, reported to the Conference on the recently 'concluded
hearings before the Subcommittee on Appropriations for the
Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, the Judiciary,
and Related Agencies, of the House of Representatives.' He
informed the Conference of some concessions that were made
with respect to the staffing requirements of the district courts
in view of a reduction in civil, criminal, and bankruptcy,'Case
filings and a reduction in the supervision case load of probation
officers.
   Judge Weinman stated that a net increase of 319 positions
had been requested for the courts of appeals and district courts
for fiscal year 1978 which is a modest increase compared to
prior years. He stated that the revised estimate for the courts
of appeals and district courts for 1978 was $300,813,000, repre­
                                5

senting an increase of $22,361,000, or 8 percent over the
adjusted appropriations for 1977. He explained that two-thirds
of the increase, or $14,830,000 represented pay costs and other
statutory or uncontrollable items of expense.
   Judge Weinman distributed to the members of the Confer­
ence copies of a listing of statutes enacted by Congress since
1969 which have resulted in an increased workload for the
courts and a corresponding increase in budgetary req uire­
ments.

   COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
  The report of the Committee on Court Administration was
presented by the Chairman, Judge Robert A. Ainsworth, Jr:
                    ADDrrIONAL JUDGESHIPS
District Courts
   At the September 1976 session, the Conference approved
 (Conf. Rept., p. 37) a recommendation. to the Congress for
106: additional district judgeships. This recommendation
emanated from the quadrennial· surVey of the needs of the
district courts made by the Subcommittee on Judicial Statistics
in collaboration with the Administrative Office. At the Sep­
tember session, Chief J udgeBrowning requested that the
committee be permitted to inquire further into the needs of
the Northern District of California. As a result of a further
survey of the Northern District of California, ~e. Conference
approved the recommendation of the committee for an addi­
tional judgeship for this district, bringing to a total of 107 the
number of district judgeships recommended at the. September
and March sessions.
Courts of Appeals
   As a result of the last quadrennial survey of the judgeship
needs of the courts of appeals in 1974, the Conference approved
a request to the Congress for 13 ::t,dditiona1 circuit judgeships.
At the September 1976 session, the Conference approved as
an emergency measure the establishment of three additional
circuit judgeships for the District of Columbia Circuit. The
Congress has taken no action on either of these recommenda­
tions. The committee noting that nine years have passed since
additional circuit judgeships have been increased and noting
                                                   6


the vast growth in filings in the two years since the last quad­
rennial survey requested the Subcommittee on Judicial Statis­
tics and the Administrative Office to make an in-depth analysis
of the workloads of the circuit courts of appeals. As a result of
this survey and analysis the committee recommended and the
Conference approved nine additional judgeships: two in the
Second Circuit, one in the Fourth Circuit, one in the Sixth
Circuit and five in the Ninth Circuit, thus bringing the total
of Conference recommendations for new circuit judgeships to
twenty-five, as follows:
    First Circui t ........................................                                         1
    Second Circuit ......................................                                          2
    Third Circuit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
    Fourth Circuit ......................................                                          .3
    Fifth Circuit ................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  0
    Sixth Circuit ...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
    Seventh Circuit ............................ ~ . . . . . . . . .                                1
    Eighth Circui t ......................................                                          1
    Ninth Circuit ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         10
    Tenth Circuit. . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
    District of Columbia Circuit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                .3

                                                                                                  25
  Because of the urgent need of presenting these additional
recommendations to the Congress early in its session, the
recommendations for circuit judgeships and for an additional
district judgeship in the Northern District of California were
approved by the Executive Committee for the Conference on
February 8,1977.
Biennial Survey of Judgeship Needs
   Upon recommendation of the Subcommittee on Judicial
Statistics made necessary if the courts are to cope with their
civil dockets as well as comply with the requirements of the
Speedy Trial Act, the Conference approved a recommendation
that the committee be authorized to make biennial surveys of
the needs of the district courts and of the courts of appeals,
commencing in 1978.
                               WEIGHTED FILING INDEX

  The last revision of the weighted. filing index for the district
courts used by the Administrative Office and by the Subcom­
                                7


mittee on Judicial Statistics was made in 1970. Since that time
many changes have occurred in the judicial system and in the
nature of the workload of the district courts. As a result, the
committee believes that the present weighted filing index no
longer serves as a reasonably accurate measure of the work of
a district court. The last revision was prepared under the super­
vision of the Federal Judicial Center and the Conference ap­
proved a recommendation that the Center be requested to
study and revise the index, or if need be, to fa.shion an entirely
new system for assessing the workload of each district court. In
carrying out this urgent study, the Center was requested to
consult with the Subcommittee on Judicial Statistics of the
Judicial Conference.

       UNIFORM RULES OF DISCIPLINARY ENFORCEMENT

   At the September 1976 session the Conference was advised
 (Conf. Rept., p. 35) that proposed guidelines for Uniform
Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement were again being circulated
to all federal judges for comment prior to making a recommen­
dation to the Judicial Conference. This has now been accom­
plished. As a result of a motion from the floor of the Confer­
ence the guidelines were also sent to the presidents of the state
bar associations. The Chairman of the American Bar Associa­
tion Standing Committee on Professional Discipline, Mr. John
McNulty, in December 1976, advised the Subcommittee on
Judicial Improvements that there is a substantial need for
additional time to brief the state bar presidents as to the back­
ground and need for national rules. At the request of Mr. Mc­
Nulty the subcommittee agreed, with the consent of the com­
mittee, to defer further presentation to the Judicial Confer­
ence of this subject matter until there has been an opportunity
to present it fully to the mid-year meeting of the House of·
Delegates of the American Bar Association and to the annual
meeting of the Association in August.

                    SUPPORTING PERSONNEL

Crier Law Clerks
  At the present time a law clerk for a district judge normally
receives the salary of JSP 11 and a crier law clerk the salary of
JSP 9. It has been ascertained that within the current aggre­
                                  8


gate salary limitations of a district judge, it would be possible
to appoint both crier law clerks and law clerks at JSP 11, thus
equalizing the salary throughout their terms of service. There
is in most instances little or any differential in the assigning of
duties and responsibilities of these two individuals and as a
result district judges frequently change the individuals from
one position to the other at mid-point in their terms of service,
causing some 400 personnel actions to be effected and distrib­
uted annually by the Administrative Office. The Conference
agreed that so long as the aggregate salary limitations permit
both law clerks to be assigned to Grade JSP 11 the qualification
standards and classification standards for the position of crier
law clerk are approved for Grades JSP 10 and JSP 11.

            COURTROOM DEPUTIES TO SENIOR JUDGES

  The Conference approved the following resolution concern­
ing the furnishing of courtroom deputies to senior judges:
      Any time an active district judge takes senior status and
    expects to continue to render substantial service to his court
    and a request is made on his behalf by the court that he will
    continue to need courtroom deputy service, the necessary per­
    sonnel shall be provided to the clerk of court by the Adminis­
    trative Office in an appropriate manner. Regular review of the
    continued need for such service is expected to be made.
  The Conference approved a further resolution requesting a
full study by the committee of all questions relating to senior
judges and services rendered to senior judges.
                            LEGISLATION

Western District of Louisiana
  The Conference approved H.R. 1916, a bill to amend 28
u.s.c. 98 (c) to eliminate the statutory designations of divisions
in the Western District of Louisiana. This proposal had previ­
ously been approved by the judges of the district and by the
Judicial Council of the Fifth Circuit.
Diversity Jurisdiction
  The Conference approved H.R. 761, 95th Congress, a bill
which would abolish diversity of citizenship as a basis of juris­
diction in the United States courts, except as it might apply to
the courts in the Pacific Trust Territories. The Conference
                                9


further agreed that should the Congress fail to respond to this
request, the Conference reaffirmed its approval of a bill to pro­
hibit a plaintiff from filing a diversity case in the state of his
residence, as well as reaffirmed its support of S. 3153, 94th
Congress, approved at the September 1976 session (Conf.
Rept., p. 40), which would increase the jurisdictional amount
in diversity cases to $25,000. In view of the trend toward the
elimination of jurisdictional amount requirements in federal
cases, the Conference in regard to S. 3153, 94th Congress,
amended its previous action to reaffirm the proposal to in­
crease the jurisdictional amount in diversity cases to $25,000
but recommended that the Congress eliminate entirely the
general amount in controversy requirement for federal ques­
tion cases in 28 U.S.C. l33l.
H.R. 156407 94th Congress
   The Conference approved this bill which would authorize
suits against the United States upon a contract of guarantee
made by the United States under Section 2 (b) of the Emer­
gency Livestock Credit Act to be filed in United States district
courts but the Conference urged that the bill be redrafted as an
amendment to the Emergency Livestock Credit Act rather than
as an amendment to Title 28, United States Code, Section
1346, the general jurisdiction provision with respect to suits
against the United States.
Jurisdiction of the Customs Court
   The Conference approved S. 3871, 94th Congress, which
would· amend the jurisdiction of the United States Customs
Court to provide that it shall possess all powers in law and
equity of a district court. The Conference further took no
position with respect to the proviso relating to the appointment
of judges from the same political party. The Conference further
urged that the bill be redrafted to make the provision for
equitable powers a part of Section 1581 of Title 28 rather than
Section 251.
                       JUDICIAL REVIEW

  The Conference agreed to a proposal of the Administrative
Conference of the United States to harmonize the provision for
judicial review under the Clean Air Act and the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act, to grant exclusive jurisdiction to the
                               10 


United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit to review nationwide environmental standards admin­
istratively determined under both acts, to authorize the trans­
fer of suits by the courts of appeals and the district courts and
to require suits involving state implementation plans to be
brought in the appropriate circuit in which the state is located.

         SALARIES FOR UNGRADED JUDICIAL PERSONNEL

   Subsequent to the meeting of the Committee on Court Ad­
ministration and the submission of its report, recommendations
contained in the President's budget message of January 17,
1977 which, among other things, increased the salaries of fed-'
eral judges, became effective February 21, 1977. The Confer­
ence at its October 1971 session (Conf. Rept., p. 65) adopted a
report of an ad hoc Committee on Salaries, chaired by Judge
William H. Hastie, and at the April 1976 session (Conf. Rept.,
p.4) the Conference reaffirmed but temporarily suspended the
report of the Committee on Salaries to authorize an increase in
salaries of clerks of court. As a result of a reexamination of
these two actions of the Conference in the light of the changes
in the salaries of federal judges which have now become effec­
tive, the committee recommended and the Conference ap­
proved the following:
Circuit Executives
  By statute, the salary of circuit executives shall not exceed
Level V of the Executive Service which has now become
$47,500. The Conference approved that this sum be fixed as
the maximum salary which a circuit executive is permitted,
with the actual amount of compensation to be determined
within that limit by the judicial councils of the respective cir­
cuits. Each salary increase will become effective at the begin­
ning of the first pay period following receipt by the Director
of the Administrative Office of the official recommendation of
the judici~t1 council of the circuit.
   On motion of Chief Judge Kaufman it was agreed that
the Committee on Court Administration should study the
feasibility of legislation which would permit the salary of cir­
cuit executives to be raised to a level $500 higher than the top
salaries of referees in bankruptcy and full-time magistrates.
   On motion of Chief Judge Brown it was agreed that the
                               11 


Committee on Court Administration should also study the
feasibility and desirability of legislation to provide court ex­
ecutives for the chief judges of the larger multi-judge district
courts.
Clerks of Court
   The Conference approved a recommendation that the salary
structure for clerks of court shall be the same as was approved
at the October 1971 session of the Conference so that clerks of
the' larger courts and of the appellate courts and of the Customs
Court would receive up to 75 percent of the salary of a district
judge, the clerks· of the medium courts would receive 70 per­
cent of the salary of a district judge and the clerks of the
smaller courts, including the territorial courts, would re­
ceive up to 60 percent of the salary of a district judge. Since
all clerks' salary changes are subject to the approval of the
judges of the circuit or district involved, the Conference
agreed that such changes would become effective at the begin­
ning of the first pay period following the receipt by the Director
of the Administrative Office of the official recommendation
of the court involved.
United States Magistrates
   The Conference requested that the Magistrates Division and
the Chairman of the Magistrates Committee reexamine the
salary structure of full-time magistrates and make a recom­
mendation within thirty days, through the Chairman of the
Committee on Court Administration, to the Conference regard­
ing the salary structure for full-time magistrates commensurate
with the duties, responsibilities and qualifications of such
magistrates. The Conference, upon receipt of the recommenda­
tions from the Chairman of the Committee on Court Adminis­
tration, will respond by mail vote.

                   REVIEW COMMITTEE
  The report of the Review Committee was presented by the
Chairman, 1udge Edward A. Tamm.
  In his report 1udge Tamm reviewed brieRy for the benefit
of the Conference the examination conducted of reports of
extra-judicial income by judges, magistrates and bankruptcy
judges for the six-month period ending December 31, 1976.
                                12 


Judge Tamm stated that his committee has again considered
whether other non-adjudicatory judicial employees should be
required to file public reports of outside income. Upon examin­
ation of this question and the recommendation of the com­
mittee, the Conference approved a recommendation that execu­
tives of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
executives of the Federal Judicial Center, including committee
chairmen and division chiefs of both groups, all court execu­
tives, all clerks of court, financial clerks of court, chief deputy
clerks and deputy clerks in charge of divisional offices, chief
probation officers and other supervising probation officers, and
other employees in or above Grade 15 or JSP 15 be required
to file a semiannual report of non-governmental income.
   Judge Tamm reported further that the committee has deter­
mined that there are wide variations in the interpretations
being placed upon the meaning of "close familial relationship"
as expressed in Canon SD. To insure that certifications author­
izing the performance of fiduciary responsibilities in non­
family estates and trusts are predicated upon fixed and defined
principles the committee recommended and the Conference
approved the recommendation that the JudiCial Conference
establish and distribute to all judicial officers criteria for guid­
anc~ of judicial councils in approving services in non-family
estates. It was agreed that these criteria and guidelines be
studied by the Advisory Committee on Judicial Activities
which will report further to the Conference.
   Judge Tamm advised that Congress undoubtedly will enact
legislation to inaugurate a reporting system for all high echelon
government employees in all three branches of the government.
He said that the Review Committee feels that consideration
should be given to some type of review within the judiciary of
reports filed concerning its personnel regardless of whether
such are also to be reviewed by executive or legislative per­
sonnel. To insure that the accumulated experience of the Re­
view Committee may be offered to the Judicial Conference,
the committee contemplates holding a special meeting in the
event legislation is enacted prior to the July meeting of the
Review Committee to prepare recommendations. He noted
that the legislation before the House of Representatives would
place a 15 percent limitation on all outside earned income and
recommend prompt establishment of an ad hoc committee to
                                                    13 


decide whether such a 15 percent limitation should be applied
to the judiciary on all earned income. The Conference agreed
and it was further suggested that the membership of the ad hoc
committee should include someone from the Joint Committee
on the Code of Judicial Conduct.
   Pursuant to the Conference resolution at its March 1971
session (Conf. Rept., p. 24). as subsequently amended. Judge
Tamm advised the Conference that fourteen district judges
have not filed reports of extra-judicial income for the period
July 1 through December 31, 1976, as follows:

  Listing. by Circuit. of Judicial Officers Who Have Not. as of March
10. 1977. Filed Reports of Extra-Judicial Income for the Reporting
Period Ending December 31, 1976:

Second Circuit:                                          "'Peirson M. Hall
U   Edward L. Palmieri                                     V.S. District Judge
    V.S. District Judge                                  "Harry Pregerson
"Sylvester J. Ryan                                         V.S. District Judge
  V.S. District Judge
                                                         "Manuel L. Real
..Edward Weinfeld                                         V.S. District Judge
  V.S. District Judge 

• "'Inzer B. Wyatt                                       "Stanley A. Weigel 

   V.S. District Judge                                     V.S. District Judge

Sixth Circuit:                                           Te'nth Circuit:
"Frank J. Battisti                                         Stephen S. Chandler. Jr.
  V.S. District Judge                                      V.S. District Judge
Ninth Circuit:                                           "William W. Ritter
"Warren J. Ferguson                                        V.S. District Judge
 V.S. District Judge

** Judges declining to file as a matter of conscience.


            JOINT COMMITTEE ON THE CODE OF 

                   JUDICIAL CONDUCT 

  The report of the Joint Committee, which is chaired by
Judges Edward A. Tamm and William B. Jones, was presented
by Judge Tamm.
                                   14

                EFFECTIVE DATE OF COMPLIANCE

   The "effective date of compliance" provision of the Code of
Judicial Conduct permits a person "who holds judicial office
on the date this Code becomes effective" to continue to act
without compensation as an executor, administrator, trustee or
other fiduciary for the estate or person of one who is not a
member of his family if termination of such relationship
would unnecessarily jeopardize any substantial interest of the
estate or person. Judge Tamm stated that it has been suggested
to the Joint Committee that the Code be amended to extend
this exception to cover situations in which a newly appointed
judge is at the time of appointment serving as a fiduciary for a
person or estate, not family related, and the termination of his
service may work a hardship on the person or estate. Accord­
ingly, the Conference amended the "Effective Date of Compli­
ance" provision of the Code to read as follows:
       A person to whom this Code becomes applicable should ar­
    range his affairs as soon as reasonably possible to comply with it
    and should do so in any event within the period of one year.
    If, however, the demands on his time and the possibility of con­
    flicts of interest are not substantial, a p@fseR wae aelQs jHGiEial
   .offi,e Oil the date this COQ@ ge,omes elIe,ti u 8 such a person may
    continue to act, without compensation, as an executor, adminis­
    trator, trustee, or other fiduciary for the estate or person of one
    who is not a member of his family, if terminating such relation­
    ship would unnecessarily jeopardize any substantial interest of
    the estate or person and the judicial council of the circuit
    approves. (New wording underscored, old wording deleted.)

  OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT OF LAW CLERKS AND SECRETARIES

   In October 1940 the Judicial Conference adopted a resolu­
tion that no secretary or law clerk should do any work or re­
ceive any compensation for work outside of the salary paid to
him in the capacity of secretary or law clerk, or occupy or be
appointed to any office in any federal or state court. The Con­
ference was advised that this 1940 resolution may be too restric­
tive and the Coqference approved a recommendation of the
                                                                          .'':)
committee that the resolution be restudied by the Committee on
Court Administration, including the possible promulgation of
guidelines governing outside employment by law clerks and
secretaries.
                               15

           TRAVEL OF JUDGES TO TAKE DEPOSITIONS

   The Conference was advised that on two occasions the Ad­
visory Committee has received inquiries concerning the pro­
priety of district judges traveling abroad to take depositions at
the expense of the parties. This is a problem not specifically
dealt with in the Code of Judicial Conduct and since it appears
to involve policy rather than ethical questions it was agreed
that the matter should be studied by the Committee on Court
Administration.


ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL ACTIVITIES
   The report of the Advisory Committee on Judicial Activities
was presented by the Chairman, Judge William B. Jones.
   Judge Jones reported that at its recent meeting the Advi­
sory Committee unanimously expressed its appreciation to
Judge Elbert P. Tuttle, the committee's first chairman, for the
outstanding service he has rendered to the work of the com­
mittee and to the federal judiciary. Judge Tuttle organized
the committee in 1969, gave it direction and purpose and for
more than seven years shouldered most of the burden of the
committee's work. On motion of Judge Jones, the Conference
joined in this tribute to Judge Tuttle.
   Judge Jones stated that the committee continues to adhere
to its practice of requiring a submission in writing on all ques­
tions involving an interpretation of the Code of Judicial Con­
duct. The committee declines to render informal oral opinions
on any matters not previously decided. As of the reporting
date, the committee had considered and acted upon 144 formal
docketed inquiries, not including approximately 35 matters
prior to the installation of the docketing system.
   The Conference approved the proposal of the Advisory
Committee to bring to the attention of the American Bar
Association the fact that the Code contains no guidelin-es or
rules that deal directly with some of the problems connected
with writings by members of the judiciary that are permitted
by Canons 4A and 5A of the Code. The submission to the
A.B.A. will be with the request that the committee review the
problems presented by writings of judges, as well as any other
possible amendments to the Code.
                              16

    COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION OF THE 

               JURY SYSTEM 

  The report of the Committee on the Operation of the Jury
System was presented by its Chairman, Judge Arthur J.
Stanley, Jr.

          REVISION OF JUROR QUALIFICATION FORM

   The Conference approved a recommendation of the com­
mittee endorsing a proposed amendment to the excuse section
of the juror qualification form. Currently an ambiguity results
from the statutory distinction between excuses and exemptions
for prospective jurors. Members of excused groups are per­
mitted to serve if they so desire, whereas exempt persons do
not have the option of serving. The proposed amendment to
the juror qualification form would clarify for the prospective
juror that any available excuses from service are optional and
are not required to be claimed by those eligible therefor. The
Conference approved the two changes in the wording of the
juror qualification form recommended by the committee for
the purpose of this clarification.

                     JUROR UTILIZATION

   On recommendation of the committee, the Conference re­
affirmed its prior resolution that continued training in juror
administration and utilization matters should be provided in
the interest of improved efficiency in this area and that judges
and other court personnel should be encouraged to partici­
pate in such training.

        ATTORNEY PARTICIPATION IN THE VOIR DIRE

   Judge Stanley advised that the American Bar Association's
House of Delegates at its meeting in August, 1976, adopted a
resolution urging the amendment of the federal rules to per­
mit the parties or their attorneys to conduct the voir dire ex­
amination of prospective jurors. The Conference reaffirmed
unanimously its prior position that the voir dire examination
should be conducted by the district judges rather than by
attorneys or litigants. Discussion among the judges took note
of the extended nature of the juror selection process which
                                 17 


tends to result in those state courts where the judges allow
lawyers to participate in the actual conduct of the voir dire
examination. The Conference directed the committee to make
an updated and more detailed study of this subject matter.

   COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF 

           THE CRIMINAL LAW 

   The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Criminal Law was presented by the Chairman, Judge Alfonso
J. Zirpoli.
                        BAIL REFORM ACT

   Judge Zirpoli advised the Conference that his committee
was unanimously of the view that an amendment to the Bail
Reform Act of 1966 is necessary to authorize judicial officers to
consider "the safety of any other person or the community in
setting conditions of release." The necessity is highlighted by
conflicting circuit court decisions as to whether a judicial officer
may consider evidence that a defendant, if released, presents a
danger to the safety of any other person or the community. The
Conference which approved a similar legislative proposal in
1971 (Conf. Rept., p. 40) agreed with the recommendation of
the committee and directed the Director of the Administrative
Office to transmit the proposed amendment to the Congress.

                    SENATE RESOLUTION      578
   Judge Zirpoli advised the Conference that Senators Nunn
and Percy had communicated with the Conference regarding
Senate Resolution 578, 94th Congress, wherein the Senate
found that the amounts of bail set for drug law defendants are
often too low to insure their presence for trial, and. upon
conviction, for sentencing and incarceration. The resolution
urges federal judges to set more realistic bail for such offenders.
The copies of the resolution have been mailed by the Admin­
istrative Office to all district judges and the committee has. re­
quested the Administrative Office to secure, if possible, such
statistics as will truly reflect the number of instances in which
major drug offenders who have been released on bail have
failed to appear for trial or sentencing. Judge Zirpoli· stated
that his committee was of the view that the amendment to the
                               18 


Bail Reform Act mentioned above would be one way of com­
bating the problem and further recommended and the Con­
ference approved a proposal for amendment to the Speedy
Trial Act. Because of conflicting opinions on the applicability
of the exclusions of Section 3161 (h) of Title 18, United States
Code, to the interim limits specified in Section 3164 of Title
18, it would be advisable to amend the Speedy Trial Act by
specifically providing that the exclusions of Section 3161 (h)
shall apply to the interim limitations specified in Section 3164.

         AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER         313   OF TITLE   18, 

                     UNITED STATES CODE 


   At the April 1976 session of the Conference (Conf. Rept.,
p. 11) the Conference reaffirmed a previous recommendation
to provide for an amendment to Title 18, United States Code,
which would permit a hearing to determine whether or not an
accused is mentally competent to stand trial and to provide
for civil commitment after hearing with appropriate due proc­
ess safeguards of a defendant who having been charged with an
offense against the United States if found "not guilty by reason
of insanity" after raising the defense of lack of criminal respon­
sibility and who is further fOund by reason· of mental disease
or defect to be a danger to himself or the person or property of
others. Judge Zirpoli said that his committee had subsequently
received from the Committee to Implement the. Criminal Jus­
tice Act recommendations relating to the appointment of coun­
sel and psychiatrists and the sources from .which they will be
paid for their services. On recommendation of the committee
the Conference approved these suggested amendments and
directed the Director of the Administrative Office to advise Con­
gress thereof. Chief Judge Bazelon expressed concern with aU
current legislative proposals insofar as they do not deal with
the. problem of the retarded.


COMMITTEE 	ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
           BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM
  Judge Edward Weinfeld, Chairman, presented the report of
the Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy
System.
                                    19

          SALARIES AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR REFEREES

   The Conference considered the committee's report and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office,
the judicial councils and the district judges and took the fol­
lowing actions relating to bankruptcy judge positions and
changes in salaries and arrangements in the several districts
concerned. The Conference agreed that these actions would be
effective April 1, 1977 unless otherwise indicated and subject
to the availability of funds.
                           FIRST CIRCUIT
District of New Hampshire
     (I) Authorized the continuance of the part-time referee position
          at Manchester to become vacant by expiration of term on
          June 30, 1977, for a term of six years, effective July I, 1977,
          at the present salary, the regular place of office, territory and
          places of holding court to remain as at present.

                          SECOND CIRCUIT
Eastern District of New York
     (I) Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position
           at Brooklyn to become vacant by expiration of term on June
           30, 1977, for a term of six years, effective July I, 1977, at the
           present salary, the regular place of office, territory and places
           of holding court to remain as at present.
     (2) 	 Authorized the. discontinuance of Riverhead as a place of
      . 	 holding court for the full-time referee position transferred from
           Jamaica to Westbury by the Judicial Conference at its Septem­
           ber 1975 session.

                           THIRD CIRCUIT
District Court of the Virgin Islands
     (I) Established a part-time referee position for the District Court
           of the Virgin Islands, for a term of six years, such position
           to be a combined referee/federal magistrate position;
     (2) 	 Established the salary for bankruptcy service at .$3,500 per
           annum; and
     (3) 	 Designated the places of holding court to be at Charlotte
           Amalie on St. Thomas Island and Chris~iansted on St. Croix
           Island, and that the headquarters for the referee be established
           by the district court and subsequently approved by the Judicial
           Conference.
                                      20 

District of New Jersey
     (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position
           at Camden to become vacant by expiration of term on June
           30, 1977, for a term of six years, effective July 1, 1977, at the
           present salary, the regular place of office, territory and places
           of holding court to remain as at present.
Middle District of Pennsylvania
    (1) 	 Established a second full-time referee position with headquar­
          ters at Harrisburg, at an annual salary of $48,500;
    (2) 	 Designated Harrisburg, Wilkes-Barre, Scranton, Williamsport
          and Lewisburg as places of holding Court for the two full-time
          referees of the district; and
    (3) 	 Established concurrent district-wide jurisdiction with the other
          full-time referee of the district.
Western District of Pe'nnsylvania
    (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position
          at Erie to become vacant by expiration of term on July 19,
          1977, for a term of six years, effective July 20, 1977, at the
          present salary, the regular place of office, territory and places
          of holding court to remain as at present.

                           FOURTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of Virginia,
     (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the part-time referee position
           at Alexandria to become vacant by expiration of terIJ:!. on June
           30, 1977, for a term of six years, effective July 1, 1977, at the
           present salary, the regular place of office, territory and places
           of holding court to remain as at present.
Western District of Virginia
    (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the part-time referee position
          at Harrisonburg to become vacant by expiration of term on
          August 31, 1977, for a term of six years, effective September-I;
          1977; at the present salary, the regular place of office, territory
          and places of holding court to remain as at present.

                             FIFTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of Louisiana
     (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position
           at New Orleans to become vacant by expiration of term on
           September 6,1977, for a term of six years, effective September 7,
           1977, at the present salary, the regular place of office, territory,
           and places of holding court to remain as at present.
                                     21 

     (2) 	 Established concurrent district-wide jurisdiction for the two
           full-time referees of the district.

                            SIXTH CIRCUIT
Northern District of Ohio
    (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position
          at Cleveland to become vacant by expiration of term on Octo­
          ber 21, 1977, for a term of six years, effective October 22, 1977,
          at the present salary, the regular place of office, territory and
          places of holding court to remain as at present;
    (2) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position
          at Toledo to become vacant by expiration of term on August
          31, 1977, for a term of six years, effective September 1, 1977, at
          the present salary, the regular place of office, territory and
          places of holding court to remain as at present.

                          SEVENTH CIRCUIT
Northern District of Illinois
    (I) Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee 	poSItiOn
        at Rockford to become vacant by expiration of term on July
        25, 1977, for a term of six years, effective July 26, 1977, at the
        present salary, the regular place of office, territory and places
        of holding court to remain as at present.
Eastern District of Wisconsin
     (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position
         . at Milwaukee to become vacant by expiration of term on June
           30, 1977, for a term of six years, effective July 1, 1977, at the
           present salary, the regular place of office, territory and places
           of holding court to remain as at present.
     (2) 	 Authorized the continuance of the second full-time referee
           position at Milwaukee to become vacant by expiration of term
           on June 30, 1977, for a term of six years, effective July 1, 1977,
           at the present salary, the regular place of office, territory and
           places of hoiding coiIrt to remain as at present.
Western District of Wisconsin
    (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position
          at Madison to become vacant by expiration of term on July 31,
          1977. for a term of six years, effective August 1, 1977, at the
          present salary, the regular place of office and territory to remain
       . as at present;
    (2) 	 Retained Madison and LaCrosse as designated places of hold·
          ing court for the full-time referee position;
                                     22 

     (3) 	 Discontinued Beloit, effective immediately, as a place of hold­
           ing court for the referee position at Madison.

                          EIGHTH CIRCUIT
District of Minnesota
     (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position
           at St. Paul to become vacant by expiration of term on October
           31, 1977, for a term of six years, effective November 1, 1977, at
           the present salary, the regular place of office, territory and
           places of holding court to remain as at present.
Western District of Missouri
    (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee POSItIon
          at Kansas City to become vacant by expiration of term on
          August 31, 1977, for a term of six years, effective September 1,
          1977, at the present salary, the regular place of office, territory
          and places of holding court to remain as at present.

                            NINTH CIRCUIT
Northern District of California
    (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full·time referee position
          at San Jose to become vacant by expiration of term on October
          17, 1977, for a term of six years, effective October 18, 1977, at
          the present salary, the regular place 01 office, territory and
          places of holding court to remain as at present.
Central District of California
    (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position
          at Santa Ana to become vacant by expiration of term on Octo­
          ber 14, 1977, for a term of six years, effective October 15, 1977,
          at the present salary, the regular place of office, territory and
          places of holding court to remain as at present.
District of Oregon
     (1) 	 Increased the salary for the bankruptcy service of the part-time
           referee/federal magistrate position at Eugene from $16.500 to
           $18,900 per annum.

                            TENTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of Oklahoma
     (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the part-time referee position
           at Okmulgee to become vacant by expiration of term on June
           80. 1977, for a term of six years, effective July I, 1977. at the
           present salary, the regular place of office, territory and places
           of holding court to remain as at present.
                                23 

                        ApPROPRIATIONS

   Judge Weinfeld reported that a budget for the bankruptcy
system of approximately $31,000,000 was being requested for
fiscal year 1978 for the payment of salaries of 211 full-time and
26 part-time bankruptcy judges, plus the salaries of supporting
personnel and expenses of operating their offices. Receipts to
the Referees' Salary and Expense Fund in 1976 provided 83
percent of the total costs of the system.
   A total of 220,000 cases is expected for fiscal year 1977, a de­
cline of 26,549 cases from 1976. This is the second year of
decline in case filings which since 1967 have declined and in­
creased on a two-year cycle. The percentage of business cases
has increased regularly since 1970, from 8.3 percent in 1970 to
14.3 percent in 1976.

                   CHAPTER   XIII   GUIDELINE

   The Conference approved modification of Chapter XIII,
Guideline No.3, to eliminate the requirement that the referee
submit a copy of Chapter XIII trustee's semiannual report to
the judge concerning the operations of the trustee, with a copy
to the Administrative Office.

                       SALARY INCREASES

   The Conference approved a salary increase for all part­
time referees in bankruptcy in the percentage of 28.04 percent
of their current salaries, rounded to the nearest $100 and in
no event to exceed the statutory limitation of $24,200 per
annum and subject' also to the limitation on salaries of com­
bined referee/federal magistrate positions, as promulgated by
the Judicial Conference. The recommendation includes all rec­
ommendations affecting part-time referee in bankruptcy posi­
tions approved by the Conference at the current session and is
to be effective at the beginning of the pay period next follow­
ing the session of the Conference.

                          LEGISLATION

  Judge Weinfeld called to the attention of the Conference
H.R. 6, 95th Congress, which would make major changes in the
bankruptcy system, the principal change being the separation
                                   24 


of the bankruptcy courts from the United States district courts
and establishing them as an independent court system under
Article III of the Constitution. Inasmuch as hearings have
been completed on H.R. 6 and the bill is currently being
marked up in the Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Com­
mittee, the Conference approved the following resolution:
       REsoLVED that the Judicial Conference of the United States
    opposes legislation pending in the Congress which would con­
    vert bankruptcy courts into separate Article I or Article III
    courts, and giving Article III tenure to referees in bankruptcy.
      The Chief Justice is authorized to designate an ad hoc com­
    mittee to draft a supporting memorandum in implementation
    of this resolution.
      The Conference especially requests that at an appropriate
    time it be given an opportunity to present its views on this sub­
    ject matter to the Congress.

 COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
   The report of the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments
was presented by the Chairman, Judge George L. Hart, Jr.
   judge Hart reported that during the period from August 15,
1976 to February 15, 1977 the Committee had recommended
91 assignments which were undertaken by 61 judges. Of this
number, seven were senior circuit judges, seven were active
circuit judges, seventeen district judges in active status and
twenty~three senior district judges. One retired Supreme Court
Justice participated in eleven assignments. Ten assignments
involved two active judges from the Court of Claims, two active
judges from the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals and two
active judges of the Customs Court.
   Seven senior circuit judges, eleven senior district judges, and
one retired Supreme Court Justice carried out thirty-seven of
the fifty-six assignments to the circuit courts of appeals which
wer~ recommended durjng this period. Seven active circuit
judges, two active district judges, two active judges of the Court
of Customs and Patent Appeals and two active judges of the
Court of Claims participated in the other nineteen assignments
to the courts of appeals.
   Of the thirty-five assignments to the district courts, fifteen
senior district judges participated in seventeen assignments, the
remaining eighteen being carried out by fifteen active district
                               25 


judges and two active judges of the United States Customs
Court.

      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION 

          OF THE PROBATION SYSTEM 

  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Probation System was presented by the Chairman, Judge Al­
bert C. Wollenberg.

                    SENTENCING INSTITUTES

  The Conference approved a joint sentencing institute for
the Second and Seventh Judicial Circuits to be held at the
Federal Correction Institution at Morgantown, West Virginia,
October 16-19, 1977. The institute will focus on sentencing
the youthful offerider. In addition to approving the tentative
agenda the Conference approved the time, place, and partici.
pants for the institute.

               ADVISORY CORRECTIONS COUNCIL

   Judge Wollenberg advised. that the Advisory Corrections
Council, authorized by 18 U.S.C. 5002, was reinstituted by
action of the Chief Justice and the Attorney General in Decem­
ber 1976. The Chief Justice has designated for the three judi­
cial positions on the council, Judges Gerald B. Tjoflat, Edward
S. Northrop and Albert G. Wollenberg. The Chief of the Divi·
sion of Probation of the Administrative Office serves as an ex­
officio member. The Council met in January and is scheduled
to meet again in April when its agenda will include the need
for a Bureau of Criininal Justice Information and Statistics, a:
proposed federal sentencing model, a prognosis for federal cor­
rections in the. next ten years, including institution and pro­
gram needs, and the Youth Corrections Act and whether.it is in
conformity with needs and objectives of the. federal judicial
system.
          PROBATION SYSTEM FOR THE CANAL ZONE

  The Conference approved and authorized the Director of
the Administrative. Office to transmit to the Congress proposed
legislation which would transfer the probation personnel of
the United States District Court for the District of the Canal
                                   26 


 Zone from the Canal Zone Government to the federal proba­
 tion system. Judge Wollenberg pointed out that such transfer
 would save the Canal Zone Government the expense of admin­
 istering the office and would ally the probation personnel more
 closely with the United States District Court. It would have
 the further effect of permitting the Canal Zone office to be fully
 integrated into the federal probation system and would afford
 its personnel the benefits of training programs and adminis­
 trative sup(port that other personnel of the federal probation
 system currently enjoy.

 COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
       FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM
   The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
 Federal Magistrates System was presented by the Chairman,
 Judge Charles M. Metzner.

          JURISDICTION CHECKLIST AND MODEL RULES

     Immediately following the enactment of Public Law 94-577,
  the bill to clarify and broaden the jurisdiction of United States
  magistrates, the committee diStributed to all federal judges and
  magistrates a draft revision of the jurisdiction checklist of the
  duties that might be assigned t6 magistrates by the district
  courts. Because of the need to make the document available to
. the courts as soon as the bill became law, the committee dis­
  tributed it in preliminary form and. solicited suggestions·· for
  improvement from judges and magistrates. The committee con­
  sidered the comments submitted, made appropriate changes
  based on those comments, and approved the checklist in final
 form.
     Section 636 (b) (4) of the newly amended jurisdiction law
 provides that:                                                     i


       Each district court shall establish rules pursuant to which . •
     the magistrates shall discharge their duties.
  To assist the district courts in updating their local rules, to
take account of changes in court procedures mandated by the
new law, and to encourage uniformity among the courts, the
committee has prepared some suggested model rules to imple­
ment Public Law 94·577.
                                   27 

   The Conference authorized the Administrative Office to
distribute the committee's jurisdiction checklist and model rules
to all judges and magistrates for their assistance in implement­
ing the new jurisdiction legislation.

        AMENDMENT OF CONFLICT-OF-INTEREST RULE                 7
   The Judicial Conference adopted Conflict-of-Interest Rule
7 at its October 1969 session (see Conf. Rept. pp. 79-80), which
prohibits a part-time magistrate who performs any "additional
duties" other than the handling of prisoner petitions and
special master references, from all practice (civil and criminal)
in the district court of his appointment. The rule reads as
follows:
      A part-time magistrate who is assigned additional duties
    under Section 636 (b) of Title 28, United States Code, may not
    appear as counsel in any case, civil or criminal, in the district
    court for which he is appointed. This prohibition shall not
    extend to a part-time magistrate whose additional assignments
    are limited to the review of prisoner petitions or service as a
    special master in a specified case.

   The rule was adpoted in recognition of expressed concerns
that it would be inappropriate to assign substantial "additional
duties" to a lawyer practicing before the court which he serves.
The Conference considered the possible appearance of favori­
tism,as well as the potential discomfort that a private attorney
might feel, when opposing counsel in one case is the same indi­
vidual who will prepare an important ruling or conduct a
pretrial conference in another case in which the attorney has
an interest.
   Technically, any duty which could not be performed by a
United States commissioner or is not listed in 28 U.S.C.
§636 (a) may be denominated an "additional duty," and thus
fall within the scope of Conflict-of-Interest Rule 7.
   The committee advised that it has received requests from
the courts that the exceptions to the rule be expanded to in­
clude the conduct of post-indictment arraignments under Rules
10 and 11 and the receipt of grand jury returns under Rule 6
of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. Briefly, the prin­
cipal arguments cited in favor of extending the exceptions
are that:
                                    28
     (1) 	 The time limits of the Speedy Trial Act require many dis­
            trict courts to rely more heavily on the assistance of magis­
            trates during the initial proceedings in criminal cases;
     (2) 	 The conduct of arraignments and the receipt of grand jury
           returns are preliminary criminal matters very much akin
           to commissioner-type duties performed under §636 (a) of
           the Magistrates Act; and
     (3) 	 Judges have reported substantial difficulties in obtaining
           competent attorneys who are willing to forgo their civil .
           practice in the district court to perform duties for the
           court.
   The committee expressed the view that the conduct of ar­
raignments and the receipts of grand jury returns by part-time
magistrates would benefit a number of courts. Performance of
the suggested initial duties in criminal cases by part-time magis­
trates, moreover, would not appear to erode the underlying
rationale of the rule or increase the "dangers of retaining a
part-time employee who was both a confidant of the. judge in
handling general court business and an advocate at the .bar."
Accordingly, the Conference agreed to the recommendation
that Rule 7 be amended to include the above two duties as
exceptions to the prohibition on the performance of additional
duties by part-time magistrates.

               CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

   If sufficient funds are appropriated by the Congress for the
fiscal year 1978, to cover the authorizations made by the Con­
ference in September 1976 (see Conf. Rept. pp_ 54-58), there
will be 159 full-time magistrate positions, 306 part-time magis­
trate positions, and 18 combination referee-magistrate or clerk­
magistrate positions. The committee recommended and the
Conference approved the following:
    (1) 	 Authorization of three new full-time positions.
    (2) 	 Conversion of two part-time positions to full-time status.·'
    (3) 	 Authorization of five new part-time positions.
    (4) 	 Authorization of one new combination position.
    (5) 	 Conversion of one combination position to a part-time
          position.
    (6) 	 Discontinuance of five part-time positions.
    (7) 	 Increases in the salaries of nine part-time positions.
                                    29
     (8) 	 Continuation of one full-time position, and one part-time
           position for new terms of office.
     (9) 	 Continuation of one part-time position through the incum­
           bent's current term of office.
    (10) 	 Changes in the official locations of one full-time position
           and one part-time position.
   This action will result in an increase in the number of full­
time positions authorized from 159 to 164, a net decrease in the
number of part-time positions from 306 to 305, and no change
in the number (18) of combination positions. The recommen­
dations of the Administrative Office, the district courts, the
judicial councils of the circuits, and those of the committee, as
approved, are set out below to be made effective when appro­
priated funds are available:

                           FIRST CIRCUIT
District of Rhode Island
     (1) 	 Extended the time for the discontinuance of the part-time
           magistrate position at Providence from the date of the
           appointment of the authorized new fuII-time magistrate
           until the normal expiration of the current term of the
           incumbent.
                          THIRD CIRCUIT
Middle District of Pennsylvania
    (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
          Williamsport from $1.393 to $2,786 per annum.
District of the Virgin Islands
     (1) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position for ap­
           pointment at Charlotte Amalie at a salary of $14,633 per
           annum.
     (2) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position for ap­
           pointment at Christiansted at a salary of $14,633 per
           annum.
     (3) 	 Authorized one of the two part-time positions, at the
           court's option, as a combination bankruptcy judge-magis­
           trate position.
                           FIFTH CIRCUIT
Northern District of Georgia
    (I) Authorized an additional full-time magistrate position for
        appointment at Atlanta at a salary of $39,600 per annum.
                                     30
 Southern District of Georgia
     (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Augusta to
           a full-time magistrate position at a salary of $39.600 per
           annum.
     (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Augusta from $16,510 to $19,800 per annum until conver­
           sion to full-time status.
     (3) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Savannah from $16.510 to $19,800 per annum.
Northern District of Mississippi
    (I) 	Authorized a new full-time magistrate position for ap­
          pointment at Aberdeen or Oxford at a salary of $39.600
          per annum.
    (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at Aber­
          deen. Oxford. Tupelo and Kosciusko. effective upon the
          appointment of the full-time magistrate at either Aberdeen
          or Oxford.

                          SEVENTH CIRCUIT
Northern District of lllinois
    (1) 	 Authorized an additional full-time magistrate position for
          appointment at Chicago at a salary of .$39,600 per annum.
    (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
          "Rockford/Ottawa" from .$11,164 to $19,800 per annum.
    (3) 	 Changed the official location of the part-time magistrate
          position at "Rockford/Ottawa" to "Rockford or Freeport."
Southern District of Illinois
    (I) Converted the part-time magistrate position at Springfield
          to full-time status at a salary of .$89,600 per annum.
    {2} 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Alton,
          effective upon the appointment of the full-time magistrate
          at Springfield.

                          EIGHTH CIRCUIT
District of North Dakota
     (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Fargo from $2,089 to $3,:483 per annum.
District of South Dakota
     (I) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
          Pierre from $3,483 to $9,871 per annum.
                                     31

                            NINTH CIRCUIT
District of Arizona
     (I) Authorized 	a new part-time magistrate position for ap­
           pointment at either Window Rock or Tuba City at a salary
           of $3,483 per annum.
     (2) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position for ap­
           pointment at Nogales at a salary of $8,361 per annum.
     (3) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position for ap­
           pointment at Douglas or Bisbee at a salary of $6,968 per
           annum.
Northern District of California
    (I) 	 Changed the official location of the full-time magistrate
          position at Monterey to San Francisco.
    (2) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position for ap­
          pointment at Monterey at a salary of $19,800 per annum.
Southern District of California
     (I) Continued the first full-time magistrate position 	at San
         Diego for an additional eight-year term at the currently
         authorized salary of $39,600 per annum.
District of Idaho
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Couer
           d'Alene for an additional four-year term.
     (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Coeur d'Alene from $ 1,393 to $2,089 per annum.
District of Nevada
     (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Reno from $8,361 to $14,633 per annum.
     (2) 	 Converted the combination clerk-magistrate position at Las
           Vegas to a part-time magistrate position at a salary of $696
           per annum.
                            TENTH CIRCUIT
District of Wyoming
     (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Cheyenne from $8,361 to $16,510 per annum.

   COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT THE CRIMINAL
               JUSTICE ACT
  The report of the Committee to Implement the Criminal
Justice Act was presented by the Chairman, Judge Dudley B.
BonsaI.
                               32

                 ApPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

    The Conference authorized the Director of the Administra­
 tive Office to distribute copies of the report on appointments
 and payments under the Criminal Justice Act for the fiscal
 year 1976 and the transition quarter ending September 30,
 1976 to all chief judges, all federal defender organizations and
 to others who may request copies. This report shows that
 during fiscal year 1976 approximately 47,000 persons were
 represented by assigned counselor by defender organizations
 established pursuant to the Criminal Justice Act. This figure
represents no increase over fiscal year 1975, as compared with
a 10 percent increase between fiscal years 1974 and 1975.
    The sum of $19,046,000 was appropriated for implementa­
 tion of the Criminal Justice Act in fiscal year 1976, and the
 transition quarter was covered by an additional appropriation
equal to 25 percent of this amount. As of the present, these
appropriations appear to be adequate to meet the costs.
    The chief judges of the courts of appeals approved 552
claims for compensation in excess of the statutory limitation
of $1,000 for felony cases in fiscal year 1976 and the transition
quarter. The projected cost of providing transcripts, expert and
other services during fiscal year 1976 is $2,450,000 as com­
pared to the $1,765,697 paid from fiscal year 1975 appropria­
tions. As in the past, the cost of transcripts commands the
predominate share of this category, but the increase in the
cost of interpreters for fiscal year 1976, does merit concern.
   The costs of operating the 22 federal public defender offices
in fiscal year 1976 was approximately $4.8 million, while the
seven community defender organizations which received sus­
taining grants, operated on a total budget of $2,036,442. The
average cost of federal public defender representation, includ­
ing appeals, was $411 per case in fiscal year 1976, while com­
munity defender representation averaged $427 per case. The
comparable figure for private panel attorneys was $396 per case.
                                                              " !



  GRANT REQUESTS-COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS,'

  The Conference considered grant applications from the re­
spective community defender organizations for fiscal year 1978
and approved sustaining grants for the fiscal year ending Sep­
tember 30, 1978, as follows:
                                         33
     Federal Defenders of San Diego, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. $677,000 (pc,      7/
     Federal Defender Program, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia .. .               211,000 ,/
     Federal Defender Program, Inc., Chicago, Illinois .. .              336,000 ,,/
     Legal Aid and Defender Assn., Detroit, Michigan .. .                584,000./
     Community Defender Organization, Minneapolis,
       Minnesota .................................. .                       39,630./
     Federal Defender Services Unit of the Legal Aid
       Society of New york ......................... . 
 200,000 q oq crol
     Federal Defender Section of the Mea-apolica:Il Public
       D@fenaef Sel voces, Inc:;·PorthrmJ:;-t)regon ....... .
     Federal Court Division of the Defender Association
       of Philadelphia .............................. .                  322,000_ _
                                                                                3 ,?f'1C,30
   BUDGET REQUESTS-FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDER OFFICES

   The District of South Carolina and the Southern District of
West Virginia have established federal public defender offices,
raising the total number of such offices to 24. The Criminal
Justice Act, as amended, requires each federal public defender
organization, established pursuant to subsection (h) (2) (A), to
submit a proposed budget to be approved by the Judicial Con­
ference in accordance with section 605 of title 28, United States
Code. The Conference approved the amounts shown below:
                             FY 1977                              FY 1978
                     Staff                              . Staff
               Att,s. 1nv. Secys.       Amount    A ttys. 1nv. Secys.         A mount

District of SQuth Carolina
Requested       3     1    2           $143,900     3     1         2        $158,200
Approved        3     1    2            143,900     3     1         2         158,200
Southern District ofWest Virginia
Requested      2          1      103,250            2                1        104,900
Approved       2          1      103,250            2                1        104,900

  In addition, the federal public defender office for the East­
ern District of California submitted a supplemental budget
request for the remainder of fiscal year 1977 and for fiscal
year 1978 in order to establish a branch office in the Fresno
Division. The Conference approved the amounts shown below:
                                        34
                            FY 1977                            FY 1978
                    Staff                              Staff
              Attys. 1nv.    Secys.    Amount    Attys. 1nv.    Secys.    Amount

Eastern District of California
Supplement
  Requested     2              1      $ 81,722    2      1        1      $1l2,345
  Approved      2     1        I        81,722    2      I        1       112,345

  ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR DEFENDER OFFICE OPERATIONS

   During the past year, unanticipated expenses have had an
adverse affect upon the fiscal stability and operational flexi­
bility of defender offices. These expenses arise because of
general cost-of-living salary increases, unexpectedly large ex­
penses for expert services in extended and notorious cases, or
other unanticipated occurrences such as a requirement to rep­
resent a defendant at a retrial held at a location far distant from
and out of the district of the defender. The requirement to
make these expenditures often occurs when supplemental
budget or grant requests cannot be timely considered by your
committee and approved by the Judicial Conference.
   As a solution to this problem, the Conference approved the
following resolution:
       That the Director of the Administrative Office be authorized
    to increase the budget of a federal public defender office and
    approve supplemental grants for community defender organiza­
    tions to the extent necessary to cover general (cost-of-living)
    pay increases and for unforeseen or unanticipated expenses;
    provided. that such additional funds shall not exceed 15 per­
    cent of the amount approved by the Judicial Conference for
    each such office or organization.

                                   LEGISLATION

   Bills to provide for the payment to a defendant by thf;.'.
United States, of attorneys' fees and other costs in criminal­
cases where the ultimate disposition is other than a conviction,
have been introduced in both the 94th and 95th Congresses. In
view of the partial endorsement by the House of Delegates of
the American Bar Association, the committee reviewed the legis­
lation. The bill entitles the defendant to receive reasonable
attorneys' fees and costs, as determined by the court, with reo
                                35 


 spect to any federal criminal charge of which the ultimate dis­
 position is other than a conviction, unless the court determines
such payment is not in the interest of justice. The court may
also determine that payment is in the interest of justice even if
 the ultimate disposition with regard to a charge is a conviction.
In any proceeding to determine an award of fees or other costs,
the United States Attorney is entitled to notice and an oppor­
 tunity to make reports and motions to the court. The bill
further requires the making of a record of such proceedings
and a statement by the court on the record of the reasons for
its determination. There is also a listing of factors to be con­
sidered by the court in reaching its determination. Finally, the
court's determination is subject to review in the same manner
as other judgments. The American Bar Association opposes, in
principle, payment of attorney's fees, but supports payment of
out-of-pocket expenses. The Conference agreed with the com­
mittee recommendation that it should neither endorse nor op­
pose this legislation, pointing out, however, that enactment will
increase the workload of an already overburdened judiciary
and that the bill should clearly task the Department of Justice
with responsibility for funding.

                          GUIDELINES

  The Conference was advised that the committee reviewed
the Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice
Act and voted approval of the revised version.


    COMMITTEE ON THE RULES OF PRACTICE 

             AND PROCEDURE 

  Judge Roszel C. Thomsen, Chairman, presented the report
of the Committee on the Rules of Practice and Procedure.

              ApPELLATE REVIEW OF SENTENCES

  At the meeting of the Conference in September 1976, the
committee reported that because of the changes which had
been made in proposed Rule 35.1 of the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure since the original draft was circulated to
bench and bar, the advisory committee planned to circulate
an amended draft to bench and bar and to hold public hear­
                                 36 


 ings thereon. Some 80 replies were received as a result of that
 circulation. Public hearings were held at which two appellate
 judges and representatives of several organizations were heard.
 At the public hearing, a representative of the staff of Senator
 Edward Kennedy submitted a letter from the Senator and a
 copy of S. 181, which he had introduced on January 11, 1977.
 That bill, inter alia, would establish a United States Commis­
 sion on Sentencing; it also includes specific provisions for
 appellate review of sentences. A representative of the staff of
 Chairman Peter Rodino of the House Judiciary Committee
 submitted a letter from the Chairman and a copy of H.R. 1182,
 which is generally similar to S. 181. In his letter the Chairman
 urged that any proposal of the Judicial Conference for appel­
 late review of sentences be achieved by legislation rather than
 by the normal rule-making process. The Advisory Committee
 on Criminal Rules and the Advisory Committee on Appellate
 Rules reconsidered proposed Rule 35.1 and the comments
 received and made further changes. The Conference noted that
 in the normal course -proposed rules are forwarded by the
 Conference to the Supreme Court for promulgation by the
 Court. If promulgated, they are forwarded to the Congress
and take effect in due course in the absence of a congressional
veto. In the present instance, however, it was agreed that affirm­
ative congressional action is required to provide for a right of
'l-ppeal by the government. There was alSo agreement that the
details of the procedures ar,e appropriately dealt, with by a rule
and that review at the instance of either the defendant or the
government should be dealt with in integrated fashion in a
single rule.
   Accordingl y the Conference approved the recommendation
that the proposed Rule 35.1 be approved and be forwarded by
the Director of the Administrative Office to the Congress for
enactrrient except that the Conference agreed appellate review '
shall be available to a defendant only if the sentence is for one,
year or longer.                                                    .
                    OTHER CRIMINAL RULES

   Pursuant to Public Law 94-349, the effective date of the fol­
lowing proposed amendments to the Criminal Rules 6 (e), 23,
24, 40.1, and 41 (c) (2), previously approved by the Judicial
:::onference and promulgated by the Supreme Court on April
                               37 


26, 1976, was deferred to August 1, 1977. Judge Tomsen re­
ported that the Subcommittee on Criminal Justice of the
House Judiciary Committee held hearings on these proposed
rules on February 23 and 24 and March 2, 1977 and a new bill
is awaited.

              BICENTENNIAL COMMITTEE
   Chief Judge Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr., Chairman, pre­
sented the report of the Bicentennial Committee.
   On recommendation of the committee, in order more accu­
rately to reflect the scope of the committee activities and
projects, the Conference approved the change in the name of
the committee to "Committee on Bicentennial of Independ­
ence and the Constitution."
   Judge Haynsworth stated that the several projects of the
committee are being carried on under the coordinator, Chief
J udgt:; Howard T. Markey. The following are the reports on
the individual projects:

                       MOVIES PRO1ECT

   Under the leadership of Mr. Justice White, the five films
depicting the role of the Supreme Court in "Marbury v.
Madison,'} ((Gibbons v. Ogden/' ((McCulloch v. Maryland/'
and two films of "Burr," are nearing completion. The gO-min­
ute videotape compilation to be made from the films is ex­
pected by May 1, 1977. Much remains to be done, however,
before the films and videotape can be made available for show­
ing. The movies subcommittee is currently considering the
number of release prints to be contracted for and produced,
the nature, source, and cost of teaching materials toaccom­
pany the films in schools, the nature of film distribution, the
selection of a distributor, and the nature and cost of promo­
tion, if any.
                  BIOGRAPHICAL DIRECTORY

  The subcommittee chairman, Judge James M. Carter, re­
ports that 462 living judges have completed quelStionnaires.
A third, and last, reminder has gone to the living judges who
have not yet forwarded their questionnaires. The circuit com·
                                38 


mittees have completed questionnaires on deceased judges who
served after 1899. Professor Hall will complete his preparation
of questionnaires on those who served prior to 1899 (includ­
ing territorial judges) by March 1, 1978. Well before that time,
questionnaires will be filled out, to the extent possible with
available public infonnation, on all judges who did not com­
plete a questionnaire. An organization will then be selected to
enter the data in a computer and a computer-printed directory
will be prepared. Arrangement has been made for newly­
appointed judges to complete a questionnaire upon their ap­
pointment, so that the directory will be continuously updated.

                         POPULAR BOOK

  Judge Henry Friendly expects that his subcommittee will be
reviewing the completed manuscript in June. The book is
devoted to the judicial system, emphasizing the federal courts
hut including material on state courts, and is intended for
primary use at senior high and junior college levels. The
initial versions were rejected by the subcommitte as too com­
plex and pedantic. Arrangements have been made for a second
writer to edit the earlier manuscript to meet the project goals
and that work is about half finished at this time.

                       CIRCUIT HISTORIES

   The Sixth Circuit and the District of Columbia Circuit have
completed work on their histories. The Court of Claims has
completed Volume I, the larger of two intended volumes. The
Third, Fourth and Ninth Circuits are working on their his­
tories. Judge Alexander Lawrence and his subcommittee will
he considering plans for printing circuit histories, some of
which will not be completed until 1979.

      COMMITTEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES
  Judge Richard H. Chambers, Chainnan of the Committee
on Pacific Territories, outlined the scope of the committee'~
activities. He pointed out in connection with the action of the
Conference to recommend abolishing diversity jurisdiction,
that the original reasons for establishing diversity jurisdiction
may exist today in the Pacific Territories. In accordance with
                                 39 


 his recommendation, the Conference approved an exception
 to the policy of eliminating diversity jurisdiction for the
 Pacific Trust Territories (see above, pp. 8, 9).


    COMMITTEE TO CONSIDER STANDARDS FOR 

       ADMISSION TO PRACTICE IN THE 

              FEDERAL COURTS 

    Chief Judge Edward J. Devitt, Chairman, presented the
 report of the Committee to Consider Standards for Admission
 to Practice in the Federal Courts.
    Judge Devitt stated that the committee, through the Ad­
 ministrative Office and the Federal Judicial Center, is conduct­
 ing a systematic research program and is planning a series of
 public hearings to determine the matter of the need for im­
 provement in federal trial advocacy and the best method of
 satisfying that need. Judges and lawyers will be asked to ex­
 press their views on the subject through responses to question­
 nain!s and judges will be asked to rate the presentation of
counsel in a limited number of cases. All interested parties,
including the law school communities, will be afforded an
opportunity to express themselves in writing or at public
hearings. The committee estimates that it will take approxi­
mately one year to conduct needful research and fact-finding.
The committee expects to have its recommendations ready to
present to the September 1978 session of the Judicial Con­
ference.                                       .


   PRETERMISSION OF TERMS OF THE COURTS
                 OF APPEALS
   The Conference approved the pretermission of terms of
courts of appeals, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, for 1977 for all
sessions of the Court of Appeals of the Fourth Circuit to be
held at Ashville, North Carolina; for all sessions of the Court
of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit to be held outside New Orleans,
Louisiana; for all sessions of the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals
to be held outside St. Paul, Minnesota, and St. Louis, Missouri;
and for all sessions of the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals to
be held at Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
                                   40

               NEXT CONFERENCE SESSION
   The Chief Justice, in reminding the members of the Con­
ference that the next session would be held on September 15
and 16, 1977, advised that the British members of the Anglo
American Interchange would be in Washington at that time.
The Conference agreed to invite the members of the Inter­
change to attend any or all of the sessions of the Judicial Con­
ference to be held in September.

                         RESOLUTIONS
  In addition to expressing its agreement with the resolution
in honor of Judge Elbert Parr Tuttle, adopted by the Advi­
sory Committee on Judicial Activities (see above p. 15). the
Conference also took note that Judge Walter E. Hoffman
would be retiring as Director of the Federal Judicial Center
before the next regular session of the Conference and th:1t
Judge Roy W. Harper had completed his term as Chairman. of
the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments and accordingly
adopted theJollowing resolutions:
      The Judicial Conference of the United States expresses itS
    appreciation to Judge Walter E. Hoffman for the service he has
   rendered to the Conference and to the Federal judiciary as
    Director of the Federal Judicial Center. during the last two and
   one-half years.
      judge Hoffman is the third Director of the Center and the
   first district judge to occupy this important position, having
   succeeded two distinguished former directors, Supreme Court
   Justice Tom C. Clark and Circuit judge Alfred P. Murrah.
      Judge Hoffman brought to the Center a wealth of experie~ce
   as a federal trial judge and a knowledge of the work of the Cen­
   ter through many yeats of association in efforts to imprO've
   judicial administration. At the time of his selection as DireCtor ,
   he had served more than twenty years asa judge of the Eastern
   District of Virginia and for almost twelve years as its Chief !
   Judge. For six years he represented the Fourth Circuit as a dis­
   trict judge member of this Conference;                          .
      We extend to Judge Hoffman our hopes and desires for con­
   tinued service to the judiciary.

     The Judicial Conference of the United States expresses Its
   appreciation to Senior judge Roy W. Harper for his outStand­
                                   41

   ing service to the Conference as Chairman of the Committee
   on Intercircuit Assignments. As a member of the committee
   since 1968 and its chairman since 1969, Judge Harper assisted
   the Chief Justice and the Conference in discharging the statu­
   tory duty of making plans for the assignment of judges to and
   from circuits and districts in the interest of the expedition of
   judicial business. In carrying out his assignment, a duty he per­
   formed so well and so efficiently, Judge Harper displayed a re­
   markable devotion to the Federal Judiciary. Although his task
   was most demanding, he succeeded in gaining the respect. and
   admiration of all with whom he worked. The Conference
   salutes him for his dedicated leadership and service.

   The Conference noted with deep regret the death of its
former member, the distinguished Chief Judge of the Seventh
Circuit Cour~ of Appeals John S.. Hastings and adopted the
following memorial resolution:

      John S. Hastings, a lawyer from Washington, Indiana, was
    apPointed a Circuit 'Judge .for .the. Seventh Circuit on August
    26, 1957. He was Chlef'}udge of the Circuit and a member of
    this Conference from 1958 to 1968. In addition to his outstand­
    ing work as an active and, later, a senior judge of his court, he
   made significant contributions as a member of important com­
   mittees of the Conference, and a judge assigned by the Chief
   Justice to the Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals.
      An historic development of recent years has been the vast
   increase in appointment of counsel under the Criminal Justice
   Act. As first Chairman of the Conference Committee imple­
   menting the Act, Judge Hastings was a pioneer, and he has left
   his lasting imprint upon this area of the administration of jus­
   tice. He also served as a member of the Committee on Court
   Administration from 1958 to 1968 and the ad hoc committee on
   committees in 1967; at the time of his death he was a member
   of the Advisory Committee on Civil Rules, the Advisory Com­
   mittee on Appellate Rules; and the Bicentennial Committee.
      In every role, Judge Hastings won the respect and affection
   of everyone with whom he worked, and was revered as leader,
   counselor and friend. Hi.s death on February 7, 1977, deprived
   the Federal Judiciary of a distinguished member. The Judicial
   Conference of the United States adopts this resolution in mem­
   ory and appreciation of his life and service. The sympathy of
   all its members is extended to Mrs. Esther Hastings and their
   sons, William and James.
                                42

                          ELECTIONS
   The Conference elected Judge John C. Godbold to a full
term as a member of the Board of the Federal Judicial Center
as required by 28 U.S.c. 621 (b). Judge Godbold is currently
serving the unexpired term of Judge Griffin B. Bell which
terminates March 28,1977.
   The Conference elected John W. Macy for an additional
term as a member of the Board of Certification for Circuit
Executive as required by 28 U.S:C. 322 (f). His current term
expires July 1, 1977.

          RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION
   The Conference authorized the immediate release of mat­
ters considered at this session where necessary for legislative or
administrative action.

                                     WARREN    E. BURGER
                            Chief Justice of the United States
  MARCH   26, 1977
                                                INDEX

                                                                                                      Page
Additional judgeships. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         5

Administrative Office of the U. S. Courts: 

   Report of the Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             2

Admission to practice in the federal courts, standards to consider: 

   Committee on, report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             39 

Advisory Corrections Council ...............................                                           25 

Amendment of conflict of interest rule 7 ......................                                        27 

Amendments to chapter 313 of title 18, U.S.C. . . ... ...... .. . .. .                                 18 

Appellate review of sentences ...............................                                          35 

Appointments and payments under the Criminal Justice Act. . . .                                        32 

Appropriations .......................................... 4, 23, 32 

Attorneys' fees and other costs, payment to a defendant for. . . . . .                                 34 

Bail for drug law defendants, Senate Resolution 578 ...........                                        17 

Bail Reform Act of 1966 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        17 

Bankruptcy system: 

   Appropriations ........................................                                             23 

   Chapter XIII guideline ....... :........................                                            23 

   Committee on, report of ..... " ................. " ......                                          18 

   Legislation: 

        H.R. 6, 95th Congress, which would make major 

          changes in the bankruptcy system. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          23 

   Referees: 

        Chapter XIII guideline ............................                                            23 

       Salaries and arrangements for. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      19 

       Salary increases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        23 

   Salaries and arrangements for referees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      19 

   Salary increases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23 

Bicentennial committee: 

    Biographical directory .................................                                           37 

    Circuit histories .......................................                                          38 

    Committee on, report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            37 

    Movies proiect ...................................•.•..                                            S7 

    Popular book ......••.................................                                             S8 


                                                    43 

                                                        44 

                                                                                                             Pa(l8

Biographical directory .....................................                                                   37 

Canal Zone, probation system for. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        25 

Circuit executives: 

    Election of John W. Macy for an additional term as a 

       member of the Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   42 

    Balaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     10 

Circuit histories ...........................................                                                  38, 

Clerks of court, salaries of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. .               II ' 

Code of judicial conduct,e~ective date of compliance., . . . . .. . . .                                        14 

Community defender organizations: 

   Grant requests ....................... , .... , ....... , '. . .                                            32 

Conference: 

   Call of .... " ....... , .... , ..... ; ... , .......... ,.......                                           I

    Next session . '. ...... ,'........... ; .........'...... '~ . . . . . .                                  40 

   Release of action ............. ,........................ ,                                                42 

Court administration: 

    Additional judgeships ........... , .............. , .. , . . ..                              5

    Biennial survey of judgeship needs, .. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                6'

    Commi ttee on, report of ..'.. , . , ................... , . . . . .                          5

    Judicial review .............'. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            9

    Legislation: 

          Diversity jurisdiction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     8

          Emergency Livestock Credit Act. , ............ '" . . ..                                9

          Jurisdiction of the Customs Court ......... . . . . . . . . . .                         9

          Western District of Louisiana ............. " . . . . . . . .                           8

   Salaries for ungraded personnel: 

          Circuit executives .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10 

          Clerks of 'court ....... , ........... '. ...... , , . , , .. , , .                    II 

          United States magistrates , , , . , .. , . , ......... , . . . . . . .                11 

   Supporting personnel: 

          Courtroom deputies to senior judges .. ,., .... , . . . . . . .                         8

          Crier ,law clerks ............................ '. . . . . . .                           7

    Uniform rules of disciplinary enforcement....... . ........                                 '7 

   Weighted filing index ............ , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 6

Courtroom deputies to senior judges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 

Courts: 

    COluts of appeals: 

          Additional judgeships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5

        'Additional personnel ..............................                                      4

          Biennial survey ...................................                                     6

          Circuit histories ............•..................... >                                38 

                                                        45 

                                                                                                           PaDe
        Customs court:
            Jurisdiction of ....................................           9
        District courts:
            Additional judgeships ..................... , . . . . . . . .  5
            Additional personnel .... ,', ......•.. _...... , .... , .     4
            Amendment of conflict of interest rule 7 ........ , .... ,    27
            Biennial survey ,., .... , .................... ,.', .. ,.     6
            Jurisdictionalchecklist of model rules for magistrates, . .   26
            Weighted filing index ......... , . , ............... , . , 6                                          

Crier law clerks . , ......... , .. , , .. , ....... , ..........' ..... , .                                  7

Criminal Justice Act:
    Additional funding for defender office operations .... , . . . . .                                      34
    Appointments and payments. , ., , '. , ..... , ... , , ., .... " .                                      32
    Budget requests-federal public defender offices ......... , .                                           33
    Committee on, report of .. '" ............ " . .. .... . . ....                                         31
    Grant requests-community defender organizations .. , :....                                              32
    Guidelines ..... " ....... ,. . .............. ,., .... "...                                            35
    Legislation:
        To provide for the payment to a defendant by the
           United States of attorneys' fees and other costs in
           criminal cases where the ultimate disposition is
           other than a conviction "',, ....... , .. ,..........                                            34
Criminal law:
    Amendment to chapter 313, title 18, U.S.C. ...............                                              18
    Bail Refoml Act ......................... , •.. , , . , , .. , . . .                                    17
    Committee on, report of ................ , ....... , . . . . . . .                                      17
    Senate Resolution 578 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               17
Criminal rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
Diversity jurisdiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         8
Elections:
    John C. Godbold to a full term as a member of the Board
       of the Federal Judicial Center ............ .............                                            42
    John W. MaC}' for an additional teml as a member of the
       Board of Certification for Circuit Executives ...........                                            42
Emergency Livestock Credit Act . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     9
Federal Judicial Center:
    Election of John C. Godbold to a full teml as a member
      of the Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • .          42'
Federal public defenders offices:
    Additional funding.... .... ...... ... ....... ... ... .......                                          34
    Budget requests ................................. :.....                                                33
                                                        46


 Guidelines: 

      Bankruptcy ...........................................                                                   23 

      Criminal Justice Act. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . .                  35 

 Harper, Honorable Roy W.-Resolution expressing appreciation 

   to, as chairman of the Intercircuit Assignment Committee. . . .                                             40 

 Hastings, Honorable John S.-Resolution expressing regret on 

   the death of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     41 

 Hoffman, Honorable Walter E.-Resolution expressing appre-

   ciation to as Director of the Federal Judicial Center. . . . . . .. . .                                    40 

 Intercircuit assignment: 

      Committee on, report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 24 

Judges: 

      Additional. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        5

      Biographical directory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              37 

      Courtroom deputies to senior .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          8

     Crier law clerks ....'. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             7

      Travel to take depositions. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    15 

Judicial activities: 

      Committee on, report of ..................... " .... .... .                                             15 

     Tribute to Honorable Elbert P. Tuttle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              15 

Judicial conduct: 

      Effective date of compliance ............................                                               14 

     Joint committee on, report of .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       13 

     Outside employment of law clerks and secretaries .... . . . . . .                                        14 

     Travel of judges to take depositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         15 

Judicial review. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9

Judicial system, popular book on ....... , ........ .......... ..                                             38 

Juror qualification form, revision of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       16 

Juror utilization ..... " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... .                16 

Jury system: 

     Attorney participation in the voir dire ......... " . . . . . . . . .                                     16 

     Committee on, report of .. .. ... . ..... ...... ... ....... .. .                                         16 

     Juror utilization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          '16 

     Revision of juror qualification form . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          16 

Law clerks and secretaries, outside employment of .. . . . . . . . . . . .                                  . 'J 4 

Legislation: 

     Diversity jurisdiction. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                8

     Emergency Livestock Credit Act . . .. . .. . ......... ...... ..                                          9

     Jurisdiction of the Customs Court ........ , . . . . .. . .. . . . . .                                    9

     Major changes in the bankruptcy system, make, H.R. 6, 

        95th Congress .......................................                                                 23 

                                                      47

        Payment to a defendant by the U.S. of attorneys' fees and 

          other costs in criminal cases where the ultimate dispo­
          sition is other than a conviction, provide for the. . . . . . . . .                           34 

        Senate Resolution 578-bail set for drug defendants too . 

          low to insure their presence for trial. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   17 

        Western District of Louisiana-eliminate the statutory 

       designations of divisions .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              8

 Magistrates: 

    Amendment of conflict of interest rule 7 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         27 

    Changes in positions .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             28 

    Jurisdiction checklist of model rules. . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .                        26 

    Salaries of ............................................                                            11 

 Magistrates system: 

    Amendment of conflict of interest rule 7 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         27 

    Changes in magistrate positions ...................... " .                                          28 

    Commi ttee on, report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            26 

    Jurisdiction checklist of model rules. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .                       26 

Mental incompetency .. " . '" '" ... ... .. ... ..... .......... .                                      18 

Movies project ............................................                                            37 

Pacific territories: 

     Committee on, report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           38 

Pretermission of terms of courts of appeals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    39 

Probation system: 

    Advisory Corrections Council ...........................                                           25 

    Committee on, report of ....... '" ... ... ....... .. .... .. .                                    25 

     Probation system for the Canal Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     25 

    Sentencing institute .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        25 

Referees: 

    Chapter XIII guideline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           23 

    Salaries and arrangements for ......... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        19 

    Salary increases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23 

Resolutions: 

    Courtroom deputies to senior judges ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           8

    H.R. 6, 95·th Congress; opposing legislation pending in the 

       Congress which would convert bankruptcy courts into 

       separate Article I or Article III courts ..... ~ . . . . . . . . . . . .                        24 

    Resolution expressing appreciation to Honorable Roy W. 

       Harper for chairmanship of Intercircuit Assignment 

       Committee .......... '" .............. , ....... .......                                        40 

    Resolution expressing regret 	on the death of the Honor­
       able John S. Hastings ................ '" . ..... .......                                       40 

                                                           48 

                                                                                                               . Palle

         Resolution expressing appreciation to Honorable Walter
           E. Hoffman on directorship of the Federal Judicial 

          Center .............................................                                                    40 

         Resolution expressing appreciation to Honorable Elbert P. 

          Tuttle on chairmanship of Judicial Activities Committee. .                                              15 

 Review committee: 

     Committee on, report of .... '" ................ " . . . . . . .                                             11 

     Official officers who have not reported. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .                                13 

 Rules of disciplinary enforcement, uniform. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   7

 Rules of practice and procedure: 

     Appellate review of sentence. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         35 

     Commi nee on, report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     35 

     Criminal rules, other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 36 

 Salaries for ungraded personnel: 

     Circuit executives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .                10 

     Clerks of court ........................................                                                    11 

     Part-time referees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              23 

     United States magistrates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .                       11 

Sentencing institutes .......................................                                                    23 

Speedy Trial Act, amendment to .. " '" . . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . .. . .                                     18 

Statistics: 

     Bankruptcy ...........................................                                                   4, 23 

     Courts of appeals .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . .                 3

     Criminal Justice Act ...................................                                                    32 

     District Courts ........................................                                                     3

Supporting personnel: 

   Crier law clerks. . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .                    7

Travel of judges to take depositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         15 

Tuttle, 	Honorable Elbert P.-Resolution expressing apprecia· 

  tion for chairmanship of the advisory committee on judicial 

 activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     15 

Voir dire, attorney participation in the. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .                             16 

Weighted filing index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                6

Western District of Louisiana, eliminate statutory designations 

 and divisions of .........................................                                                       8

