           REPORT 

            of the 

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

            ,
       UNITF\1) STATES




       September :19, 20, 1979




         Washington, D.C.
               1979
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 



        William E. Foley 

            Director 

          REPORT 

           OF THE 

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

       UNITED STATES 




                   September 19, 20, 1979




                       Washington, D.C.
                            1979




   For ••1"   by the Superintendent or Doe_ota', u.s. G""emm"nt
                Prlntlnc orne... Waahln&ton, D.C. 20402
         THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331

 §331.   JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

   The Chief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of each
judicial circuit. the chief judge of the Court of Claims. the chief judge of the Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals. and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference
at such time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such con­
ference which shall be known as the Judicial Conference of the United States. Special ses­
sions of the conference may be called by the Chief Justice at such times and places as he may
designate.
   The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the circuit
and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held pursuant
to section 333 of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for three successive
years, except that in the year following the enactment of this amended section the judges in
the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for one year.
the judges in the second, fifth, and eighth circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for
two years and the judges in the third. sixth, ninth, and District of Columbia circuits shall
choose a district judge to serve for three years.
   If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit is
unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon any other ciruit or district judge from such
circuit. If the chief judge of the Court of Claims or the chief judge of the Court of Customs
and Patent Appeals is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon an associate judge of
such court. Every Judge summoned shall attend and, unless excused by the Chief Justice,
shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to the needs of his cir­
cuit or court and as to any matters in respeCt of which the administration of justice in the
courts of the United States may be improved.
  The conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from circuits or
districts where necessary. and shall submit suggestions to the various courts. in the interest of
uniformity and expedition of business.
   The conference shall also carryon a continuous study of the operation and effect of the
general rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as prescribed by the Supreme
Court for the other courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes in and addi­
tions to those rules as the conference may deem desirable to promote simplicity in procedure,
fairness in administration, the just determination of litigation, and the elimination of unjus­
tifiable expense and delay shall be recommended by the conference from time to time to the
Supreme Court for its consideration and adoption, modification or rejection, in accordance
with law.
  The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice. report to such conferenc;e
on matters relating to the business of the several courts of the United States, with particular
reference to cases to which the United States is a party.

  The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings of the
Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.




                                             (iv)
                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS 


                                                                                                            Page
Call of the Conference ............. , ............... , ...........                                        53 

Report of the Director of the United States Courts .... . . . . . . . . . . . ..                             55 

     Judicial Business of the Courts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..              55 

Report of the Federal Judicial Center. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...                  56 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ....................... "                                        56 

Committee on Court Administration ........................... "                                             56 

     Judicial Tenure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   57 

     Trial of Protracted Cases. .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . .. . . . . ..               57 

     Equal Employment Opportunity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                     58 

     Rental of Space and Facilities ................ : ............ "                                       58 

     Space Utilization .........................................                                            59 

    Additional JUdgeships .....................................                                             60 

     National Bureau of Justice Statistics ....................... "                                        60 

    Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1979 , ....................                                           61 

    Air Disaster Litigation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..         64 

    Attorneys' Fees .... -. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..      65 

    Diversity Jurisdiction ......................................                                           66 

    Judicial Review of Veterans' Claims. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                     66 

    Court of Labor-Management Relations ......................                                              67 

    Class Actions ............................................                                              68 

    Appellate Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                          69 

    Enforcement of State Custody Orders. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                       69 

    Standing to Sue. . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..     70 

    Declaratory Judgement in Cases Involving 

       Public Utilities ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..      72 

    Judicial Survivors Annuity Act. .............................                                           72 

    Retirement of Territorial Judges ............................                                           73 

    Tenure of Chief Judges of Circuit and 

       District Courts . -. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..    73 

    Delay of Proceedings by Attorneys ........................ ..                                           73 

    Cost-of-Living Allowances for Judicial Officers 

       and Employees Serving Outside the Continental 

       United States or in Alaska. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..             73 

    Transfer of the United States Parole Commission 

       to the Judicial Branch of Government. .....................                                          74 

    Libraries ..................._. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                  74 

    Limitations on Salaries of a Judge's 

       Personal Staff. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..     75 

    Guidelines for the Employment of 

       Secretaries and Law Clerks by Circuit Judges, 

      District Judges, and Bankruptcy Judges ....................                                           76 


                                                   (v)
                                                     (vi)

 Committee on the Budget . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 77 

      Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1980 ......................... 77 

      Budget Estimates for Fiscal Year 1981 ........................ 78 

 Judicial Ethics Committee. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 78 

 Advisory Panel on Financial Disclosure Reports and 

   Judicial Activities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 80 

      Codes of Conduct for Staff Attorneys, Circuit 

        Executives and Public Defenders. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. 81 

 Committee on the Administration of the Federal 

   Magistrates System .......................................... 81 

      Qualification Standards and Selection 

        Procedures ............................................ 81 

      Salaries of Full-time Magistrates ............................ 82 

      Salaries of Part-time Magistrates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 82 

      Changes in Magistrate Positions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 83 

      Legal Manual for United States Magistrates ................. " 86 

     Study 0 f the Magistrates System .................... ~ . . . . . . .. 87 

Committee on the Administration of the 

   Bankruptcy System ......................................... 87 

     Salaries and Arrangements for Bankruptcy 

        Judges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 87 

Committee on the Administration of the 

   Probation System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 88 

     Sentencing Institutes ...................................... 88 

     Disparity in Sentences .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 89 

     Probation Information Management 

        System ....................... , ............... , .. , ..... 90 

     Pretrial Services Agencies ...... , ........................... 91 

Committee on the Administrationof the Criminal Law .............. 91 

     Habeas Corpus. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 91 

     Fees and Expenses of Attorneys Representing 

       Indigent Persons in Civil Rights Actions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 92 

     In Came'ra Screening of Classified 

       Information ........................................... 93 

Committee on the Operation of the Jury System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 93 

     Use of Voter Registration Lists ....................... '" .... 94 

    Child Care Excuse of Jurors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. 94 

    Emergency Energy Shortage Procedures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 95 

    Orientation Film for Grand Jurors ........................... 96 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments .......................... 96 

Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act ................. '97 

    Appointments and Payments , ......... , ..... , . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 98 

    Budget Requests-Federal Public Defenders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 98 

    Grant Requests-Community Defender Organizations. . . . . . . . .. 99 

                                  (vii)

Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act (cont'd)
     Community Defender-Conditions of Grant .................. 100 

     Amendments to Criminal1ustice Act Guidelines ............... 101 

Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure .................... 101 

     Civil Rules ............................................... 101 

     Bankruptcy Rules ......................................... 102 

     Appellate Rules ........................................... 102 

     Criminal Rules ........................................... 103 

Committee to Consider Standards for Admission to 

  Practice in the Federal Courts ................................. 103 

Ad Hoc Committee on the Disposition of Court 

  Records ................................................... 105 

     Records of District Courts and Bankruptcy 

       Courts ................................................ 105 

     Preservation of Records Having Historical Value .............. 106 

     Other Records ............................................ 106 

Memorial Resolutions ......................................... 106 

     Honorable John Biggs, Jf. ................................ 106 

     Honorable William B. Jones ................................ 107 

Elections .................................................... 108 

Pretermission of Terms of the Courts of Appeals .................. 109 

Release of Conference Action ................................... 109 

          Report of the Proceedings 

                of the Judicial 

        Conference of the United States 


                       September 19-20, 1979

   The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on
September 19. 1979. pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice
of the United States. issued under 28 U.S.C. 331. and con­
tinued in session on September 20. The Chief Justice presided
and the following members of the Conference were present.
First Circuit:
     Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin
     Chief Judge Raymond J. Pettine, District of Rhode Island
Second Circuit:
    Chief Judge Irving R. Kaufman
    Chief Judge T. Emmet Clarie, District of Connecticut
Third Circuit:
    Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz
    Judge Alfred L. Luongo, Eastern District of Pennyslvania
Fourth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr.
    Judge Charles E. Simons, Jr., District of South Carolina·
Fifth Circuit:
     Chief Judge John R. Brown
     Chief Judge William C. Keady, Northern District of Mississippi
Sixth Circuit:
     Chief Judge George C. Edwards, Jr.
     Chief Judge Charles M. Allan, Western District of Kentucky
Seventh Circuit:
    Chief Judge Thomas E. Fairchild
    Judge S. Hugh Dillin, Southern District of Indiana

*Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr.,
who was unable to attend.

                                   53
                                  54



Eighth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Floyd R. Gibson
    Judge Albert G. Schatz, District of Nebraska
Ninth Circuit:
    Chief Judge James R. Browning
    Judge Morell E. Sharp, Western District of Washington
Tenth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Oliver Seth
    Chief Judge Howard C. Bratton, District of New Mexico
District oj Columbia Circuit:
     Chief Judge J. Skelly Wright 

     Chief Judge William B. Bryant, District of Columbia 

Court oj Claims:
   Chief Judge Daniel M. Friedman
Court oj Customs and Patent Appeals:
   Chief Judge Howard T. Markey

   Circuit Judges Walter J. Cummings, Edward A. Tamm,
Gerald B. Tjoflat and Harrison L. Winter; Senior District
Judges Dudley B. BonsaI, Charles M. Metzner, George L.
Hart, Jr., and Roszel C. Thomsen; and District Judges C.
Clyde Atkins, Edward J. Devitt, Alexander Harvey II, Elmo
B. Hunter, Robert E. Maxwell, and Edward Weinfeld attend­
ed all or some of the sessions of the Conference.
   The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable Ben­
jamin R. Civiletti, and the Solicitor General, Honorable
Wade H. McCree, addressed the Conference briefly on mat­
ters of mutual interest to the Department of Justice and the
Conference.                                                 •
   William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office/of
the United States Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
Director; James E. Macklin, Jr., Assistant Director; and
Mark W. Cannon, Administrative Assistant to the Chief
Justice, attended all sessions of the Conference. The Director
of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo Levin, reported on the
activities of the Center since the last session of the Con­
ference.
                                55

              REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR 

           OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

           OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 

   The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, Mr. William E. Foley, submitted to the Con­
ference the Annual Report of the Director for the year ended
June 30, 1979. The Conference authorized the Director to
release the annual report immediately in preliminary form and
to revise and supplement the final printed edition.

               JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

    Mr. Foley reported that appeals docketed in the United
.States courts of appeals in the year ending June 30, 1979,
 climbed almost 7 percent toa record 20,219 new appeals. Dur­
 ing the year the courts of appeals terminated a record 18,928
 appeals~ 1,291 fewer than the number filed, and the number
 of appeals pending on June 30, 1979 increased to a record
 17,939 cases. Appeals from decisions of administrative agen­
 cies increased almost 23 percent. The number of appeals from
 decisions of district courts in criminal cases declined almost 9
 percent during the year.
    Civil cases filed in the United States district courts in the
 year ending June 30, 1979, were 154,666, an increase of 11.5
 percent over the 138,770 civil cases filed during the previous
year. During the year there were. 143,323 civil cases ter­
minated, compared with 125,914 terminated during the
 previous year. On June 30, 1979, there were 177,805 civil ac­
tions pending on the dockets of the district courts, compared
with 166,462 pending a year earlier.
    Criminal cases filed in the United States district courts in
 1979 again declined to 32,688~ a decrease of 9.2 percent com­
pared with the 35,983 criminal cases filed during the previous
year. There were 33,411 criminal cases terminated. a 10.4 per­
cent decrease from the previous year, but 723 more than the
number filed. As a result the number of criminal cases pen­
ding on June 30, 1979 fell to a ten-year low of 15,124.
   Bankruptcy cases commenced in the United States district
courts during the year ending June 30, 1979, were 226,476,
an 11.6 percent increase over the number of bankruptcy
cases filed during the previous year. This increase reverses
                               56 


a three-year downward trend in the filing of bankruptcy cases.
During the year there were 209,316 bankruptcy cases closed,
an on June 30, 1979. there were 258,168 bankruptcy cases
pending on the dockets.

                REPORT OF THE FEDERAL
                   JUDICIAL CENTER
   The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Professor A.
Leo Levin, reported that during 1979 the Center has been
engaged in the task of providing orientation to new judges ap­
pointed under the 1978 Omnibus Judgeship Act and to sup­
porting personnel who have entered on duty in the judiciary as
a consequence of the increase in judgeship positions. The
Center is continuing its development of COURTRAN and has
made available to a number of district courts programs to
assist them in meeting the requirements of the Speedy Trial
Act of 1974. The Center has also been working on problems
of complex civil litigation, aspects of" the jury system and ser­
vices needed by probationers.

                 JUDICIAL PANEL ON
              MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION
   A report submitted on behalf of the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation indicated that during the year ending
June 30, 1979 the Panel had acted upon 1,064 civil actions
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407 and that 936 civil actions were
centralized for coordinated pretrial proceedings. The Panel
denied transfer of 128 actions. Since the creation of the Panel
in 1968 over 7,700 civil actions have been centralized in
pretrial proceedings in carrying out the Panel's respon­
sibilities. As of June 30, 1979, almost 5,000 of those actions
had been remanded for trial or terminated by settlement, or
dismissal in the transferee courts.                          .

     COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
  Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee
on Court Administration, presented the Committee re­
port.
                                    57

                            JUDICIAL TENURE


        The Conference in March 1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 4) after
     reviewing a draft of proposed amendments to 28 U.S.C. 332
     to clarify the powers of the judicial councils of the circuits to
     adopt procedures for the examination of judicial conduct in
     cases where it is warranted and to take appropriate action in
     such instances, adopted a resolution setting forth the prin­
     ciples to be embodied in any proposed amendment to the
     statute. The Chairman of the Committee on Court Ad­
     ministration and the members of the Executive Committee
     were directed to revise the proposal in accordance with the
     principles stated in the resolution and to submit a revised
'-   draft for Conference approval.                         '
        Judge Hunter informed the Conference that a new draft bill
     to amend 28 U.S.C. 372 rather than 28 U.S.C. 332 had been
     prepared artd approved by the Executive Committee. After
     full discussion, the Conference, consistent with its. previous
     resolution, voted to recommend that, if legislative action is to
     be taken, the proposed amendment to 28 U.S.C. 372, set out
     in the draft bill submitted by the Committee, be enacted into
     law.


                     TRIAL OF PROTRACTED CASES


        Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the Committee
     had considered a suggestion for the creation of a special panel
     of judges to be available to undertake the trial of protracted
     cases on special assignment. Judge Hunter pointed out that in
     a small district the assignment of a local judge to a lengthy
     trial can completely disrupt the entire calender of the court.
        The Committee recommended that the Chief Justice be re­
     quested to designate such a panel, to include highly experi.
     enced senior judges. The chief judge of a district court would
     request the chief judge of the circuit to arrange the assignment
     of one of the panel judges if an intercircuit assignment were
     involved. This recommendation was approved by the Con­
     ference.
                                    58
               EQUAL EEMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

   On June 5, 1979, a "Petition Seeking the Adoption of
Equal Employment Opportunity Plans by the Federal
Judiciary" was filed with the Judicial Conference on behalf
of twelve organizations representing minorities. The petition,
based upon a survey by the Southern Regional Council, states
that. "equal employment opportunity has been and continues
to be denied to both women and blacks by federal courts in
the South. There is every reason to believe that those
discriminatory patterns exist in federal courts in other areas of
our nation." Without conceding that there has been dis­
crimination, the Committee unanimously recommended t and
the Conference adopted, the following resolution:

       The Judicial Conference of the United States reaffirms its
     resolution of 1966, endorsing a national policy of a positive
     program for equal opportunity of employment. In furtherance
    of that endorsement, the Committee on Court Administration,
    with the assistance of the Adminsitrative Office, is directed to
    prepare a model affirmative action plan, for adoption by each
    federal court, with regard to the selection and promotion of
    employees, and is further directed to present that model plan to
    the Conference for approval at the March 1980 session. Upon
    such approval, each federal court shall adopt and implement a
    plan based thereon. Any modification of the model plan by a
    court must first be approved in its circuit by the Circuit Council
    thereof. A copy of each plan and any subsequent modifications
    shall be filed with the Administrative Office. Each court shall
    annually submit a report on the implementation of its affir­
    mative action plan to the Administrative Office for inclusion in
    the Director's Annual Report to the Judicial Conference.



               RENTAL OF SPACE AND FACILITIES

   The annual Appropriation Act for the Federal Judiciary
contains an item for "Space and Facilities" which is availaqle
for the rental of space required for the operation of the
courts. Appropriated funds are paid over to the Administra­
tor of General Services for the space occupied by the Judicial
Branch and these funds are, in turn, deposited by the Admin­
istrator into the Federal Buildings Fund. The Fund is used to
                               59 


 cover the expenses of operating federally-owned buildings and
 the cost of renting space in privately-owned buildings.
    The Fund, however, is not a revolving account. Congress
 must appropriate the money to be spent from the Fund and
 usually imposes limits on the amount the Administrator can
 obligate and disburse for the rental of space. The Office of
 Management and Budget apportions the limitation of expen­
 ditures among all government agencies on a quarterly basis.
 Even though there is adequate funding to pay for all space re­
 quired by the Federal Judiciary, the Administrator of General
Services may be unable to provide space because of a
 "freeze" on the availability of funds to rent space in
 privately-owned buildings.
   Judge Hunter informed the Conference that in an attempt
to obtain relief from any limitation imposed on the Judiciary
by the Executive Branch of the Government, the Director of
the Administrative Office of the United States Courts had re­
quested the Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcom­
mittee for the Treasury, Postal Service and General Govern­
ment to include a statement in the 1980 appropriations bill
that the Judicial Branch shall be provided space and facilities
to the extent of funds appropriated for that purpose in
Judiciary Appropriation Acts. Upon recommendation of the
Committee, the Conference endorsed the action taken by the
Director and authorized him to continue to seek this legisla­
tion.

                      SPACE UTILIZATION

   Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the House Ap­
propriations Subcommittee for the Treasury, Postal Service
and General Government had expressed concern over the
utilization of space by the Judiciary and that the House Sub­
committee on Appropriations for the Judiciary had also
stated its belief that bankruptcy judges and magistrates do not
require facilities comparable to those being provided to circuit
and district judges. In this regard the Committee had reviewed
space guidelines for bankruptcy judges and magistrates
prepared by the Administrative Office in coordination with
the General Services Administration and the Director's Ad­
visory Committee of Bankruptcy Judges. Although the guide­
                               60 


lines called for less space for both bankruptcy judges and
magistrates than for circuit and district judges, it was the view
of the Committee that experience under the new Bankruptcy
Code and the new Magistrates Act may require changes in the
guidelines. Upon recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved the guidelines as interim guidelines,
subject to later evaluation.

                   ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS

  The Omnibus Judgeship Act of 1978, P.L. 95-486, created
only two of the three additional judgeships recommended by
the Judicial Conference for the United States Court of Ap­
peals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Since the recom­
mendation for three additional judgeships was originally
made, the caseload of the court has increased and has grown
more complex. The Conference thereupon recommended the
creation of one additional judgeship for the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.

          NATIONAL BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS

   H.R. 2061 and H.R. 2108, 96th Congress, are bills to
establish a National Bureau of Justice Statistics. It was the
view of the Committee that the statistical programs operated
by the Administrative Office adequately serve the needs of the
Federal Judiciary and that the Administratfve Office is the ap­
propriate agency to collect information on the operation of
the courts. Statistical information compiled in the Ad­
ministrative Office is readily available to the Department of
Justice, to the Congress and to any Government agency. The
Committee therefore recommended disapproval of any
legislation which would duplicate in another governmental
unit the statistical authority now assigned to the Administra­
tive Office under Title 28, United States Code. The Commit­
tee further recommended that in the event a Bureau of Justice
Statistics is established, the Bureau's board include a member
of the Judicial Branch of the Government, either a Federal
judge or a representative of the Administrative Office. These
recommendations were approved by the Conference.
                               61
                FEDERAL COURTS IMPROVEMENT 

                        ACT OF 1979 


    S. 1477, 96th Congress, is a bill to provide for im·
  provements in the structure and administration of the Federal
  courts and for other purposes. It has been favorably reported
  by the Senate Judiciary Committee. Judge Hunter informed
  the Conference that the bill contains several titles and sub­
  parts which the Committee had separately considered.
  A. Selection and Tenure of ChiefJudges: Part A of Title I of
 S. 1477 would provide that the judge who is senior in commis­
 sion, age 64 or under, and who has served one year or more on
  the court shall be the chief judge. A chief judge would serve
  for a term of seven years or until attaining 70 years of age.
 The Committee recommended and the Conference approved
 these provisions of the bill.
 B. Appellate Panels: Part B of Title I of S. 1477 would
 amend Sections 4S(b) and 46(b) and (c) of Title 28, United
 States Code. The amendment to Section 4S(b) would give ac­
 tive judges precedence over senior circuit judges. The amend­
 ment to Section 46(b) would require at least three judges on an
 appellate panel, two of whom must be judges of the court,
 unless such judges are disqualified. The amendment does not
 distinguish between active and senior judges of the court. The
 amendment to Section 46(c) also requires a panel of at least
 three judges.
    The Committee perceived a potential problem arising in the
 event of illness, death, or vacancy, or in a situation in which
 the caseload is so heavy as to prevent active circuit judges
 from handling appeals in timely fashion. This is especially
 pertinent in a court of appeals with a small number of judges,
such as the First Circuit, which may not be able to sit because
of the availability of only one active circuit judge. Otherwise,
the Committee saw no objection to these proposals and they
were approved by the Conference.
C. Membership of Judicial Councils: Part C of Title I of
S.1477 would restructure the judicial councils of the circuits
and provide for district judge membership. The circuit council
would consist of the chief judge of the circuit, a number of
circuit judges to be fixed by majority vote of all active circuit
judges of the circuit, and a number of district judges also to
be fixed by majority vote of all active circuit judges. Terms of
                                62 

 members of the council would be established by majority vote
 of all active judges of the circuit. The circuit council would be
 authorized to conduct hearings, take sworn testimony and
 issue subpoenas. Upon recommendation of the Committee,
 the provisions of Part C of Title I were approved by the Con­
 ference.
 D. Retirement and Resignation: Part D of Title I of S. 1477
 would amend 28 U.S.C. 371 to permit a judge who resigns his
 office at age 65 with 15 years of service to continue to receive
 an annuity equal to the salary which he was receiving when he
 resigned. This provision of the bill was approved by the Con­
 ference. The Conference also reaffirmed its approval of a pro­
 posal to permit a judge to retain his office but retire from
 regular active service whenever the combination of his age and
 years of service as a judge equal eighty.
 E. Assignments oj Judges to Managerial Positions: Part E of
 title I of S. 1477 would authorize the temporary assignment of
 an Article III judge to a limited number of managerial posi­
 tions in the Judicial Branch of the Government. Upon recom­
 mendation of the Committee this provision was approved by
 the Conference.
F. Interlocutory Appeals: Part A of Title II of S. 1477 would
 amend 28 U.S.C. 1292(b) to permit an appeal from a decision
of a district court, not otherwise appealable, "if the court of
appeals determines in its discretion that an appeal is required
in the interests of justice and because of the extraordinary im­
portance of the case." In these circumstnces the certificate of
a district judge would not be required.
    It was the view of the Committee that this provision was
quite unnecessary. The Committee knew of no case in which
the interests of justice were irreparably damaged because a
district court has refused to certify an interlocutory order Qr
appeal. To add this language to the statute would encourage
lawyers to seek leave from the court of appeals for review Qf
interlocutory orders when the district court has refused a Sec:­
tion 1292(b) certificate. This proposal was disapproved by the
Conference.
G. Transjer to Cure Want oj Jurisdiction:Part B of Title II
of S. 1477 would add a new Section 1631 to Title 28, United
States Code, to authorize the transfer of an improperly filed
case from one court to another. A similar proposal had pre­
                               63 

 viously been approved by the Conference (Conf. Rept., Mar.
  1978, p. 11). Upon recommendation of the Committee, the
 Conference reaffirmed its approval of this proposal.
 H. Interest on Judgements and Prejudgement Interest: Part
 C of Title II of S. 1477 would amend 28 U.S.C. 1961 with
 respect to interest on civil money judgements. First, the in­
 terest rate would be "the rate established pursuant to Section
 6621 of the Internal Revenue Code" rather than the "rate
 allowed by State law." Secondly, the court would be autho­
 rized to award interest measured "from the time that the par­
 ty against whom damages have been awarded became aware
 of his potential liability or from the time that he should have
 become aware of such liability, but, in any case, not to exceed
 a period of five years." The Conference approved these provi­
sions of the bill, except the provision that would link the in­
terest rate to Section 6621 of the Internal Revenue Code. The
Committee was directed to consider other possible methods of
fixing interest rates and to report theron to the Conference.
I. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and the 'United
States Claims Court: Title III of S. 1477 would merge the
United States Court of Claims and the United States Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals into a new court to be named the
"United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit."
Jurisdiction of the new court would be substantially the same
as that of the two courts to be merged, except that the new
court would not have any jurisdiction in tax cases. In addi­
tion, the new court would have jurisdiction of all appeals
from decisions of district courts in patent cases, jurisdiction
to review decisions of the district courts under the Tucker Act
(except tax' cases), and jurisdiction of any appeal from a final
order or decision of the Merit Systems Protection Board and
of agency boards of contract appeals.
   The trial division of the existing United States Court of
Claims would be converted into a new Article I court to be
named the "United States Claims Court." This new court
would have the same jurisdiction as the existing Court of
Claims, except that it would no longer have jurisdiction of
civil tax refund or Federal Tort Claims Act cases. The new
United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit would
have appellate jurisdiction over decisions of the United States
Claims Court.
                                64 

     Judge Hunter reported that the Committee favorbly views
 certain aspects of the proposal including the centralization of
 appellate jurisdiction over patent cases and Tucker Act cases
 in one court. The Committee, however. expressed no view on
 the appellate court structure.
    Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
 approved the general purposes of the proposals contained in
 Title III of S. 1477, but expressed no view on court structure.
 J. United States Court of Tax Appeals: Title IV of S. 1477
 would create a new "United States court of Tax Appeals"
 having jurisdiction over appeals from the United States Tax
 Court and the United States district courts. The new court
 would consist of eleven judges designated by the Chief Justice
 from the existing United States courts of appeals. Initially, the
 judges so designated would serve staggered terms up to three
 years and vacancies would be filled by the designation of addi­
 tional judges for terms of three years. Terms or sessions of the
court would be held at least once per year in each circuit and
at such other times and places as the court may direct. The
court would sit in panels of three judges, or might sit in panels
of more then three judges. Its decisions would be reviewable
by the Supreme Court on writ of certiorari.
    Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the Committee
believes that the concept of a separate court of tax appeals is
sound, but questions whether the assignment of judges from
the courts of appeals to serve on the court is practical. The
Committee believes that consideration should be given to a
separate court having an appropriate number of full-time
judges. Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Con­
ference aproved in principle the creation of a separate court of
tax appeals, but voted to advise the Congress of its view that
the regular mandatory assignment of circuit or district judges
as members of the court is impracticaL

                  AIR DISASTER LITIGATION

  H.R. 231, 96th Congress, is a bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to establish a federal cause of action for and
federal court procedures with respect to aviation activities and
for other purposes. The Judicial Conference in March 1979
(Conf. Rept., p. 13) endorsed the two principal objectives of a
                                65 

 similar bill, H. R. 10917, 95th Congress, and authorized the
 Committee to communciate its views regarding particular pro­
 vsions of the bill to the appropriate committees of the Con­
 gress and to work with Congressional committees on the bill.
    Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the Con­
 ference reaffirmed its previous action with respect to those
 proposals now contained in H. R. 231, 96th Congress.

                        A TrORNEYS' FEES

     S. 265, 96th Congress, entitled the "Equal Access to Justice
  Act," would provide for an award of attorneys' fees to
  prevailing parties in proceedings before administrative agen­
  cies that are subject to section 554 of Title 5, United States
  Code, and would provide for an award of costs and attorneys'
  fees to the' 'prevailing party in any civil action brought by or
 against the United States" in any court having jurisdiction of
 such action. In awarding attorneys' fees and other expenses to
 a "prevailing party in any action for judicial review of any
 agency adjudication ... the court shall include in that award
 the fees and other expenses for services performed during the
 agency adjudication unless the court finds that during such
 adjudication the position of the. United States was sub­
 stantially justified, or that special circumstances made an
 award unjust." The bill would also require the Director of the
 Administrative Office of the United States Courts to include
 in his annual report "the amount of fees and other expenses
awarded during the preceding fiscal year" and "describe the
 number, nature, and amount of awards, the claims involved
in the controversy and any other relevant information which
 may aid the Congress in evaluating the scope and impact of
such awards."
    In March 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 8) the Conference con­
sidered similar bills which would provide for an award of
reasonable attorneys' fees. At that time the Committee
reported that it continued to be of the view that the question
of awarding attorneys' fees in agency and court proceedings is
a matter of public policy for the determination of the Con­
gress, but pointed out that a piecemeal approach to this issue
is eroding the "prevailing American Rule" requiring parties
in civil litigation to pay their own attorneys' fees, without
                                     70 

 considered an identical bill, H. R. 9913, 95th Congress, and
 took the following action:
        While the bill embodies a matter of policy for Congressional
     determination, the Committee doubted that Section 2 of Arti­
     cle III of the Constitution supports this type of grant of
     jurisdiction to a federal court. Further, the bill is unclear on
     questions of venue, what law is to be applied, and the nature of
     relief that may be granted. The Conference took no position on
     the merits of the bjIl, but authorized the communication of the
     Committee's reservations to the Congress.
  Upon recommendation of the Committee., the Conference
reaffirmed its previous action with respect to the proposals
contained in these bills.

                           STANDING TO SUE

   S. 680 and H. R. 1047, 96th Congress, would alter certain
recent decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States
relating to standing to sue. The bills provide, in general, that
in actions against the United States or any state or local
government, its agencies or its officials, alleging violations of
the Federal Constitution or Federal law, standing to sue shall
not be denied on any of four grounds:
     1. 	 That the suit raises a generalized grievance shared by all or
          a large class of persons;
     2. 	 That causation is not shown since the defendant's conduct
          may not be the primary cause of the plaintiff's injury;
     3. 	 That the remedy would be ineffective because a judgment
          for the plaintiff is unlikely to cure the plaintiff's injury;
          and
     4. 	 That the alleged injury is not within the zone of interest to
          be protected or regulated by the applicable statutes or con­
          stitutional provision.
   The bill would not affect the lack of standing of persons to
sue as taxpayers nor the lack of standing of persons to
challenge agency action which affects the liability or status of
another person under the revenue laws.
   Judge Hunter stated that the doctrine of standing under
Supreme Court decisions "has become a blend ofconstitu­
tional requirements and policy considerations." The constitu­
tional requirements arise out of the Article III mandate that
the federal courts decide only cases and controversies. Some
of the rules of standing, usually termed the "prudential"
                                    71 

 limitations, are not constitutionally based. "Congress can, of
 course, resolve the question, one way or the other, save as the
requirements of Article III dictate otherwise. " The matter is
complicated because a prudential limitation is not "always
clearly distinguished from the constitutional limitation."
   It appears that the sponsors of the bill believe that it would
affect only "prudential limitations" on standing and that
Congress is free to make changes in these rules and that the
only constitutional requirement' is "a personal stake in the
outcome." In the recent case of Duke Power Company v.
Carolina Environmental Study Group, Inc., 98 S. Ct. 2620,
2630-2631 (1978), the Supreme Court said that the constitu­
tional requirement of a "personal stake" means not only "a
distinct and palpable injury to the plaintiff," but also "a
'fairly traceable' causal connection between the claimed in­
jury and the challenged conduct," and that the causal con­
nection element can be put otherwise as meaning "that the ex­
ercise of the Court's remedial powers would redress the claim­
ed injuries."
   Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the Committee
believes the bill will have to be amended in the light of the
Duke Power case and two other recent Supreme Court cases:
Orr v. Orr, 99 S. Ct. 1102, 1107-1108 (1979); and Gladstone
Realtors v. Vii/age of Bellwood, 47 L. Wk. 4377 (April 17,
1979).
   Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
voted to inform the Congress that it:
    1. 	 Opposes enactment of S. 680 in its present form;
    2. 	 Notes that there are questions as to the constitutionality of
         several provisions;
    3. 	 In any event, recommends that the bill be reconsidered in
         light of recent Supreme Court decisions; .
    4. 	 Believes that prudential standing rules should not be
         treated in an "omnibus" approach such as S. 680, but in­
         dividual problems should be resolved by amendments to
         individual statutes or by incorporating standing provisions
         in the enactment of new substantive statutes; and
    5. 	 Believes that complete elimination of prudential rules
         could require courts to decide questions which could be
         more appropriately decided in a constitutional democracy
         by the national legislature.
                              72
        DECLARATORY JUDGMENT IN CASES INVOLVING 

                   PUBLIC UTILITIES 


    H. R. 229, 96th Congress, would amend the Judicial Code
 to permit any Federal court to issue a declaratory judgment in
 a case of actual controversy between a utility and either the
 Secretary of the Treasury or a rate-making body with respect
 to certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
 The purpose of the legislation is to provide more timely
 judicial resolution of tax issues. Under present law, United
 States district courts do not have jurisdiction to issue
 declaratory judgments with respect to tax disputes.
   As now drafted, the bill would permit regulatory agencies
to place new utility rates into effect without waiting for the
court to issue a declaratory judgment. The issuance of a stay
by a Federal court pending conclusion of a declaratory judg­
ment action would result in a violation of the established
policy against federal interference in state proceedings, as
contained in the Johnson Act, 28 U.S.C. 1342.
   Judge Hunter reported that the Committee is opposed as a
matter of principle to any unwarranted extension of federal
jurisdiction over matters which traditionally have been left to
the states and does not believe that the policy against federal
intervention in local rate cases, as expressed in the Johnson
Act, should be changed. Upon recommendation of the Com­
mittee, the Conference approved the transmission of the
Committee's conclusions to the Chairman. of the House
Judiciary Committee who had requested the views of the Con­
ference on this bill.

             JUDICIAL SURVIVORS ANNUITY ACT

   H. R. 2974, 96th Congress, would amend the Judicial Sur­
vivors Annuity Act to provide that an annuity under the A.ct
would not terminate by remarriage of an annuitant after at­
taining age sixty. The Committee, upon recommendation of
the Conference, approved the bill.
   The Conference further authorized the appointment of an
ad hoc committee to give consideration to the adequacy of an­
nuities payable to the survivors of judges who have served on
the bench for a comparatively short perjod of time.
                                73
              RETIREMENT OF TERRITORIAL JUDGES

  H. R. 3452, 96th Congress would amend 28 U.S.C. 373 to
provide a minimum level for retirement salaries of territorial
judges. Similar legislation has been disapproved by the
Judicial Conference in the past on the basis that the matter
should more properly be the subject of a private relief bill.
The Conference reaffirmed its disapproval of this legislation.

           TENURE OF CHIEF JUDGES OF CIRCUIT AND 

                      DISTRICT COURTS 


   S. 862, 96th Congress, would permit the chief judges of cir­
cuit and district courts to serve beyond 70 years of age. Since
the bill is inconsistent with the recommendation of the Con­
ference with regard to Part A of Title I of S. 1477, 96th Con­
gress, as shown above, the Conference disapproved the bill.

            DELAY OF PROCEEDINGS BY A TIORNEYS

   H. R. 4047, 96th Congress, would require any attorney ad­
mitted to pra~tice in the Federal Courts personally to satisfy
the costs, expenses, and attorneys' fees related to any case .un­
necessarily or primarily delayed by that attorney's personal
conduct. It was the view of the Committee that a judge
already has sufficient power to control attorneys in situations
such as this and that no additional sanctions are needed.
Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Conference dis­
approved this legislation.

    COST-OF.LIVING ALLOWANCES FOR JUDICIAL OFFICERS
    AND EMPLOYEES SERVING OUTSIDE THE CONTINENTAL
               UNITED STATES OR IN ALASKA

   At its March 1979 session (Conf. Rept., p. 12) the Con­
ference recommended that, as a matter of equity, officers and
employees in the Judicial Branch of Government should
receive the same cost-of-living allowances provided in the Ex­
ecutive Branch to officers and employees serving outside the
continental United States or in Alaska. Upon recommenda­
tion of the Committee, the Conference reaffirmed its resolu­
tion of March 1979.
                                     76 

 by circuit and district judges in addition to determining the
 classification and qualification standards to be applied under
 the Judiciary Salary Plan.                            '
   Subsequently, the Committee on -Appropriations of the
 House of Representatives, in commenting on the proposal,
stated that "while the Committee feels that the ceilings would
 be more appropriately imposed by the Judicial Conference, it
is reluctant to delete the language without a specific plan for
imposing limits on these items. The matter will be recon­
sidered by the Committee upon submission of a plan and
specific rules or regulations to be adopted by the Judicial
Conference of the United States which should govern the
number of secretaries and law clerks to be appointed by
district judges, as well as the rates of compensation to be
paid. "
   Judge Hunter reported that the Committee had developed
the following plan which, upon recommendation of the Com­
mittee, was approved by the Conference.
            Guidelines for the Employment of Secretaries 

          and Law Clerks by Circuit Judges, District Judges, 

                       and Bankruptcy Judges 

    1. 	 A district judge may employ a secretary and two law
         clerks, or a secretary. a law clerk and a crier, subject to the
         JSP grade levels and qualification standards adopted by
         the Judicial Conference.
    2. 	 A circuit judge may employ a secretary, an assistant
         secretary, and three law clerks, subject to the JSP grade
         levels and qualification standards adopted by the Judicial
         Conference.
    3. 	 The chief judge of each circuit and the chief judge of each
         district court having five or more district judges may
         employ an additional secretary or law clerk subject to the
         JSP grade level and qualification standards adopted by the
         Judicial Conference.                                              . I

    4. 	 A bankruptcy judge may employe a secretary and a law
                                                                           ~'
         clerk subject to the JSP grade levels and qualification stan-
         dards adopted by the Judicial Conference.
    S. 	 With the provisio that no incumbent will be separated or
         reduced in grade, the maximum grade levels authorized by
         the Judicial Conference for law clerks, secretaries and
         criers are as follows:
                                     77 

                        Law Clerk, JSP-12'"
                        Secretary, JSP-lO**
                        Assistant Secretary, JSP-9
                        Crier, JSP-6
      '" A law clerk who has served a Federal judge for five years
          or more will be eligible for JSP-13.
     ** A secretary who has served a Federal judge for eight years
          or more, seven years at the JSP-IO level. will be eligible for
          grade JSP-ll.
     6. 	 The Director of the Administrative Office may approve
          overlapping appointments of secretaries and law clerks of
          up to 30 days where the turnover of personnel would
          hinder the continuity of staff support for the judge.


               COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
  The report of the Committee on the Budget was submitted
by the Chairman of the Committee, Chief Judge Robert E.
Maxwell.

            ApPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 1980
   Judge Maxwell reported that the budget estimates submit­
ted to the Congress for the fiscal year 1980 (exclusive of the
Supreme Court) were initially in the amount of $606,354,000.
The budget· was subsequently amended to include an addi­
tional $1,008,000 for additional full-time magistrates and
staff authorized by the Conference in March 1979. The sum
of $578,899,000 was approved by Congress (P .L.
96-68-Sept. 24, 1979), which was $28,463,000 less than the
amount requested, but an increase of $75,719,000 over ap­
propriations for the fiscal year 1979.
   With respect to the bankruptcy courts, the House Appro­
priations Committee approved $57,000,000, an increase of
$20,342,000 over the amount appropriated for 1979 but
$10,818,000 less than the amount requested. Subsequently,
the Senate Appropriations Committee restored $3,000,000. In
a conference between the House and the Senate the increase
was reduced to $1,500,000, for a total appropriation of
$58,500,000.
   The Appropriations Committees reduced the "Space and
Facilities" appropriation by $7,000,000 with the under­
                                     80
   ADVISORY PANEL ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

       REPORTS AND JUDICIAL ACTIVITIES 

   Judge Markey informed the Conference that the Advisory
Panel was-organized in April 1979. In June 1979, pursuant to
a mail vote of the Conference, the Panel was assigned the
responsibility of rendering advisory opinions on the various
codes of conduct, a function previously performed by the
predecessor Committee on Judicial Activities. At its initial
meeting the Panel adopted the following methods for con­
sidering inquiries pertaining to financial disclosure reports:
     (a) The Panel 	will consider only written financial disclosure
           inquiries and will tender its advice only in writing. The
           Chairman is authorized informal discussions with callers
           concerning potential inquiries.
     (b) Disclosure inquiries are numbered (Inquiry No. 79-1, 79-2,
           etc.).
     (c) 	 To speed its work, the Panel divided irito Division A and
           Division B, each now composed of 6 judges. The Chair­
           man is not assigned to a division.
     (d) 	 On receipt of a disclosure inquiry, the Chairman assigns its
           number, prepares a proposed response, and forwards the
           inquiry and proposed response to all judges of a division.
           Odd-numbered inquiries are sent to Division A, even-num­
           bered to Division B.
    (e) 	 Division members communicate their views to the Chair­
           man. If there be differences, a conference call is arranged
          by the Chairman.
    (f) 	 If the division is unanimous, its advice is forwarded to the
          inquirer by the Chairman without comment.
    (g) 	 If a division be divided, the inquiry file is sent to the other
          division. The advice approved by the majority of the Panel
          is forwarded to the inquirer. If the Panel divides evenly,
          then and only then does the Chairman vote.
   The Panel has modified its procedure to the extent of using",
docket numbers in place of inquiry numbers and is considerr
ing a new procedure for handling inquiries pertaining to the
various codes of conduct.
   As of the date of its report. the Panel had considered and
responded to inquiries concerning financial disclosure reports
submitted by 33 persons and had 5 inquiries under consider·
ation. The Panel has also considered and responded to
                              81 


 inquiries pertaining to the codes of conduct from 5 persons
 and had inquiries from 7 persons under consideration.

     CODES OF CONDUCT FOR STAFF ATTORNEYS, CIRCUIT 

            EXECUTIVES AND PUBLIC DEFENDERS 


   The Panel submitted for Conference consideration propos­
ed Codes 01 Conduct for Staff Attorneys, Circuit Executives
and Public Defenders. All three codes prohibit the private
practice of law, with the exception that a staff attorney would
be permitted, within limitations, to perform "routine legal
work necessary to the management of the personal affairs of
the staff attorney or a member of his family."
   It was the view of the Conference that the provisions of the
Code with respect to the practice of law should be consistent
and that the exception provided in the code of conduct for
staff attorneys should also be included in the codes of conduct
for circuit executives and public defenders. With these amend­
ments the codes were approved by the Conference.
   The Conference also directed the Panel to review the pro­
visions pertaining to the practice of law in the codes of con­
duct for clerks of court, probation officers, and officers and
employees in the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts and the Federal Judicial Center and to report any
changes necessary in these codes.

  COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
       FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM
  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Federal Magistrates System was presented by the Chairman,
Senior Judge Charles M. Metzner.

  QUALIFICATION STANDARDS AND SELECTION PROCEDURES

  Judge Metzner reported that the amendments to the Federal
Magistrates act contained in S. 237, 96th Congress, would re­
quire the Conference at its first meeting following enactment
of the legislation to issue binding regulations governing the
appointment and reappointment of United States magistrates
by the district courts. Anticipating passage of the Act before
the current session of the Conference, the Committee had
prepared draft regulations setting forth standards and pro­
cedures for the appointment of magistrates. Since legislative
action on the bill had not been completed, Judge Metzner
stated that the Committee would give further consideration to
these regulations and report to the Conference thereon at its
next session.


            SALARIES OF FULL-TIME MAGISTRATES

   The salary schedule for full-time magistrates, approved by
the Conference in September 1977 (Conf. Rept., p. 63) pro­
vided a two-tier salary structure. With the approval of the ap­
pointing court a full-time magistrate admitted to the bar for
10 years or more may be paid a salary of $48,500 per annum,
except the full-time magistrate at Yosemite National Park.
Other full-time magistrates are paid salaries of $42,500 per
annum. After review of the current salary plan and in view of
the qualification standards and selection procedures required
by the currently pending amendments to the Federal Magis­
trates Act, the Committee recommended that there be a single
salary level of $48,500 per annum for full-time magistrates
who have been members of the bar of the highest court of a
state for a period of five years or more, except the full-time
magistrate at Yosemite National Park. This recommendation
was approved by the Conference.


            SALARIES OF PART-TIME MAGISTRATES

   The Conference had previously established a system of 15
salary levels for part-time magistrates. The part-time magis­
trates, however, do not automatically receive comparability
pay adjustments applicable to federal employees generally.
   Judge Metzner informed the Conference that the Comm.it:
tee had reviewed the current salary levels, which have not been
changed since May 1977, and concluded that the schedule',
should be adjusted to grant salary increases of approximately
7 percent to all part-time magistrates. Upon recommendation
of the Committee the Conference adopted the following
salary levels for part-time magistrates effective October 1,
1979, subject to the availability of funds:
                                              83

        LeveI15 .......... $24,250*                 Level 7 ... " ....... $8,200
        Level 14 . . . . . . . . .. 23,100          Level 6 . . . . . . . . . . .. 6,400
        Level 13 . . . . . . . . .. 20,300          Level 5 . . . . . . . . . . .. 4,500
        Level 12 . . . . . . . . .. 17,900          Level 4 . . . . . . . . . . .. 3,600

        Leveill.. ..... ...        15,500          Level 3 . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,700
        Level 10.. ........        13,600          Level 2. . . . . . . . . . .. 1,800
        Level 9..........          II ,800         Levell............               900
        Level 8..........          10,000
                    CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

   After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Of­
fice, the district courts and the judicial councils of the circuits,
the Conference approved the following changes in salaries
and arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrates.
Unless otherwise indicated these changes are to become effec­
tive when appropriated funds are available. The salaries for
full-time magistrates are to be determined in accordance with
the salary plan previously adopted by the Conference.

                     DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
District oj Columbia
       (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Washington,
            D.C., which is due to expire on June 21, 1980, for an additional
            eight-year term.

                                 FOURTH CIRCUIT
North Carolina, Western
       (I) 	Continued the deputy clerk-magistrate position at Charlotte fgr
             an additional four-year term.
       (2) 	 Increased the salary of the magistrate portion of the deputy
             clerk-magistrate combination position at Charlotte from
             $12,240 to $13,600 per annum in order to fit the salary of the
             position into one of the standard salary levels for part-time
             magistrates.
South Carolina
       (1) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at Columbia at a
            salary of $11,800 per annum.
"'The maximum salary to be paid a part-time magistrate is one half of the $48,500 salary of a
full-time magistrate.
                                     84 

 Virginia, Eastern
      (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Alexandria,
          which is due to expire on December 31, 1979, for an additional
          eight-year term.

                             FIFTH CIRCUIT

Florida, Northern
      (l) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
          Tallahassee from $5,950 to $17,900 per annum.
Florida, Middle
      (1) 	 Authorized a second full-time magistrate position to be located
          at Jacksonville.
Georgia, Southern
      (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Savannah to full­
          time status.
Texas, Western
      (1) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at Marfa and
            Kerrville.
      (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
            Pecos from $16,750 to $24,250 per annum.
      (3) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
            Midland/Odessa from $3,400 to $6,400 per annum.
      (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at EI Paso for an
            additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
            $24,250.

                             SIXTH CIRCUIT

Michigan, Western
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Marquette for an
          additional four-year term at a salary of $900 per annum.             '

                          SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Illinois, Northern
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Rockfordl
         Freeport for an additional four-year term at a salary of $24,250
         per annum.
                                     85 


Illinois, Southern
     (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Belleville to full­
          time status at East Saint Louis.

Indiana, Southern
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Evansville for an
           additional four-year term.
     (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Evansville from $2,550 to $4,500 per annum.


                            EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Iowa; Northern
     (1) 	 Converted the deputy clerk-magistrate position at Cedar Rapids
          to full-time status.
     (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at Waterloo and
           Fort Dodge, effective upon the appointment of a full-time
           magistrate at Cedar Rapids.
     (3) 	 Redesignated the deputy clerk-magistrate position at Cedar
           Rapids as a "deputy clerk-magistrate or clerk-magistrate" posi­
           tion until the appointment of a full-time magistrate at Cedar
           Rapids.

Iowa, Southern·
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Burlington for an
          additional four-year term at a salary of $2,700 per annum.
     (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Davenport at
          the expiration of the current term.


                            NINTH CIRCUIT
Montana
    (1) 	 Increased the salaries of the part-time magistrate positions at
          Billings and Great Falls from $2,550 to $15,500 per annum
          each.
    (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Hardin.

Nevada
    (1) 	 Continued tpe part-time magistrate position at Reno for an
          additional four-year term at a salary of $24,250 per annum.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Elko for an addi­
          tional four-year term at a salary of $900 per annum.
                                    86
 Oregon

     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Pendleton for
           an additional four-year term at a salary of $900 per annum.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Coquille for an
           additional four-year term at a salary of $900 per annum.



                           TENTH CIRCUIT

Oklahoma, Eastern

     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Muskogee ~or an
           additional four-year term at a salary of $20,300 per annum.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at McAlester for an
           additional four-year term at a salary of $1,800 per annum.
     (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Sulphur for an
           additional four-year term at a salary of $3,600 per annum.


Colorado

     (1) Authorized a third full-time magistrate position at Denver.

   The Conference also ratified the action taken by the Ex­
ecutive Committee of the Conference to continue the part­
time magistrate position at Albany in the Middle District of
Georgia, which would have expired on June 30, 1979, at a
salary of $4,250 per annum. The position was continued for a
new four-year term and the salary will be $4,500 per annum
under the new salary structure.


     LEGAL MANUAL FOR UNITED STATES MAGISTRATES

   Judge Metzner informed the Conference that a new Legal
Manual/or United States Magistrates had been published and',
distributed to all magistrates and district judges. The manual"
prepared in the Magistrates Division of the Administrative
Office, was reviewed prior to publication by experienced
magistrates and by members of the Committee. It currently
includes six chapters covering the jurisdiction of magistrates
and the conduct of preliminary proceedings in criminal cases.
                                     87 


 Additional chapters are being prepared so that the manual,
 when completed, will cover the full range of duties performed
 by United States magistrates for the district courts.

                STUDY OF THE MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

  Judge Metzner also informed the Conference that the pend­
ing amendments to the Federal Magistrates Act would require
the Judicial Conference to undertake a two-year study
"concerning the future of. the magistrate system, the precise
scope of such study to be suggested by the Chairmen of the
Judiciary Committees of each House of Congress." The
Committee is planning to undertake such a study.

   COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
            BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM
  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Bankruptcy System was presented by the Chairman, Judge
Edward Weinfeld.

   SALARIES AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

   The Conference considered the Committee's report,
together with the recommendations of the Director of the Ad­
ministrative Office, the judicial councils of the circuits, and
the district courts concerned, and took the following action
relating to bankruptcy judge positions and changes in salaries
and arrangements. The Conference directed that, subject to
the availability of funds, these actions become effective on
October 1, 1979:

                            FIFfH CIRCUIT
Mississippi, Southern
     (1) 	 Established a second full-time bankruptcy' judge position with
           headquarters at Biloxi at the salary authorized by Congress for a
           full-time bankruptcy judge.
     (2) 	 Authorized concurrent district-wide jurisdiction for the two full­
           time bankruptcy judges in the district.
                                    90
      of the Probation Information Management System (PIMS),
      recommended by the Committee will go a long way toward
      providing the data suggested by the report.
        Three additional recommendations call upon the Judicial
     Conference to (1) "establish policy guidance for judges," (2)
      "periodically study the adequacy of sentencing decisions," and
     (3) "request from the Congress" any authority needed to
     assure that "sentencing of criminals is consistent and fair
     among and within districts."
        As to these three recommendations, the Committee believes
     that it would be inappropriate for the Judicial Conference to
     initiate a program to reduce undesirable sentencing disparity in
    district courts until Congress resolves certain fundamental
     issues relating to the sentencing function. Pending bills set
     forth varying and sometimes conflicting objectives and criteria
     for reducing disparity in sentencing. The Committee notes that
    some critical decisions, including the role of parole in the cor­
    rections process, are beyond the reach of any determination
    that might be made by the Judicial Conference.
        The Committee shares the general concern that sentencing
    should operate fairly and equitably for all offenders. We
    believe that at this time the Judicial Conference should not at­
    tempt to establish guidelines to eliminate undesirable disparity
    until the disposition of the legislative proposals now pending
    before Congress. Federal judges possess vast experience in
    sentencing and bear the responsibility for carrying out sentenc­
    ing policy established by Congress. The Judicial Conference
    through the Probation Committee should continue to address
    the problem of undesirable sentencing disparity. If Congress
    should fail to adopt new measures relating to sentencing, the
    Judicial Conference should consider recommending guidelines
    for use at the discretion of district judges to reduce undesirable
    disparity in sentencing.


      PROBATION INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

  The Judicial Conference in September 1977 (Conf. Rept.;·
p. 74) endorsed the concept of a new probation informatiolJ
management system that would meet the needs of the users irt
the field; the judge in his day-to-day sentencing problems; the
needs of a national system for budget, planning, and manage­
ment control purposes; and the needs of researchers seeking
to improve understanding of the treatment of offenders.
                                91 

  Judge Tjoflat informed the Conference that the first phase
of the program is now complete and that the Administrative
Office is now engaged in developing user requirements for a
model information system. This effort will require the partici­
pation of eight district courts and the staffs of the Ad­
ministrative Office and the Federal Judicial Center. The
Board of the Center has endorsed the project as well as the
Center's participation.

                 PRETRIAL SERVICES AGENCIES

   Title II of the Speedy Trial Act of 1974 required the Direc­
tor of the Administrative office to file a comprehensive report
with the Congress on or before July 1, 1979 regarding the ad­
ministration and operation of pretrial services agencies in the
ten demonstration districts. In March 1979 (Conf. Rept., p.
35) the Conference authorized the Committee to exercise con­
tinued oversight of the completion on the Director's report,
and authorize on behalf of the Conference the release of the
Director's report to the Congress.
   Judge Tjoflat informed the Conference that the Committee
had cleared the Director's report and recommendations for
transmission to Congress. A copy of the report had previously
been provided to the members of the Conference.

  COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
              CRIMINAL LAW
  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Criminal Law was presented by the Chairman, Judge Alex­
ander Harvey II.

                       HABEAS CORPUS

  H. R. 2201, 96th Congress, would amend sections 2254 and
2255 of Title 28, United States Code, to require a district
court to entertain a habeas corpus application from a state
prisoner without regard to whether the State court had afford­
ed the applicant an opportunity for a full and fair litigation of
the constitutional claim upon which the application was bas­
ed. The bill would overrule the decision of the Supreme Court
in Stone v. Powell, 428 U.S. 465 (1976), which held that
                                    92 


 where a State court has afforded an opportunity for the full
and fair litigation of a Fourth Amendment claim, a petitioner
in a Federal court may not be granted Federal habeas corpus
relief on the ground that evidence obtained in an uncon­
stitutional search or seizure had been introduced at his triaL
While the bill as drafted might appear to eliminate the well­
established requirement that a prisoner must exhaust remedies
in State courts before seeking Federal habeas corpus relief,
the Committee was advised that the sole purpose of the legis­
lation is to overrule Stone v. Powell and not to eliminate the
exhaustion requirement.
   It was the view of the Committee that the desirability or
necesity for this legislation is for the Congress to decide and
that the Conference should take no position on the policy
question involved. The Committee recommended, however,
that subsection (2) of section 1 of the bill be modified, as
shown below, to reflect more precisely the intent of the
drafters.

     (2) 	 by inserting before the period of subsection (a) a comma
           and the following: "without regard to whether a full and
           fair litigation of such claim has already been had in state
           court, so long as such person has fully exhausted his
           available state remedies concerning the question
           presented. "

   The Committee also noted that the passage of the bill would
undoubtedly impact 'on the Federal courts by increasing the
caseload. The recommendation was approved by the Con­
ference.


      FEES AND EXPENSES OF A TIORNEYS REPRESENTING 

        INDIGENT PERSONS IN CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIONS 


   Judge Harvey stated that the Committee had considered tIie,
problem of paying the fees and expenses of attorneys ap­
pointed by district courts to represent indigent persons in civil
rights actions. Since this subject is not within the jurisdiction
of the Criminal law Committee, the Conference directed that
it be referred to another standing committee of the Con­
ference, or to a special committee, for study and report.
                               93 


     IN CAMERA SCREENING OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION

   S. 1482, 96th Congress, is a bill to establish a procedure for
the in camera screening of classified information by a judge
before such information may be introduced in a Federal
criminal proceeding. The bill would permit a party to move
for a pretrial conference to consider matters relating to
classified information expected to arise in the course of a
criminal trial. To prevent the release of classified information
the court would be authorized to issue protective orders,
delete specified items of information, or order substitution of
summaries of information contained in classified documents.
The bill would also require a defendant who expects to dis­
close classified information to give advance notice thereof to
the Government. .
   Judge Harvey informed the Conference that while the
Committee is not entirely persuaded of the necessity for the
legislation, it is not opposed to the bill. He pointed out,
however, that the bill would require the Chief Justice of the
United States, in consultation with the Attorney General, the
Director of Central Intelligence, and the Secretary of Defense
to prescribe security procedures for protection against the
release of classified information submitted to Federal courts.
It was the view of the Committee that the promulgation of
security procedures should be made the responsibility of the
Judicial Conference rather than that of the Chief Justice. The
bill also provides for the preservation by "the United States"
of the sealed record of undisclosed classified information. It
was the view of the Committee that such information should
be preserved by the courts.
  Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
approved the legislation with the modifications suggested.


          COMMITIEE ON THE OPERATION 

             OF THE JURY SYSTEM 


  Chief Judge C. Clyde Atkins, Chairman of the Committee
on the Operation of the Jury System, presented the report of
the Committee.
                               94
               USE OF VOTER REGISTRATION LISTS

    At its session in April 1976 (Conf. Rept., p. 9) the Con­
 ference endorsed legislation authorizing the use of voter
 registration lists as a presumptively sufficient sole source for
 the names of prospective Federal jurors. The legislation
 recommended by the Conference would have established a
 statutory presumption that juries chosen from voter regis­
 tration lists or lists of actual voters represent a fair cross­
section of the community and would have required an affir­
mative finding by the district court that this presumption had
been rebutted before the court could prescribe other sources
of juror names in addition to the voter lists. This proposal was
submitted to the 94th Congress and the 95th Congress, but
was not included in the enactment of the Jury System Im­
provements Act of 1978.
   It was the view of the Committee that this proposed legis­
lation would be helpful in establishing greater certainty in the
jury trial process, thus reducing the number of legal
challenges to jury selection. Upon recommendation of the
Committee, the Conference approved a new draft bill which
would effect this amendment and authorized its transmission
to the Congress.

               CHILD CARE EXCUSE OF JURORS

   The jury selection statute, 28 U.S.C. 1863(b)(5), authorizes
district courts to specify in their jury selection plans those
groups of persons or occupational classes whose members
shall be entitled to be excused from jury service upon in­
dividual request to the court. One such category commonly
found in the selection plans adopted by the district courts con­
sists of those persons who are needed to care for children
under a particular age.
   In the recent case of Duren v. Missouri, 439 U.S. 357 (1979)
the Supreme Court held that a state's automatic exemption of
women from jury service upon request denied a criminal
defendant's constitutional right to trial by a jury drawn from
a fair cross-section of the community. The Civil Rights Divi­
sion of the Department of Justice has examined the excuse
provisions contained in the jury selection plans of the district
courts and has noted that many plans authorize the excuse
                                     95 


only of women' who have custody of children. The Civil
Rights Division has recommended that these provisions
should be reworded so as to provide for the excuse of all per­
sons having the daily responsibility of child care, not just
women or mothers, and to ensure that they do not have the
overbroad effect of excusing parents not actually needed for
the care of young children during the business day.
  The jury selection plan adopted by the Northern District of
Alabama contains a provision making eligible for excuse from
jury service
     Persons having active care and custody of a child or children
     under 10 years of age whose health andlor safety would be
     jeopardized by their absence for jury service; or a person who
     is essential to the care of aged or infirm persons.
   While each court should be encouraged to arrive at an in­
dividual decision on the appropriate maximum age of children
that should entitle a parent or guardian to be excused from
jury service on account of child care responsibilities, the Com­
mittee recommended that the Conference authorize a com­
munication to district courts urging those courts to review the
child-care excuse provisions of their jury selection plans in
light of the Supreme Court decision, the' views of the Civil
Rights Division, and the above example in the jury plan of the
Northern District of Alabama, which was cited as a model.
This recommendation was approved by the Conference.

         EMERGENCY ENERGY SHORTAGE PROCEDURES

   Judge Atkins reported that the Committee had considered
the prospective impact of a severe or prolonged gasoline shor­
tage on the judicial process, particularly the need to insure the
presence of a sufficient number of jurors. The Committee
believed that each district court should have a contingency
plan setting forth the means available to obtain emergency
gasoline supplies for the use of the court, its personnel, and
jurors. Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Con­
ference took the following action:
     1. 	 Requested that each United States district court devise a
          contingency plan governing its operation in the event of an
          emergency shortage of gasoline adversely affecting the
          availability of transportation within that judicial district.
          Such plan should aim to minimize. any disruption of
                                     96

          scheduled trials by implementing all available means to ex­
          pedite the transportation of judges, court personnel, and
          jurors.
     2. 	 Recommended that any district court which might be faced
          with a local energy shortage of emergency dimensions
          should consider making application to the judicial council
          of its circuit for an emergency suspension of the Speedy
          Trial Act time limitations, in accordance with 18 U.S.C.
         3174.
     3. 	 Authorized appointment of an ad hoc committee to
           monitor the nationwide implications of the energy problem
           upon the Judiciary and to develop, with the assistance of
          the Administrative Office, a national plan to assist in­
          dividual federal courts in gaining access to auxiliary sup­
          plies of gasoline in the event of an emergency.
     4.. Directed the Administrative Office to investigate the
          feasibility of procuring emergency stocks of gasoline for
          allocation by affected courts to their personnel and jurors
          and to obtain from the Department of Energy any
          necessary allocation authority for this purpose. To this
          end, the Administrative Office is authorized to establish a
          pilot district or districts in order to aid the development of
          such a gasoline supply mechanism and to investigate any
          alternative means to afford jurors a priority right to pur­
          chase gasoline required for their transportation to court.

             ORIENTATION FILM FOR GRAND JURORS

   The Committee suggested that it would be useful to have
available an orientation film for Federal grand jurors, similar
to the orientation film for petit jurors which was produced by
Wayne State University under a grant from the Law Enforce­
ment Assistance Administration and the Michigan Bar Foun­
dation. At present no private organization has undertaken to
finance the production of such a grand jury orientation film.              i

The Conference thereupon approved a request of the Com:­
mittee that it be authorized to investigate sources of private '.
funding for the development of such a film.

   COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
  The written report of the Committee on Intercircuit Assign­
ments submitted by the Chairman, Judge George L. Hart, Jr.,
was received by the Conference.
                               97 

     The report indicated that during the period from February
  16, 1979 through August 15, 1979, the Committee had recom­
 mended 41 intercircuit assignments to be undertaken by 32
 judges. Of this number, five were senior circuit judges, one
 was an active circuit judge, five were district judges in active
 status and 14 were senior district judges. Eight assignments in­
 volved three active judges and two senior judges of the Court
 of Claims, one active judge of the Customs Court and one ac­
 tive judge of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals.
    Four senior circuit judges, nine senior district judges and
 two senior judges from the Court of Claims carried out 19 of
 the 24 assignments to the courts of appeals. One active circuit
judge, one active judge of the Court of Customs and Patent
Appeals and three active judges of the Court of Claims par­
ticipated in the other five assignments to the courts of ap­
peals.
    Of the 15 assignments to the district courts, seven senior
district judges participated in one assignment each, the re­
maining eight being carried out by four active district judges,
one senior circuit judge and one active judge of the Customs
Court.
    Of the two assignments to the Court of Customs and Patent
Appeals, one was carried out by an active district judge and
the other by an active circuit judge.
    In addition to the above, an interchange of assignments bet­
ween the active judges of the United States Court of Claims
and the active judges of the United States Court of Customs
and Patent Appeals has been approved to cover any emer­
gency which may arise from April 1, 1979 to March 31, 1980.
Similarly, the active judges of the United States Court of Ap­
peals for the District of Columbia Circuit have been assigned
to the Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals from March
20, 1979 to March 20, 1980.

           COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT THE 

              CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT 

  Senior Judge Dudley B. BonsaI, Chairman of the Com­
mittee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented the
Committee's report.
                                98
                  ApPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

    The Conference authorized the Director of the Administra­
 tive Office to distribute copies of a report on appointments
 and payments under the Criminal Justice Act for the first half
 of the fiscal year 1979 to all chief judges, all federal defender
 organizations and to others who may request copies. The
 report indicated that the sum of $24,800,000 was appro­
priated by Congress for the administration of the Act during
the fiscal year 1979 and that projected obligations during the
year are $23,973,000. During the first half of the fiscal year
approximately 19,084 persons were represented under the
Criminal Justice Act compared to 20,328 during the first half
of the fiscal year 1978, a decrease of 6.1 percent. Federal
public defenders represented 6,618 persons during the first
half of the fiscal year 1979 and community defender organ­
izations represented 3,583 persons. Collectively, these offices
accounted for 53.5 percent of all representations.
    The Committee estimated that the average cost of represen­
tation under the Criminal Justice Act during the fiscal year
1979, including appeal, will be $469 per case for private panel
attorneys, $464 per case for Community Defender Organiza­
tions, and $574 per case for Federal Public Defender offices.

       BUDGET REQUESTS-FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS

  The Criminal Justice Act, as amended, requires each
Federal Public Defender Organization, established pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. 3006A(h)(2)(a), to submit a proposed budget to
be approved by the Judicial Conference in accordance with
Section 605 of Title 28, United States Code. The Conference
approved the following budgetary requests for these offices:

                                Supplemental             Budget      .
                                     Requests            Requests
Public Defender                 Approved for        Approved fOli
Organization                     F. y. 1980          F. Y. 1981


Arizona                                              $     690,265
California, Northern                                       567,584
California, Eastern                                        513,049
                                           99 

                                             Supplemental                  Budget
                                               Requests                   Requests
 Public Defender                             Approved for               Approved for
 Organization                                 F.Y.1980                   F. Y. 1981

 California, Central                                                        1,118,640
 Colorado                                                                     217,706
Connecticut                                                                   217,804
Florida, Northern                                                             153,771
Florida, Middle                                                               367,060
Florida, Southern                                                             483,872
Georgia, Southern                                                             167,744
Kansas                                                                        290,666
Kentucky, Eastern                                                             208,571
Louisiana, Eastern                                                            261,565
Maryland                                                                      454,765
Minnesota                                                                     148,651
Missouri, Western                                                            395,774
Nevada                                            $ 6,000                    248,144
New Jersey                                          7,100                    509,396
New Mexico                                          6,870                    213,796
Ohio, Northern                                                               269,217
Pennsylvania, Western                                                        215,969
Puerto Rico                                       65,666                     222,668
South Carolina                                                               199,069
Tennessee, Middle                                                            153,073
Tennessee, Western                                                           120,413
Texas, Southern                                                              458,297
Texas, Western                                                               477,037
Virgin Islands                                                               276,377
Washington, Western                                                          354,037
West Virginia, Southern                                                      138,727
Illinois, Central & Southern I
             Total                              $85,636                 $10,113,707
INo funds are authorized for the Federal Public Defender's Office during the fiscal year
1981.


 GRANT REQUESTS-COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

  The Conference considered grant requests from seven Com­
munity Defender Organizations and approved sustaining
grants for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1981 as follows:
                                    100

     Federal Defenders of San Diego, Inc.                   $ 802,000

     Federal Defender Program, Inc.­
     Atlanta, Georgia                                          214,000

     Federal Defender Program, Inc.­
     Chicago, Illinois                                         506,000

     Legal Aid and Defender Assn. of
     Detroit, Michigan, Federal Defender
     Division                                                  600,000

     Federal Defender Services Unit of the 

     Legal Aid Society of New York                           1,146,000 . 


     Federal Defender Inc.­
     Portland, Oregon                                          256,000 


     Federal Court Division of the 

     Defender Assn. of Philadelphia                            411,000 


       COMMUNITY DEFENDER-CONDITIONS OF GRANT

   In March 1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 39) the Conference adopted
terms and conditions governing sustaining grants to Com­
munity Defender Organizations commencing with the fiscal
year 1980. Clause 6 of the grant conditions, dealing with the
submission of annual reports by Community Defender
Organizations, was written to apply to the prior practice of
the Committee of considering grant requests annually at its
January meeting. Judge BonsaI reported that the Committee
has resolved to consolidate the consideration of all fiscal mat­
ters and funding requests for both Federal Public and Com­
munity Defender Organizations annually at its June meeting.
In order to conform the grant conditions to the new Commit­
tee practice, the Conference, upon recommendation of th~
Committee, amended Clause 6 of the grant conditions to read
as follows:                                                   ..
       6. ANNUAL REPORTS: As required by subsection
    (h)(2)(B) of the CJA, the Grantee must submit an annual
    report setting forth its activities, financial position and the an­
    ticipated caseload and expenses for the coming year. Instruc­
    tions for completing the annual report and its date of submis­
    sion will be provided to the Grantee by the Administrative Of­
    fice at least thirty (30) days prior to the submission date.
                                   101
     AMENDMENTS TO CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT GUIDELINES

  The Conference, upon recommendation of the Committee,
approved the following amendments to the Guidelines for the
Administration of the Criminal Justice Act:
     1. 	 An amendment to paragraph 3.03 of the Guidelines to re­
           quire ex parte applications for services other than counsel
           under subsection (e) to be heard in camera.
    2. 	 An amendment to paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines with
           regard to the appointment of counsel in cases transferred
           from one judicial district to another to make reference to
           Rule 20 as well as Rules 40 and 41, Federal Rules of .
          Criminal Procedure.
    3. 	 An amendment to paragraph 2.27(C) to make it clear that
          interim reimbursement procedures are available for the ex­
          penses of counsel and to limit the circumstances of interim
          reimbursement to cases in which expenses are extraor­
         <linary and substantial. The existing paragraph 2.27(C) is
          to become paragraph 2.27(D).
    4. 	 Amend paragraph 2.31 to provide guidance and uniformi­
          ty in the use of and payments to law students and legal in­
          terns assisting counsel appointed under the Act.
    S. 	 Amend paragraph 4.02(8) of the Guidelines to make clear
          that the receipt and use of grant funds is subject to the con­
          ditions of grant approved by the Conference and replace
          Appendix D with the conditions of grant so approved.


        COMMITIEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE 

               AND PROCEDURE 

  The report of the Committee on Rules of Practice and Pro­
cedure was submitted by the Chairman, Senior Judge Roszel
C. Thomsen.

                            CIVIL RULES

   Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
approved for transmittal to the Supreme Court of the United
States a series of proposed amendments to Rules 4, 5, 26, 28,
30, 32, 33, 34, 37, and 45, Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
Judge Thomsen stated that the proposed rules had twice been
circulated to the bench and bar for comment, that public
hearings had been held in Washington, D.C. and Los
                              102 


Angeles, California and that the Advisory Committee had ful­
ly considered the many comments received. The proposed
amendments were designed primarily to enable the district
courts to control abuses in the discovery process, which, in re­
cent years, had' been the subject of public criticism. The Con­
ference also authorized the transmission of the Advisory
Committee's report to the Supreme Court together with the
proposed amendments and the Advisory Committee notes.


                     BANKRUPTCY RULES

   Judge Thomsen advised the Conference that the Chief
Justice has appointed a new Advisory Committee on
Bankruptcy Rules to consider amendments to the rules of
bankruptcy procedure required by the new Bankruptcy Code,
which became effective on October 1, 1979. To assist the
bankruptcy courts in applying the existing bankruptcy rules to
bankruptcy cases commenced under the new Bankruptcy
Code, the Advisory Committee recently distributed interim
rules or guidelines with the suggestion that they be adopted as
local bankruptcy rules pending promulgation of binding
amendments to the bankruptcy rules. Copies of the interim
rules were made available to the members of the Conference
for their information.



                     ApPELLATE RULES

   Judge Thomsen stated that the Advisory Committee on Ap­
pellate Rules has not met since the last session of the Con­
ference, but that the reporter to the Committee has been
preparing materials for Committee consideration, concen~
trating on problems relating to the use of a printed record on
appeal. A meeting of the Advisory Committee will be schedui':i
ed as soon as this material is available.                    "
   The amendments to the Appellate Rules, approved by the
Conference last September, were approved by the Supreme
Court and were submitted by the .Chief Justice to the Con­
gress on April 30th and became effective August 1st.
                                103
                         CRIMINAL RULES

   The amendments to the Federal Rules of Criminal Pro­
 cedure, approved by the Conference in September 1978,
 (Conf. Rept., p. 84) were also approved by the Supreme
 Court and transmitted to the Congress by the Chief Justice on
 April 30th. The order of the Supreme Court approving the
 amended rules would have made them effective on August 1,
 1979. Congress, however, decided to postpone the effective
date of several amendments until December 1980, thus giving
the Congress an opportunity to consider those amendments
during the second session of the 96th Congress.
   The Advisory Committee is presently considering proposed
.amendments to "Rules for the Trial of Misdemeanors Before
United States Magistrates" in the event jurisdiction in misde­
meanor cases is given to magistrates by the proposed amend­
ments to the Federal Magistrates Act. The Advisory Com­
mittee is also considering other suggested amendments to the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.

       COMMITTEE TO CONSIDER STANDARDS 

          .FOR ADMISSION TO PRACTICE 

             IN THE FEDERAL COURTS 

   Chief Judge Edward J. Devitt, Chairman of the Committee
to Consider Standards for Admission to Practice in the
Federal Courts, presented the final report of the Committee.
Judge Devitt informed the Conference that its final report
represents the culmination of three years work during which
time the Committee investigated the issue thoroughly, held
numerous hearings and meetings throughout the country,
made tentative recommendations to the Conference, and
solicited and received substantial comment from the hench,
bar, and public concerning its recommendations. The Com­
mittee was aided in its work by surveys conducted by the Fed­
eral Judicial Center which have established that there is a sub­
stantial problem relating to the adequacy of trial advocacy in
the Federal trial courts.
  After full discussion the Conference adopted the following
resolution:
      RESOLVED: l(a). That the Judicial Conference create a
    special committee of the Conference to oversee and monitor,
                               104 


on a pilot basis, an examination on federal practice subjects, a
trial experience requirement and a peer review procedure, in a
selected number of district courts that indicate a desire to
cooperate in any or all of the above programs.
     l(b). The Conference makes no recommendations at this
time on any of the above noted admission standards to any dis­
tricts other than those participating in the pilot programs.
     I(c). The following guidelines, shall, without excluding
others that the implementing committee may adopt, constitute
a basis for planning, carrying out and assessing the pilot pro­
grams:
        I. Combinations and permutations of the different
    remedies should be adopted in different localities so that
    the relative merits of different proposals might be judged.
    For example, one district might adopt all of the Commit­
   tee's proposed requirements, while another might adopt
   just the trial experience requirement and .peer review.
       2. Local districts should be able to modify the pro­

   posals to meet special needs of their practice. For exam­

   ple, a district with a great number. of sole practitioners 

   might establish, with the cooperation of the local bar, a 

   seminar and mock trial program that would satisfy the 

   experience requirement. Another might mandate that the 

   experience requirement could be met by supervision of the 

   fledgling lawyer at his first federal court trial or two by an 

   experienced volunteer litigator. A district could also limit 

   examination to those subjects not tested on the state or 

   multi-state bar exams. 

       3. The operation of the requirements must be carefully 

   observed to see whether any are effective in raising the 

  quality of trial advocacy and whether any burdens impos­

  ed on the bar are compensated by improved lawyering. 

      4. Because there is so much yet to know about the 

  qualitiy of trial advocacy, it is imperative that sufficient 

  time, money and expertise be available for studying the 

  pilot programs. The knowledge gained may be more 

  valuable than any improvement in trial skills. Experience 

  with the pilot programs should help improve understan­

  ding of the general state of lawyering skills, help to for­

  mulate workable standards for evaluating courtroom 

  performance, and facilitate prediction of what means are 

  most appropriate for addressing specific failings of ad­

  vocacy. 

      5. Finally, as a general proposition, attitudes toward 

  the pilot programs should be inquisitive, empirical and 

  flexible. 

                                    105
       2. That the Judicial Conference recommend to the district
     courts generally that:
         a. They adopt a student practice rule;
         b. They support continuing legal education programs
       on trial advocacy and federal practice subjects and en­
       courage the practicing bar to attend.
        3. That the Judicial Conference recommend to the
     American Bar Association that it consider amending its law
     school accreditation standards to require that all schools pro­
     vide courses in trial advocacy, including student participation
     in actual or simulated trials taught by instructors having litiga­
     tion experience, and that the bench and bar be encouraged to
     support the law schools in achieving the goal of providing
     quality trial advocacy training to all students who want it.

     AD HOC COMMITTEE ON THE DISPOSITION
              OF COURT RECORDS
   The report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Disposition of
Court Records was presented by the Chairman, Judge Walter
J. Cummings.

  RECORDS OF DISTRICT COURTS AND BANKRUPTCY COURts

   In March 1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 46) the Conference
authorized the circulation of a draft "Records Disposition
Program and Schedule" for the disposition of the records of
the United States district courts and bankruptcy courts to all
district judges and other interested officers in the district
courts with a request that comments thereon be submitted to
the Committee. Judge Cummings informed the Conference
that the Committee had received comments from a number of
district judges, bankruptcy judges, clerks of district courts,
probation officers, the Administrative Office, the Federal
judicial Center, and the Immigration and Naturalization Ser~
vice. In addition the Committee had considered the comments
of the National Archives and Records Service. As a result the
periods for the retention of certain court records, originally
proposed, were increased.
  Upon recommendation of the Committee the Conference
approved the Records Disposition Program and Schedule sub~
mitted by the Committee with one amendment increasing the
                                 106 


retention period for bankruptcy case files from 10 to 20 years.
The Committee was authorized to make further changes in the
disposition schedule that might be called for as a result of an
appraisal of the schedule by the National Archives and
Records Service.

   PRESERVATION OF RECORDS HAVING HISTORICAL VALUE

   Judge Cummings stated that several judges and others who
commented on the original draft schedule expressed concern
that steps be taken to assure the preservation of those records
of the district courts and bankruptcy courts having historical
value. He stated that the Committee had been assured by the
National Archives and Records Service that procedures for
making this determination will be developed. The National
Archives and Records Service has been requested to submit a
plan to determine which temporary court records have such
archival value as to warrant permanent retention by the Na­
tional Archives. In addition the Committee is proposing the
creation of an "Archives-History Committee" in each circuit
to identify those records having potential historical value, so
that they may be segregated at the time they are retired to a
records center.

                        OTHER RECORDS

   Judge Cummings informed the Conference that the Com­
mittee would consider disposition schedules for the records of
the courts of appeals and other courts in the Federal judicial
system and will report thereon to the Conference at a future
session.

                MEMORIAL RESOLUTIONS
                                                                   i

  Noting the recent death of Judge John Biggs, Jr., a former
member of the Conference and former Chairman of severlLl
Conference committees, the Conference adopted the follow~
ing resolution:                                           .,
                   HONORABLE JOHN BIGGS. JR.
      The Judicial Conference notes with sorrow the death of
    Judge John Biggs, Jr., on April 15, 1979. Judge Biggs joined
    the Conference in April 1939 when he became Senior Circuit
                                  107

     Judge of the Third Circuit, later denominated Chief Judge,
     and served on the Conference for more than 26 years until Oc­
    tober 1965. Throughout this period Judge Biggs was a stalwart
    leader in the work of the Conference, serving as the chairman
    or member of numerous Conference committees. In 1955 he
    organized the Committee on Court Admiriistration and served
    as its chairman for 14 years. He was chairman of the Com­
    mittee on Supporting Personnel from 1940 to 1969, chairman
    of the Subcommittee on Judicial Salaries, Annuities and
    Tenure of the Committee on Court Administration from 1969
    to 1970, and a member of the Committee on Judicial Statistics
    from 1957 to 1969. During his service on the Judicial Con­
    ference he also served on numerous ad hoc Conference com­
    mittees.
       His dedication to the work of the Conference brought him to
    Washington frequently to meet with representatives of the
    Judiciary Committees of the Congress and to testify before
    Congress on behalf of the Conference on legislative matters af­
    fecting the Judiciary, including the annual Judiciary budget.
    His voice before the Congress and the Conference was strong
    and influentiaL Few judges in the history of the Federal
    Judiciary have contributed as much to the development of the
    Federal Judiciary as did Judge John Biggs, Jr.
      The members of the Conference mourn the passing of this
    distinguished and dedicated jurist and colleague.
   Noting also the recent death of Judge William B. Jones, a
former member of the Conference and Chairman of the Com­
mittee on Judicial Activities, the Conference adopted the
following resolution:
                   HONORABLE WILLIAM B. JONES

       The Judicial Conference of the United States takes note with
    deep sorrow of the death of Judge William Blakely Jones on
    July 31, 1979, in Washington, D.C.
       Born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on March 20, 1907, Judge
    Jones spent his boyhood in Denison and Sioux City, Iowa; and
    then attended the University of Notre Dame for both his under­
    graduate and legal training. Judge Jones starred as a football
    player under the fabled Knute Rockne, served as coach of the
    freshman football team under Rockne while attending Notre
    Dame Law School, and was a highly successful football coach
    at Carroll College in Helena, Montana.
      After a successful period in private practice in Montana,
    Judge Jones became a Washington lawyer in the Lands Division
                                    108
       of the Justice Department, served in the Office of Price Ad­
       ministration, and was Secretary of the Joint British-American
       Patent Interchange Committee during World War II.
         Entering private practice in Washington in 1946, he quickly
      established a brilliant reputation as a lawyer of exceptional
      ability.
         Judge Jones gave up an outstanding law practice to begin his
      service as a United States district judge on May 14, 1962, and
      quickly became recognized as one of the nation's most
      distinguished jurists because of his ability, zeal, and hard
      work. Judge Jones served as Chief Judge of the United States
      District Court for the District of Columbia from July 14, 1975,
      until March 20, 1977 when he accepted senior status.
         Despite the great burdens which Judge Jones carried as a
      judge and chief judge in the District of Columbia, he was active
      and vigorous in a substantial number of legal associations and
      organizations. Judge lones served as Chairman of the Board of
     the National Institute of Trial Advocacy and as Chairman of
     the Judicial Conference Advisory Committee on Judicial Ac­
     tivities. He also served as Chairman of the Judicial Administra­
     tion Division of the American Bar Association, and was a
     Judicial Fellow in the American College of Trial Lawyers and a
     member of the American Bar Foundation.
        Judge Jones' life was one of challenge, hard work, and the
     successful pursuit of excellence in all that he did. In every role
     he won the respect and affection of everyone with whom he
     worked and was revered as a leader, counselor, and friend. The
     Judicial Conference of the United States adopts this resolution
     in memory and appreciation of his life and service. The sym­
     pathy of all Conference members is extended to Mrs. Alice
     Jones and his daughter Barbara.

                             ELECTIONS
  The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 62 1(a)(2) , elected
Judge Donald S. Voorhees of the United States District Court
for the Western District of Washington to membership on th,e
Bmud of the Federal Judicial Center to fill the unexpired term
of Chief Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jr., of the District of Oregon,
who has been elevated to the position of circuit judge on the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
  The Conference also elected Bankruptcy Judge Lloyd D.
George of the District of Nevada to the Board of the Federal
Judicial Center for a term of four years, pursuant to
                              109 


Section 228 of the Act to establish a uniform law on the
subject of bankruptcies, Public Law 95-598, approved
November 6, 1978.

              PRETERMISSION OF TERMS 

             OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS 

   The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the
pretermission of terms of the courts of appeals for the Fifth,
Eighth and Tenth Circuits during the calendar year 1980 as
follows: in the Fifth Circuit at all places except New Orleans;
in the Eighth Circuit at Omaha, Nebraska; and in the Tenth
Circuit, at Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and Wichita, Kansas.

         RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION
   The Conference authorized the immediate release of mat­
ters considered at this session where necessary for legislative
or administrative action.

                                   Warren E. Burger
                           Chief Justice of the United States

November 12, 1979
                                                     INDEX

                                                                                                              Page
 Additional Judgeships. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 60 

 Administrative Office of the United States Courts:
      Report of the Director. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. 55 

Admission to Practice in the Federal Courts, Standards
   To Consider:
     Committee on, Report of .................................. 103 

     Resolution ............................................... 103 

Advisory Panel on Financial Disclosure Reports and
   Judicial Activities:
     Codes of Conduct for Staff Attorneys, Circuit
        Executives and Public Defenders .......................... 81 

     Committee on, Report of .................................. 80 

Air Disaster Litigation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 64 

Appointments and Payments under the Criminal Justice                                                    .

  Act. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 98 

Appellate Rules ............................. ~ ................. 102 

Appropriations: 

     Budget Requests-Federal Public Defenders ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 98 

     Fiscal 1980 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 77 

     Fiscal 1981, estimates.. . . . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . .. 78 

     Grant Requests-Community Defender Organizations ........ " 99 

Attorneys: 

     Delay of Proceedings by . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . .. .. .. . . .. .... 73 

     Fees. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 65 

     Fees and Expenses in Connection with Repre­
       sentation of Indigent Persons. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 92 

Attorneys, Staff: 

     Code of Conduct for. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 81 

Biggs, Honorable John, Jr., -Memorial Resolution                                                                 •

  on the Death of ................ " ............................ Id6
Bankruptcy Rules ............................................. ~'O2
Bankruptcy System:
    Committee on, Report of .................................. 87 

    Salaries and Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges ............. 87 


                                                      110 

                                                     III 

Budget: 

     Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1980 ......................... 77 

     Budget Estimates for Fiscal Year 1981. ....................... 78 

     Committee on, Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 77 

Bureau of Justice Statistics, National .......................... .. 60 

Circuit Executives: 

     Code of Conduct for ...................................... 81 

Civil Rights Actions, Fees and Expenses of Attorneys 

  Representing Indigent Persons. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 92 

Civil Rules ................................................... 101 

Class Actions ................................................ 68 

Classified Information, In Camera Screening of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 93 

Community Defender, Conditions of Grant. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 99 

Conference: 

     Call of .................................................. 53 

     Release of Action ........................•...........•.... 109 

Cost of Living Allowances for Judicial Offkers and 

  Employees Serving Outside the Continental United 

  States or in Alaska ......................................... , 73 

Court Administration: 

     Additional Judgeships. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . . . .. 60 

     Air Disaster Litigation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 64 

     Appellate Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 69 

    Attorneys' Fees ......................................... ,. 65 

    Class Actions ...........................•................ 68 

    Committee on, Report of ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 56 

    Cost of Living Allowances for Judicial Officers and 

       Employees Serving Outside the Continental United
       States or in Alaska ..................................... , 73 

    Court of Labor-Management Relations .•.................... 67 

    Declaratory Judgement in Cases Involving Public 

       Utilities ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • .. 72 

    Delay of Proceedings by Attorneys ........... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 73 

    Diversity Jurisdiction ...................................... 66 

    Enforcement of State Custody Orders. . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . .. 69 

    Equal Employment Opportunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 58 

    Federal Courts Improvements Act of 1979 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 61 

    Guidelines for the Employment of Secretaries and 

      Law Clerks by Circuit, District and Bankruptcy Judges ....... 76 

    Judicial Review of Veterans' Claims. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 66 

    Judicial Survivors Annuity Act. ............................. 72 

    Judicial Tenure ......................................... " 57 

    Libraries .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 74 

    Limitations on Salaries of Judge's Personal Staff .... . . . • . . . . .. 75 

   National Bureau of Justice Statistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 60 

                                                   112 


Court Administration (cont'd)
    Rental of Space and Facilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 58 

    Retirement of TerritorialJudges ............................ 73 

    Space Utilization ......................................... 59 

    Standing to Sue. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 70 

    Tenure of Chief Judges of Circuit and District Courts .......... 73 

    Transfer of the United States Parole Commission to the 

       Judicial Branch of the Government ........................ 74 

    Trial of Protracted Cases. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 57 

Court Records: 

    Committee on, Report of .................................. 105 

    Other Records ............................................ 106 

    Preservation of Records having Historical Value ............... 106 

    Records of District Courts and Bankruptcy Courts ............. 105 

Courts: 

    Bankruptcy: 

          Disposition of Records ................................. 105 

          Preservation of Records having Historical Value ........... 106 

          Statistics ............................................ 55 

    Courts of Appeals: 

          Additional Judgeships for District of Columbia. . . . . . . . . . .. 60 

          Disposition Schedules for Court Records ................. 106 

          Equal Employment Opportunity. . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 58 

          Federal Courts Improvements Act of 1979 .............. " 61 

          Libraries ...... . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 74 

          Pretermission of Terms of Court ........................ 109 

          Rental of Space and Facilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 58 

          Statistics ............................................ 55 

          Tenure of Chief Judges ................................ 73 

   Court of Labor-Management Relations ...................... 67 

   District Courts: 

          Disposition of Records ................................ 105 

         Entertain a Habeas Corpus Application from 

            a State Prisoner. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 91 

         Equal Employment Opportunity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 58 

         Federal Courts Improvements Act of 1979 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 61 

         Jurisdiction to Enforce any Custody Order of a 

            State Court Against a Parent Who Takes a 

            Child to Another State. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ,69 

         Preservation of Records Having Historical Value .. ~ ....... 1b6 

         Rental of Space and Facilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 58 

        Statistics ............................................ 55 

        Tenure of Chief Judges. . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 73 

   Supreme Court: 

        Alter Certain Recent Decisions Relating to Standing to Sue.. 70 

                                                      113

 Criminal Justice Act: 

      Amendments to Criminal Justice Act Guidelines ............... 101 

      Appointments and Payments ............................... 98 

      Budget Requests-Federal Public Defenders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 98 

      Committee on, Report of .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 97 

      Community Defender-Conditions of Grant .................. 100 

      Grant Requests-Community Defender Organizations. . . . . . . . .. 99 

 Criminal Law: 

      Committee on, Report of ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 91 

     Fees and Expenses of Attorneys Representing 

        Indigent Persons in Civil Rights Actions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 92 

     Habeas Corpus. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 91 

     In Camera Screening of Classified Information. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 93 

 Criminal Rules ............................................... 103 

 Disparity in Sentences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 89 

 Energy, Emergency Shortage Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 95 

Equal Employment Opportunity ............................... , 58 

Federal Judicial Center: 

     Elections to the Board ..................................... 108 

     Report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 56 

George, Lloyd D., Bankruptcy Judge, Election to the 

   Board of the FederalJudicial Center ........................... 108 

Guidelines: 

     Amendments to the Criminal Justice Act ..................... 101 

     Employment of Secretaries and Law Clerks by 

       Circuit, District and Bankruptcy Judges .................... 76 

Habeas Corpus Application from a State Prisoner, Amend­
  ments to Require a District Court to Entertain. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 91 

Intercircuit Assignments:                                                                                 .

     Committee on, Report of .................................. 96 

Jones, Honorable William B., Memorial Resolution on 

  the Death of ............................................... 107 

Judges: 

     Bankruptcy: 

          Salaries and Arrangements .. . . .. . .. . . . .. .. .. .. .. . . . .... 87 

          Space Utilization ...................................... 59 

    Cost of Living Allowances for Serving Outside
       the Continental United States or Alaska. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 73 

    Judicial Tenure •........•.•............................... 57 

    Limitations on Salaries of Judge's Personal 

       Staff. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 75 

    Panel of Senior Judges for Trial of Protracted 

       Cases .. . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 57 

    Retirement of Territorial Judges ............................ 73 

    Tenure of Chief Judges .................................. " 73 

                                                      114 


 Judicial Conduct:
      Codes for Staff Attorneys, Circuit Executives
         and Public Defenders .................................... 81
 Judicial Ethics:
      Committee on, Report of .................................. 78
 Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 56
 Judicial Survivors Annuity Act. . . . .. . . . . . .. .. . . .. . . . .. . . . . . .. ... 72
 Judicial Tenure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . .. 57
 Jurisdiction:
      Appellate, of the Supreme Court. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . . . .. .. . . .. .. 69
      Court of Labor-Management Relations ...................... 67
      Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 66
      Grant to District Court to Enforce Any Custody
         Order of a State Court Against a Parent Who
         Takes a Child to Another State.. . . . .. . . . .... . . . . .. . . . . . . ... 69
Jury Selection:
      Child Care Excuse of Jurors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 94
      Emergency Energy Shortage Procedures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 95
      Use of Federal Registration Lists. . .. . .. . . . . .. . .. . . .. .. .. . . .. 94
Jury System:
     Child Care Excuse of JUrors. • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 94
     Committee on, Report of ................................... 93
     Emergency Energy Shortage Procedures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 95
     Orientation Film for Grand Jurors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 96
     Use of Voter Registration Lists ............ " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 94
Jurors, Grand:
     Orientation Film. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . .. 96
Legislation:
     S. 237, 	to Require the Issuance of Binding Regula­
        tions Governing the Appointment and Reappointment of
        United States Magistrates by the District Courts .....•..•.... 81
     S. 265 entitled "Equal Access to Justice
        Act" to Provide for an Award of Attorneys
        Fees to Prevailing Parties in Proceedings
        before Administrative Agencies. . . . .• . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 65
     S. 330 to Establish Procedures for the Adjudication
       of Claims for Benefits Administered by the
        Veterans Administration ................................. 6,6
     S. 450 and H. R. 2700 to Eliminate Direct Appeals
       to the Supreme Court. ........•................... '.' .....•. ,:69
    S. 679 and H. R. 2202 to Eliminate the Amount in Con­
       troversy Requirement for Federal Question Jurisdiction. . • . . •. 66
    S. 680 and H. R. 1047 to Alter Certain Recent
       Decisions of the Supreme Court of the United
       States Relating to Standing to Sue . . • • . • .. . .. .. . . . . . .. . .... 70
                                                    115
     S. 	862 to Permit the Chief Judges of Circuit and 

         District Courts to Serve Beyond 70 Years of Age. . . . . . . . . . . .. 73 

     S. 	1477 to Provide for Improvements in the Structure 

        and Administration ofthe Federal Courts ................. " 61 

     S. 	1482 to Establish a Procedure for the In Camera 

        Screening of Classified Information ....................... 93 

     H. 	R. 229 to Provide More Timely Judicial Resolution 

        of Tax Issues. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 72 

     H. 	R. 231 to Amend Title 28 U.S.C. to Establish a 

        Federal Cause of Action for and Federal Court Pro­
        cedures with Respect to Aviation Activities .................. 64 

     H. 	R. 325 and 772 to Amend 28 U.S.C. 1332 to Grant 

        Jurisdiction to a District Court to Enforce any Custody 

        Order of a State Court Against a Parent Who Takes 

        a Child to Another State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 69 

     H. R. 	2061 and 2108 to Establish a National 

        Bureau of Justice Statistics. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 60 

     H, R. 	2201 to Require a District Court to Entertain 

        a Habeas Corpus Application from a State Prisoner. . . . . . . . .. 91 

     H. R. 2353 to Provide for the Establishment of 

       a Court of Labor-Management Relations ................. " 67 

     H. 	R. 2974 to Amend the Judicial Survivors Annuity Act 

       to Provide that an Annuity would not Terminate 

       by Remarriage of an Annuitant after Age 60 ... . . . . . . . . . . . .. 72 

    H. R. 3452 to Amend 28 U.S.C. 373 to Provide a Minimum 

       Level for Retirment Salaries of Territorial Judges ............ 73 

    H. R. 4047 to Require any Attorney Admitted to Practice 

       in the Federal Courts Personally to Satisfy the Costs, 

       Expenses and Attorneys' Fees related to any Case Unnecessarily 

      or Primarily Delayed by that Attorney's Personal Conduct. . .. 73 

Library, National System ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 74 

Magistrates: 

    Changes in Positions . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 83 

    Legal Manual for. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 86 

    Regulations Setting Forth Standards and 

      Procedures for Appointment of. .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 81 

    Salaries of Full-time. . . . .. .. . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 82 

    Salaries of Part-time ...................................... 82 

    Space Utilization ......................................... 59 

Magistrates System: 

    Changes in Magistrates Positions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 83 

    Committee on, Report of ........... . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 81 

    Legal Manual for U.S. Magistrates ........ , ................. 86 

    Qualification Standards and Selection Procedures .............. 81 

    Salaries of Full-time Magistrates ., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 82 

                                                    116

 Magistrates System (cont'd) 

      Salaries of Part-time Magistrates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 82 

      Study of Magistrates System ........................." . . . . .. 87 

 Manual for United States Magistrates, Legal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 86 

 Memorial Resolutions: 

      Biggs, Honorable John, Jr., on the Death of .................. 106 

      Jones, Honorable William B., on the Death of................. 107 

 Parole Commission, Transfer to the Judicial Branch 

    of the Government. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 74 

 Personnel: 

      Cost of Living Allowances for Serving Outside 

         the Continental United States or Alaska ............•...... , 73 

      Limitations on Salaries of Judge's Staff .......... , . .. . . . . • . .. 75 

 Pretrial Services Agencies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 91 

 Pretermission of Terms of Courts of Appeals...................... 109 

 Probation Information Management System. . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . .• 90 

 Probation System: 

      Committee on, Report of .............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 88 

      Disparity in Sentences .................................... , 89 

      Pretrial Services Agencies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 91 

      Probation Information Management System. . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . .. 90 

     Sentencing Institutes ...................................... 88 

 Protracted Cases, Trial of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 57 

Public Defenders: 

     Code of Conduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 81 

Qualification Standards and Selection Procedures 

   for Magistrates ...................................•.... : . . .. 81 

Resolutions: 

     Biggs, Honorable John, Jr., on the Death of ......•..•........ 106 

     Equal Employment Opportunity ..........•...........                                                58
                                                     0       •       0       0   ••




     Jones, Honorable William Bo, on the Death of.......                                               107
                     0       .0              •••••••




     Standards for Admission to Practice in the Federal Courts ....•.. 103 

Rules of Practice and Procedure: 

     Appellate Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         0   •   0   •   0   0   •   0   •  102

                                                                                                        •   •   •       •       •       •       •       •       0       •   •           •   •       •




     Bankruptcy Rules .............................•....•...... 102 

     Civil Rules ..........................                                 0   ••••••                 Ipt

                                                                                                        0   0   ••••••••••••



     Committee on, Report of .................................. 101 

     Criminal Rules ..................•
Salaries: 

                                                                0   •••••••••••••••••••••••           ,103
                                                                                             .
     Full-time Magistrates ...........................•....•.... J: 82 

     Limitation of Judge's Personel Staff                   0   ••••••                  00      •   •   75

                                                                                                        •   •   •   •       •       •       •       •       •       •       •       •       ••




     Part-time Magistrates .....               0   ••••••••••               0   •••••••••••••••••••     82
                                                                                     ,




Sentences, Disparity in .............                 0   •••••••••••••••••                             89
                 0       •       •       •       •       •       •       •       ••




Sentencing Institutes ..........               0   ••••••••••••••••••                                   88
 0   0   •       •       •       •       •       •       •       •       •       ••




Space and Facilities, Rental of " ...............•...•...                                               S8
                         0       •       0       •••                     0       ••
                                                    117 


Space Utilization ............................................. 59 

Speedy Trial Act of 1974: 

     Report on Administration and Operation of Pre-

        Trial Services Agencies .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 91 

Statistics: 

     Bankruptcy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 55 

     Courts of Appeals ........................................ 55 

     Criminal Justice Act. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 98 

     District Courts ...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 55 

     Intercircuit Assignments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 97 

     Judicial Ethics. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 78 

     National Bureau of Justice. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 60 

Study of the Magistrates System. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . .. . . . .... . .. . . . ... 87 

Veterans' Claims, Judicial Review of. ............................ 66 

Voorhees, Donald S., District Judge, Election to 

  the Board of the Federal Judicial Center ........................ 108 

