          REPORT 

             of the 

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

       UNITED STATES 




         March 7·9, 1979




        Washington, D.C.
             1979
          REPORT 

           ·of the 

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

       UNITED STATES 


                       March 7-9,1979



                     Washington, D.C.
                          1979




   For ••le by thf' Supp.flfttemf.nt 01 Doeumenu.  u.s. GqYO!fnmt-nt 

              Print inc Ottlee. llia.hi"«t",,. D.C. 20402 

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 



        William E. Foley 

            Director 

          THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331

 § 331.   JUDlClIo.L   CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STIo.TES

   The OIief Juslice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of each judicial
circuit, the chief judge of the Coon of Claims, the chief judge of the Court of Customs and Patent
Appeals, and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at s~h time and place in the
United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such conference which shall be known as !he
Judicial Conference of the United States. Special sessions of !he conference may be called by !he
OIief Justice at such times and places as he may designate.
    The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by die circuit and
district judges of !he circuit at !he annual judicial conference of !he circuit held pursuant to section 333
 of !his title and shall serve as a member of !he conference for !hree successive years, except !hal in !he
 year following !he enactment of !his amended section the judges in !he first, fourth. seventh, and ten!h
.circuilS shall choose a district judge to serve for one year, !he judges in !he second. fif!h. and eigh!h
circuits shall choose a district judge 10 serve for two years and !he judges in !he !hird. six!h, nin!h. and
 District of Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for !hree years.
   If !he chief judge of any circuit or !he district judge chosen by !he judges of !he circuit is unable to
attend, !he OIief Justice may summon any o!her circuit or district judge from such circuit. If the chief
judge of !he Court of Claims or !he chief judge of !he Court of Customs and Palent Appeals is unable
to attend, !he OIief Justice may summon an associate judge of such coun. Every judge summoned
shall altC!l1d and, unless excused by the OIief Justice: shall remain !hroughout !he sessions of !he
conference and advise as to !he needs of his circuit or coun and as 10 any maners in respect of which
!he administration of justice in !he courts of !he United States may be improved.
  The conference shall make a comprehensive survey of !he condition of business in !he couns of !he
United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from circuits or districts where
necessary, and shall submit suggestions to !he various couns, in !he interest of unifonnily and
expedition of business.
   The conference shall also carry on a continuous study of !he operation and effect of !he general
rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as prescribed by !he Supreme Coun for !he
olller courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes in and additions to !hose rules as !he
conference may deem desirable to promote simplicity in procedure, fairness in administration. !he
just determination of litigation. and !he elimination of unjustifiable expense and delay shall be
recommended by !he conference from lime 10 time 10 !he Supreme Coun for its consideration and
adoption. modification or rejection, in accordance wi!h law.
   The Attorney General shall. upon request of !he Chief Justice, repon to such conference on mailers
relating to !he business of !he several couns of !he United States, wi!h particular reference to cases to
which !he United States is a party.
  The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual repon of !he proceedings of !he Judicial
Conference and its recommendations for legislation.




                                                 (iv)
                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS 


                           REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

                           OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 

                              OF THE UNITED STATES 


                                          March 7-9, 1979 


                                                                                                       Page
 Call of the Conference. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 

 Report of the Director of the Administrative Office 

   of the United States Courts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 

 Report of the Federal Judicial Center. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ....................... ; .. 4 

Committee on Court Administration ............................ " 4 

      Judicial Tenure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 

      Membership of District Judges on Circuit Councils .............. 6 

      Uniform Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement ....... '" .......... 7 

      Libraries ................................................. 7 

      Associations of District Judges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . .. 8 

      Schedule of Fees in Federal Courts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9 

     Other Fees ...........................................•..•. 12 

      Cost of Living Allowances for Judicial Officers and 

         Employees Serving Outside the Continental United 

        States or in Alaska ....................................... 12 

      Appellate Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court ................... 13 

      Air Disaster Litigation ...................................... 13 

      Virgin Islands Federal Relations Act. ......................... .14 

      Transfer of Cases to Other Courts ............................ 15 

      Salary Limitations on a Judge's Personal Staff .................. 15 

      Reemployed Annuitants ..................................... 15 

     Court Reporters ........................................... 16 

Committee on the Budget ....................................... 17 

     Supplemental Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1979 ........... 17 

      Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1980 ....................... 17 

     Limitations on Salaries of a Judge's Personal Staff .............. 17 

     Space and Facilities ........................................ 18 

     Printing of Opinions ....................................... 18 

Judicial Ethics Committee ....................................... 19 

     Appointment of the Committee ..........•................... 19 

      Reporting Form and Instructions, Rules and 

        ,Regulations ............................................. 20 

     Filing Regulations ......................................... 20 

     Methods of Valuation ...................................... 21 

     Extensions of Time for Filing Reports ......................... 21 

                                                   (v)
       Inspection of Reports ....................................... 22 

       Resolutions Pertaining to the Review Committee ................ 22 

       Applicability of the Code of ludicial Conduct .................. 23 

       Nominees to ludicial Office .................................. 23 

      Advisory Panel ............................................ 23 

 loint Committee on the Code of ludicial Conduct ................... 24 

      Investitive, Ceremonial and Naturalization Proceedings .......... 24 

      Codes of Conduct for Clerks of Court and Probation Officers ..... 2S 

      Participation in Business Corporations ........................ 2S 

      Remitta1 of Disqualification ................................. 26 

 Advisory Committee on ludicial Activities ......................... 26 

 Committee on the Administration of the Federal 

    Magistrates System ........................................... 27 

      Cha~ges in Magistrates Positions ............................. 27 

 Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System ......... 31 

      Salaries and Arrangements for Referees ....................... 32 

      Reporting of Proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court .............. 33 

 Committee on the Administration of the Probation System ........... 34 

      Sentencing Institutes ................ .'....................... 34 

      Protection of Probation Officers .............................. 34 

      Pretrial Services Agencies ................................... 3S 

      Mandatory Retirement ...................................... 36 

 Committee on the Administration of the Criminal Law .............. 36 

      Use ~f the Spanish Language in the United States 

        District Court for the District of Puerto Rico ................. 37 

     Tran.sportation Expenses for Defendants in Criminal Cgses ....... 37 

Committee to Implement the Criminallustice Act .................. 38 

     Appointments and Payments ................................ 38 

     Gra~t Requests-Community Defender Organizations ........... 39 

     Community Defenders-Conditions of a Grant ..........•.....• 39 

     Amendments to Criminal Justice Act Guidelines ...•.....•...... 40 

     Amendments to the Criminal Justice Act ......... ; .••......... 40 

     Assistant Federal Public Defenders-Name Checks .....•...... ~ 41 

Committee on the Operation of the Jury System •........•......•.•. 41 

     Public Drawing ofJuror Names .............................. 41 

     Appointment of Counsel for Jurors ...•..................•.... 42 

     Juries in Bankruptcy Cases .................................. 43 

     Juror Qualification Form.........•..............•.....• "" ... 44 

     Injulies to Jurors ............................•...•... : ...... 4S 

Committee on Intercircgit Assignments .....•...•........•....•.•. 45 

Ad Hoe ~ommittee on the Disposition of Court Records .•......•.•.. 46 

Memori8.I Resolutions .....................•..............•..... 46 

Blection~ .....;................................................ 48 

Pretermission of Terms of the Courts of Appeals.....•....•.......•. 49 

          of
Release· COnference Action •...... " ...•...••.•...•...••... ; ... 4') 



   ---- ._._-'---- _.-_.-.-.- --.---- --_ .._---   ----~-~   ---   ,~~.-;-,-- -   _..   ,-----~,--------~.,   ---. - ... ----.--.~-~~
               Conference of the United States
                                 March 7-9, 1979

         The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on
      March 7, 1979, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
      United States, issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and continued in
      session on March 8 and 9. The Chief Justice presided and the
      following members of the Conference were present:

      First Circuit:
           Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin
           Chief Judge Andrew A. Caffrey, District of Massachusetts
      Second Circuit:
          Chief Judge Irving R. Kaufman
          Chief Judge T. Emmet Clarie, District of Connecticut
      Third Circuit:
          Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz
          Chief Judge Alfred L. Luongo; Eastern District of Pennsylvania
      Fourth Circuit:
          Chief Judge Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr.
i         Judge Charles E. Simons, Jr., District of South Carolina


I
    Fifth Circuit: 

           Chief Judge John R. Brown
I
f .
           Chief Judge William C. Keady, Northern District of Mississippi
      Sixth Circuit:
           Chief Judge GeorgeC. Edwards, Jr. 

           Chief Judge Charles M. Allen, Western District of Kentucky 

      Seventh Circuit:
          Chief Judge Thomas E. Fairchild
          Judge S. Hugh DUHn, Southern District of Indiana
      Eighth Circuit:
          Chief Judge Floyd· R. Gibson
          Chief Judge James H. Meredith, Eastern District of Missouri
      Ninth Circuit:
          Chief Judge lames R. Browning
         .ludge Morell E. Sharp, Western District of Washington
                                   2


Tenth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Oliver Seth 

    Judge Wesley E. Brown, District of Kansas 

District of Columbia Circuit:
     Chief Judge J, Skelly Wright 

     Chief Judge William B. Bryant, District of Columbia 

Court of Claims:
    Chief Judge Daniel M. Friedman
Court of Customs and Patent Appeals:
  - Chief Judge Howard T. Markey
   Circuit Judges Edward A. Tamm and Gerald B. Tjoflat;
Judge. Robert L. Kunzig of the Court of Claims; Senior
District Judge Charles M. Metzner; and District Judges C.
Clyde Atkins, Oliver Gasch, Alexander Harvey II, Elmo B.
Hunter, Robert E. Maxwell, and Edward Weinfeld, attended
all or some of the sessions of the Conference.
   The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable
Griffin B. Bell, accompanied by the Solicitor General, Hon­
orable Wade H. McCree, attended the morning session of the
first day of the Conference and addressed the Conference
briefly on matters of mutual interest to the Department of
Justice and the Conference.                              _
   William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office"'of
the United States Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
Director; James E. Macklin, Jr., Assistant Director; and
Mark VI, Cannon, Administrative Assistant to the Chief
Justice, attended all sessions of the Conference.
   The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo Levin,
reported on the activities of the Center since the last session
of the Conference.


               REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR 

            OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

            OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 


  The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, Mr. William E. Foley, submitted to the Confer­
ence a brief report on the caseloads of the United States
courts during the calendar year 1978. Mr. Foley reported that
                               3


 appeals docketed in the courts of appeals increased from
 18,948 in 1977 to 19,471 in 1978, an increase of 2.8 percent.
 Appeals were terminated at a slightly higher rate (.8 percent)
than the previous year, but were less than filings. As a result,
appeals pending on the dockets of the courts of appeals
climbed to an all-time high of 17,771 on December 31, 1978,
an increase of 8.2 percent.
   During the calendar year 1978 there were 144,212 new civil
cases docketed in the United States district courts, a 6.6 per­
cent increase over the previous year. Civil cases disposed of
climbed 10.5 percent to a record 134,248 cases, but disposi­
tions were almost 10,000 cases less than the number filed. As
a result the pending civil caseload in the district courts grew
6.1 percent to a record 173,827 cases pending on December
31, 1978.
   During 1978 there were 33,573 criminal cases docketed in
the district courts, 4,702 cases fewer than the previous year.
Criminal cases disposed of in the district courts during the
year declined 19.1 percent, but exceeded new filings by four
cases. On December 31, 1978 there were 16,123 criminal
cases pending on the dockets of the district courts.
  In 1978 there were 208,278 new bankruptcy cases filed in
the district courts, compared with 208,433 filed in 1977.
There were 209,082 bankruptcy cases closed, and the pending
caseload declined slightly to 244,753 on December 31, 1978.


    REPORT OF THE FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER

  The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo Levin,
reported to the Conference that the Center has developed
plans to conduct seminars for the new judges to be appointed
under the Omnibus Judgeship Act. The Center is also plan­
ning to send various informative materials to all new judges
at the time of their appointment and in advance of the
seminars. Director Levin also reported that the Center is
progressing with the COURTRAN system of record keeping
in the district courts and is expanding the system to include
applications in the courts of appeals.
                               4


  JUDICIAL PANEL ON MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION

   The report submitted on behalf of the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation indicated that the Panel had con­
ducted four hearings during the six-month period ending
December 31. 1978 and had issued 33 main orders. most of
which were accompanied by opinions of the Panel. The Panel
has acted on 14 new groups of multidistrict litigation cases in
the last six months and has ordered transfers in eight groups
encompassing 60 civil actions. Of these, 24 actions were trans­
ferred for purposes of pretrial procedure and 36 were actions
originally filed in the transferee districts. The Panel denied
transfers in six groups of cases consisting of 24 actions. In
addition, 202 other cases were transferred by the Panel as
tag-along cases for inclusion in on-going proceedings. Since
the establishment of the Panel in 1968 there have been 6.738
civiJ actions centralized in pretrial proceedings under 28
U.S.C. 1407 .


     . COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

 Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration. presented the Committee. report.


                       JUDICIAL TENURE

   The Conference in September 1978 (Conf. Rept .. p. SO) di­
rected the Committee to conduct a study to determine whether
legislation is necessary to clarify the powers of the Judicial
Councils of the Circuits to adopt procedures for the examina­
tion of judicial conduct in cases where it is warranted and I to
take appropriate action with respect to such instances. Judge
Hunter submitted for Conference consideration amendments
to 28 U.S.C. 332, drafted by the Committee, to provide for
circuit council consideration of complaints involving judicial
misconduct.
   After full discussion the Conference agreed that the Judi­
cial Councils of the Circuits should be involved in the examina­
tion of complaints relating to judicial conduct and that the
                                  5


procedure should be ,formalized. The Conference thereupon
adopted the following resolution:
    1. The Judical Conference of the United States expresses its
    approval of the following principles to be reflected in any legis­
    lation dealing with procedures for inquiries into the conduct
    of Federal judges:
       (a) Removal of an Article III judge from office by any 

       method other than impeachment as provided in Article I of 

       the Constitution would raise grave constitutional questions 

       which should be avoided. 

       (b) The primary responsibility for dealing with a complaint 

       against a United States judge should rest initially with the 

       chief judge of the circuit as presiding judge of the Judicial 

       Council, who may dismiss the complaint if it is frivolous or 

       relates to the merits of a decision or procedural ruling, or 

       may close the complaint after assuring himself that appro­

       priate corrective action has been taken. 

      (c) Any complaint not dismissed or closed by the presiding 

      judge should be referred to a committee appointed by the 

      presiding judge, consisting of an equal number of circuit 

      and district judges and the presiding judge. 

      (d) The joint committee should report its findings and 

      recommendations to the Judicial Council, which should take 

      such action as is appropriate to assure the effective and 

      expeditious administration of the business of the courts 

      within the circuit. 

      (e) The Judicial Council may, in its discretion, refer a com­

      plaint and the Council's recommended action to the Judicial 

      Conference of the United States. 

      (0 If the Judicial Council concludes that grounds for im­

      peachment may exist, it should transmit the record upon 

      which its conclusion is based to the Judicial Conference of 

      the United States; the Judicial Conference shall then deter­

      mine whether, in all the circumstances, the matter should be 

      referred to the House of Representatives, 

   2. The Judicial Conference recommends that the Judicial
   Councils of the several circuits. at their earliest opportunity,
   consider the formulation and promulgation of rules of proce­
   dure for the receipt and processing of complaints against
   judges in accordance with the principles expressed in paragraph
   1; such rules and regulations should be announced in such
   manner as to assure that the public and the bar will be in­
   formed.
                                   6

    3. The Chairmari of the Court Administration Committee and
    the members of the Executive Committee of the Conference
    are directed (1) to review and revise, in accordance with the
    principles stated in paragraph 1, the Court Administration
    Committee's proposed amendments to 28 V.S.c. §332, and
    (2) to transmit the revised proposed amendments to all mem­
    bers of the Conference for their approval. Following approval
    by the Conference, the Chairman of the Court Administration
    Committee, if called upon by the Congress to testify upon
    pending legislation. is authorized to inform the Congress that,
    if legislative action is to be taken, the Conference recommends
    amendments to 28 V.S.c. §332 as approved by the Conference
    in accordance with this paagraph.
    4. All previous Judicial Conference resolutions or comments
    upon legislation dealing with the conduct of Federal judges are
    superseded by this resolution.

              MEMBERSHIP OF DISTRICT JUDGES ON 

                     CIRCUIT COUNCILS 


  Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the Com­
mittee, in considering proposed amendments to 28 U.S.c.
332, had made provision for the inclusion of district judges
as members of the Judicial Councils of the Circuits. The
Conference, after full discussion, concluded that district
judges should be represented on the Judicial Councils of the
Circuits and adopted the following resolution:
    The Judicial Conference of the Vnited States expresses its ap­
    proval of the following principles to be reflected in any legisla­
    tion dealing with the membership of the Judicial Councils of
    the Circuits:
       1. Any Judicial Council having less than six circuit judges
       as members shall have, as members, not less than two
       district judges in regular active service.
       2. Any Circuit Council having six or more circuit judges as
       members shall have. as members. not less than three district
       judges in regular active service.
       J. The number of district judge members of a Judicial Council. .
       fixed in accordance with the above principles. shall be fixed
       by majority vote of the active circuit judges of the Council.
       4. District judges shall serve as members of a Judicial Coun­
       cil in the order of their seniority. for terms of three years.
       5. No more than one district judge from anyone district
                                     7

        shall serve simultaneously on the Circuit Council, unless
        there is already a representative on the Council from each
        district in the circuit.

         UNIFORM RULES OF DISCIPLINARY ENFORCEMENT

   At its session in September 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 42) the
Conference approved model rules of disciplinary enforcement
and authorized their distribution to all circuit and district
courts with a recommendation that they be adopted by these
courts on an optional basis. Recently, concern has been ex·
pressed about the provisions of Rules XI and XII requiring
every attorney practicing in a Federal court to pay an annual
fee into a fund to be administered centrally 1;ly the Adminis­
trative Office of the United States Courts. Some courts have
already adopted the recommended rules without including any
provision for the payment of an annual attorney's fee.
   Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the Committee
is now of the view that the collection of fees should be left to
the discretion of each court and that any fees collected should
be retained in a fund to be administered locally by each court.
Upon recommendation of the Committee the Conference ap­
proved the following notes to be shown under the present
headings for Rules XI and XII in lieu of the original text.
Rule XI
     Periodic Assessment of Attorneys: Registration Statements
     Note: 	 Each Court shall make such provisions as it deems ad­
             visable for the assessment and registration of attorneys.
             Any fees collected should be maintained in a separate
             fund held by the Clerk of Court, as trustee, for the pay­
             ment, pursuant to Rule XII, of expenditures incurred,
             and not on behalf of the United States.
Rule XII
     Payment ofFees and Costs
     Note: 	 Each Court may make such provision as it deems ad­
             visable for the payment of fees and costs incurred in the
             course of a disciplinary investigation or prosecution.


                               LIBRARIES

  The report of the Board of the Federal Judicial Center for
improving libraries and research services in the Federal
                                     8


courts recommended the creation of the position of Director
of Federal Court Libraries in the Administrative Office. The
position has been created and was recently filJed by a profes­
sionallaw librarian who for several months has been studying
Federal court libraries and consulting with court personnel.
In order to assist the Director of Libraries in working toward
better central library facilities and to improve the list of law
books regularly furnished to new judges, as approved by the
Conference in September 1964 (Conf. Rept., p. 5), the Con­
ference, upon recommendation of the Committee, adopted
the following resolution:
         In furtherance of prior policy statements regarding the
      furnishing of adequate library facilities for Federal judges, the
      Judicial Conference authorizes the Director of the Administra­
      tive Office to take such action as necessary to provide judges
      and other court personnel with all legal research material and
      services necessary to fulfill their functions. In so doing, he
      shall endeavor to establish and maintain well-organized, ade­
     quate and professionally administered central libraries when
     such would facilitate essential sharing of materials and ensure
      the efficient use of appropriated funds. He shall provide law­
      books, other legal research materials and services for chambers
     libraries after having given due consideration to the availability
     of central library facilities and after having allowed flexibility
     and latitude to the end that the lawbook requirements of
     chambers libraries may be satisfied.
         The Judicial Conference further authorizes the Chairman
     of the Committee on Court Administration to designate three
     judges of that Committee to constitute an ad hoc group with
     which the Director of the Administrative Office may consult
     informally to resolve, on a continuing basis, policy matters re­
     lated to the creation, maintenance and administration of
     libraries.


                ASSOCIATIONS OF DISTRICT JUDGES

  Judge Hunter advised the Conference that the Ninth Cir­
cuit District Judges Association had adopted a resolution
calling for the statutory recognition of associations of district
judges and an authorization for the payment of expenses to
attend association meetings. The Committee reported that it
could find no justification for such legislation, particularly in
                                    9


view of the number of associations representing other cate­
gories of members of the court family which would also call
for recognition. Upon recommendation of the Committee the
Conference disapproved the proposal.

             SCHEDULE OF FEES IN FEDERAL COURTS

   The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1913 and 1914(b),
is authorized to prescribe the fees and costs to be charged
and collected in each United States court of appeals, and the
fees, in addition to statutory filing fees, to be charged and
collected in each United States district court. The fee
schedules prescribed by the Conference have not been re­
viewed since September 1973 (Conf. Rept., p. 44). In addition,
the new Bankruptcy Act requires the Conference to prescribe
the miscellaneous fees to be charged in bankruptcy courts
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1930.
   Judge Hunter submitted to the Conference revised schedules
of fees to be charged and collected in the courts of appeals
and district courts, and a new miscellaneous fee schedule for
bankruptcy courts. Upon the recommendation of the Com­
mittee, the Conference approved the foJJowing fee schedules
to become effective October I, 1979:

    Judicial Conference Schedule of Fees for 

    United States Courts ofAppeals 


            Fees to be paid to clerks of courts of appeals (except that no
         fees are to be charged for service~ rendered on behalf of the
         United States).
            1. 	 For docketing a case on appeal or review, or docketing
                 any other proceeding-S65.00. A separate fee shall be
                 paid by each party filing a notice of appeal in the district
                 court, but parties filing a joint notice of appeal in the
                 district court are required to pay only one fee. A docket­
                 ing fee shall not be charged for the docketing of an ap­
                 plication for the allowance of an interlocutory appeal
                 under 28 U.S.C. I 292(b). unless the appeal is allow­
                 ed.
            2. For every search of the records of the court and certifying
                the results thereof, S2.00.
            3. For certifying any document. or paper, whether the cer­
                                10 


             tification is made directly on the document, or by separate
             instrument, $2.00.
        4. 	 For reproducing any record or paper, 50 cents per page.
             This fee does not include certification.
        5. For comparing with the original thereof any copy of any
             transcript of record, entry, record or paper, when such
             copy is furnished by any person requesting certification,
             $2.00 per page or fraction thereof. This fee is in addition
             to the fee for certification.
        6. For reproduction of magnetic tape audio recordings, either
             cassette or reel-to-reel, $2.00 plus the cost of materials,
             minimum charge $5.00.
        7. 	 For reproduction of the record in any appeal in which
             the requirement of an appendix is dispensed with by any
             court of appeals pursuant to Rule 30(0, Federal Rules of
             Appellate Procedure, a flat fee of $25.00.
       8. Fees to be charged and collected for copies 	of opinions
             shall be fixed, from time to time, by each court, com­
             mensurate with the cost of printing.
        No other fees for miscellaneous services than those prescribed
     by the Judicial Conference of the United States shall be charged
     or collected by any clerk of court.                               c~

Judicial Conference Schedule ofAdditional
Fees for the United States District Courts
        Fees to be charged for services performed by clerks of the
     district courts (except that no fees are to be charged for
     services rendered on behalf of the United States).
        1. For filing or indexing any paper not in a case or proceeding
            for which a case filing fee has been paid, $3.00. This fee
            is applicable to the filing of a petition to perpetuate testi·
            mony, Rule 27(a), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the
            filing of papers by trustees under 28 U .S.C. 754, and the
            fiiing of letters rogatory or letters of request, except th~t
            the fee for registering a judgment from another district
            pursuant to 28 U.S.c. 1963 shall be $10.00.                 ,
       2. 	 For filing a requisition for and certifying the results of a
            search of the records of the court for judgments, decrees,
            other instruments, suits pending, and bankruptcy
            proceedings, $2.00 for each name searched.
       3. For certifying any document or paper, whether the cer­
            tification is made directly on the document or by separate
            instrument, $2.00.
                              11 


        4. 	 For reproducing any record or paper, 50 cents per page.
             This fee does not include certification.
        5. 	 For comparing with the original thereof any copy of any
             transcript of record, entry, record or paper, when such
             copy is furnished by any person requesting certification,
             52.00 per page or fraction thereof. This fee is in addition
             to the fee for certification.
       6. For 	 reproduction of magnetic tape audio recordings,
             either cassette or reel-to-reel, 52.00 plus the cost of
             materials, minimum charge 55.00.
        7. 	 For admission of attorneys to practice, 515.00 each,
             including a certificate of admission. For a duplicate cer­
             tificate of admission or certificate of good standing,
              53.00.
        No other fees for miscellaneous services than those prescribed
     by the Judicial Conference of the United States shall be charged
     or collected by any clerk of court.

Judicial Conference Schedule of Additional Fees
for United States Bankruptcy Courts

       Services to be performed by clerks of the bankruptcy courts
     (except that no fees are to be charged for services rendered
     on behalf of the United States).
       1. 	 For reproducing any record or paper 50 cents per page.
            This fee does not include certification.
       2. 	 For certifying any document or paper, whether the cer­
            tification is made directly on the document or by separate
            instrument, 52.00.
       2. 	 For comparing with the original thereof any copy of any
            transcript of record, entry, record or paper, when
            such copy is furnished by any person requesting cer­
            tification, 52.00 per page or fraction thereof. This fee is
            in addition to the fee for certification ..
       4. 	 For reproduction of magnetic tape audio recordings,
            either cassette or reel-to-reel; 52.00 plus the cost of ma­
            terials, minimum charge 55.00.
       5. For amendments to a debtor's schedules or lists of credi­
            tors after notice to creditors, 510.00 for each amend­
            ment, provided the bankruptcy judge may, for good
            cause, waive the charge in any case.
       6. For every search of the records of the bankruptcy court
            conducted by the clerk of the bankruptcy court or one of
            his deputies, 52.00 per name or item searched.
                                   12 


            7. For instituting 	any civil action, suit or proceeding in a
                 controversy over which the bankruptcy court does not
                 have exclusive jurisdiction, whether by original process,
                 removal or otherwise, $60.00; for filing a complaint in
                 a controversy over which the court has exclusive jurisdic·
                 tion, $15.00.
                 If the United States, other than the United States Trustee
                 acting as trustee in a case under Title II, is the plaintiff,
                 no fee is required.
                 If the trustee in a case under Title II is the plaintiff, the
                 fee shall be payable only from the estate and to the extent
                 there is any estate.
            S. 	 For filing or indexing any paper not in a case or proceeding
                 for which a filing fee has been paid, $3.00, except that the
                 fee for registering a judgment from another district shall
                 be $10.00.

                             OTHER FEES

  At its April 1973 session (Conf. Rept., p. 4) the Conference
approved in principle legislation which would place the fixing
of fees in all proceedings in the courts of the United States
under the control of the Judicial Conference in order to
pennit frequent review and greater flexibility. The Conference
reaffirmed its approval in principle of this legislation and
authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to pre­
pare appropriate legislation to be transmitted to the Congress.


         COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCES FOR JUDICIAL
       OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES SERVING OUTSIDE THE
         CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES OR IN ALASKA

   S. 3008, 95th Congress, would authorize an allowance basetl.
upon; living costs for judicial officers and employees servipg
outside the continental United States or in Alaska. The bill
would provide a non-taxable allowance to officers and em­
ployees serving in these courts similar to allowances given to
officers and employees in the Executive Branch of Govern­
ment. Judicial employees now receive a cost-of-living allow­
ance which is taxable, but judicial officers do not receive any
allowance.
                               13 


   The Committee recommended that, as a matter of equity,
 officers and employees in the Judicial Branch of Government
 should receive the same cost-of-living allowances provided in
 the Executive Branch to officers and employees serving outside
 the continental United States or in Alaska. This recommen­
 dation was approved by the Conference.

       ApPELLATE JURISDICTION OF THE SUPREME COURT

   S. 3100, 95th Congress, would eliminate direct appeals to
the Supreme Court from decisions of Federal courts invali­
dating Acts of Congress [28 U.S.C. 1252]; appeals from deci­
sions of courts of appeals invalidating state statutes [28
U.S.C. 1254(a)]; appeals from decisions of state courts in­
validating treaties or statutes of the United States [28 U.S.C.
1257(1)], or sustaining the validity of state statutes challenged
on Federal constitutional or statutory grounds [28 U.S.C.
1257(2)]; and appeals from the Supreme Court of the Com­
monwealth of Puerto Rico [28 U.S.C. 1258]. The bill would
also eliminate appeals under three other statutes: the Federal.
Election Campaign Act of 1971, [2 U.S.c. 437h]; Indian
Claims, [28 U.S.c. 652]; and the Trans-Alaska Pipeline
Authorization Act [43 U .S.C. 1652(d)]. Jurisdiction of these
matters would continue in the Supreme Court on a writ of
certiorari. Upon recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved the bill.

                   AIR DISASTER LITIGATION

    The Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee had. re­
 quested the views of the Conference on H.R. 10917, 95th
 Congress, a bill to create a uniform body of law governing
 liability for "injury to or loss of property or any personal in­
 jury or death" arising out of aviation activity and to improve
 procedures for litigating controversies arising out of airline
.disasters.
    The bill would require a common carrier to exercise "the
 highest degree of care for the safety of its passengers"; adopt
 the rule of comparative fault; provide a right of contribution;
 specify the rights of surviving spouses, children, parents, or
                                 14 


  dependent relatives; permit the awarding of damages for
   pecuniary losses including "loss of care, comfort, and society
  sustained by those for whose benefit the right of action exists,"
  but not "pain, suffering or disfigurement"; and require that
  actions arising under the bill be brought generally within a
   period of two years. The district courts would be given juris­
  diction, concurrent with state courts, of civil actions involving
  "large," "high-performance," "public," or "common carrier
  aircraft," involving the United States, or reSUlting in the deaths
  of five or more persons. State courts would be given exclusive
  jurisdiction over all other actions involving aviation activity.
     It was the view of the Committee that it is inappropriate
  for the judiciary to comment on the provisions of the bill re­
  lating to the duty of care to be imposed upon common carriers,
  the measure of damages and the appropriate statute of limita­
  tions. The Committee did note various provisions of the bill
  which concerned the Committee and others which require re­
  drafting.
     Upon the recommendation of the Committee the Conference
. endorsed the two principal objectives of the bill to create a
  coherent body of aviation law and to provide a less cumber­
  some means of litigating cases arising out of a common airline
  disaster. but disapproved the provision of the bill authorizing
  the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation to transfer cases
  for trial purposes. The Committee was authorized to com­
  municate its views regarding particular provisions of the
  biJI to the appropriate Committees of the Congress and to
  work with Congressional Committees on the bill.


            VIRGIN ISLANDS FEDERAL RELATIONS        ACT
    Anticipating a favorable vote on a new Constitution for
 the Peoples of the Virgin Islands. the Committee rec.om­
 mended that any bill defining the relationship between' t.he
 local courts of the Virgin Islands and the federal courts in­
 clude these provisions: (1) that the District Court of the Virgin
 Islands specifically be given jurisdiction in diversity of citizen­
 ship cases, as well as Federal question cases; (2) that its
 name be changed from the "District Court of the Virgin
 Islands" to the "United States District Court for the Virgin
                               15 


Islands"; and (3) that decisions of the Supreme Court of the
Virgin Islands be reviewed by the United States Court of Ap­
peals for the Third Circuit rather than by the Supreme Court
of the United States. The Conference approved the recom­
mendations of the Committee.

            TRANSFER OF CASES TO OTHER COURTS

    In March 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 11) the Conference ap­
proved a recommendation of the Committee that provision be
made by statute for the transfer of a case from one Federal
court to another, in the event the case was not properly filed
in the first court, and authorized the Director of the Admin­
istrative Office to draft a suitable bill for transmittal to the
Congress. Subsequently, H.R. 11276 was introduced in the
95th Congress which would provide only for tht! transfer of
cases between a court of appeals and a district court. The
Conference approved the Committee's recommendation that
this proposal be amended to provide that a case improperly
filed in any Federal court shall, in the interest of justice, be
transferred to any other Federal court in which it could have
been filed and that the case proceed in that court as though
it had originally been filed there.

      SALARY LIMITATIONS ON A JUDGE'S PERSONAL STAFF

   The Committee submitted two resolutions pertaining to the
statutorily im posed monetary limitation on the aggregate
salaries of a judge's personal staff. The first resolution would
limit the use of these funds to the purposes for which they
were provided, and the second resolution would increase the
limitation to permit an increase in salary for the second secre­
tary to a chief judge of a district court having five or more
judgeships. Both resolutions were returned to the Committee
for further study in consultation with the Committee on the
Budget and in the light of the discussions in the Conference.

                  REEMPLOYED ANNUITANTS

  The Conference in March 1959 (Conf. Rept .• p. 295) ap­
proved a policy generally limiting the appointment of a re­
                                    16 


employed annuitant to a period not to exceed one year. This
limitation was later increased to a period of 18 months. It
was brought to the attention of the Conference that this policy
of imposing an administratively determined limitation on the
hiring of reemployed ·annuitants may conflict with the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act Amendments of 1978
which eliminated mandatory retirement at age 70 for all
government employees. The Conference thereupon adopted
the following resolution submitted by the Committee:
        In view of the elimination of mandatory retirement at age 70
     for Federal employees, the Conference resolves that all restric­
     tions on the term of appointments of reemployed annuitants,
     except for employees covered under hazardous duty retirement,
     are removed and made consistent with prevailing laws and
     practices.


                         COURT REPORTERS

   Judge Hunter informed the Conference that two provisions
relating to qualification criteria for salary adjustments for
court reporters appear too restrictive, since they recognize for
purposes of salary adjustments only a certificate from the Na­
tional Shorthand Reporters Association. In order to broaden
the qualification criteria for salary adjustments, Judge Hunter
recommended, and the Conference approved, the following
amendments to the first two paragraphs of the criteria ap­
proved by the Conference in September 1977 (Conf. Rept., p.
55):
       '(a) An applicant for appointment, hereafter, as an official
    court reporter in a United States district court shall possess as
    a minimum requirement at least four years of prime court re­
    porting experience in the free lance field of service or in other •
    courts or a combination thereof, and have qualified by testing
    for listing on the registry of professional reporters of the Na- I, ,
    tiona! Shorthand Reporters Association or passed an equivalent
    qualifying examination.                                           ,,'
        (2) All official court reporters who have satisfactorily met
    the qualification requirements outlined in (1) above who, in
    addition, possess a Certificate of Merit from the National
    Shorthand Reporters Association or have passed an equivalent
    examination shall receive as a salary a starting salary for court
                                  17

     reporters set by the Judicial Conference, plus a five percent
     meritorious increase over that starting salary.


              COMMIITEE ON THE BUDGET
  The report of the Committee on the Budget was submitted
by the Chairman of the Committee, Chief Judge Robert E.
Maxwell.

 SUPPLEMENTAL ApPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR                1979
  Judge Maxwell informed the Conference that requests for
supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year 1979 to cover
the general salary increase of 5.5 percent granted last October,
and to cover increased costs resulting from new legislation,
had been submitted to the Congress. The supplemental re­
quests totalled $44,385,000. The Congressional committees
have been advised that if there is a delay in the appointment
of judges under the Omnibus Judgeship Act, a reduction in
the request for supplemental appropriations would be appro­
priate.

          ApPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR           1980
   Judge Maxwell also informed the Conference that the
budget estimates for the fiscal year 1980, approved by the
Conference last September, had been amended to take into
account the impact of new legislation. Upon the recommen­
dation of the Committee, the Director of the Administrative
Office was authorized to submit to the Congress either a
budget amendment or a request for supplemental appropria­
tions for the fiscal year 1980 required for the implementation
of any action taken by the Conference, for any new legislation,
or for any other reason he considers necessary and appro­
priate.

   LIMITATIONS ON SALARIES OF A JUDGE'S PERSONAL STAFF

  The budget request for the fiscal year 1980 included funds
for the appointment of a third law clerk and a second secre­
                                18 


 tary by a circuit judge, the appointment of a second law clerk
 by a district judge in lieu of a crier or crier-law clerk, and the
 reclassification of a law clerk from grade JSP-12 to grade
 JSP-13, if qualification standards are met. As a result,
 changes will be required in the language of the Appropriations
 Act increasing the amount of the limitation on the aggregate
salaries paid to the personal staff of a judge.
   Judge Maxwell reported that these limitations were dis­
cussed at the recent congressional hearings and that the
Committee had suggested that the limitation language be
stricken from the Appropriations Act, since it applies only to
circuit and district judges and not to other judges and judicial
officers. If the limitation is removed, the Conference would
prescribe the criteria and exercise control over the number of
secretaries and law clerks to be employed by circuit and dis­
trict judges, in addition to controlling classification and quali­
fication standards.
   The Conference endorsed the action taken by the Budget
Committee in requesting deletion of the limitation language
and authorized the Subcommittee on Supporting Personnel
to consider the criteria for determining the number of law
clerks and secretaries that may be employed by circuit and
district judges, in addition to determining the classification
and qualification standards to be applied under the Judiciary
Salary Plan.
                     SPACE AND FACILITIES

   At the request of Judge Maxwell, the Conference authorized
the Budget Committee to take such action as may be appro­
priate to preclude the imposition of any moratorium or restric­
tion on the acquisition of space for the courts, particularly
with regard to the requirements of new judges, by the Office
of Management and Budget or by the General Services Ad:
ministration, on the basis that such control over expenditures,
by the Executive Branch of the Government constitutes a vio- '
lation of the separation of powers d o c t r i n e . '
                     PRINTING OF OPINIONS

 The Director of the Administrative Office, upon recom­
mendation of the Committee, was authorized to study and ex­
                              19 


plore the feasibility and desirability of printing opinions for
the courts of appeals under contract with less costly facilities
within or outside the geographical boundaries of a court, if
the printing and distribution of opinions can be accomplished
on a timely basis.


             JUDICIAL ETHICS COMMITIEE

  Judge Edward A. Tamm, Chairman of the Judicial Ethics
Committee, presented the report of the Committee.

              ApPOINTMENT OF THE COMMITTEE

   The Ethics in Government Act of 1971, Public Law 95-521,
approved October 26, 1978, established a government-wide
financial disclosure reporting system applicable to officers
and high-ranking executives serving in the Legislative, Execu­
tive and Judicial Branches of Government. The Act requires
the, appointment of a Judicial Ethics Committee in the Judicial
Branch of Government to receive and review the financial dis­
closure reports required to be submitted under the Act and to
perform other prescribed duties. Judge Tamm informed the
Conference that subsequent to the passage of the Act, the
Chief Justice, with Conference approval, had named the
members of the former Review Committee of the Judicial
Conference to serve initially as the new Judicial Ethics Com­
mittee.
   The, Act requires each justice and judge of the United States
to file an annual financial disclosure report with the Judicial
Ethics Committee and with the clerk of court. A similar re­
port is required to be filed by "any employee of the Judicial
Branch of Government who is authorized to perform adjudica­
tory functions with respect to the judicial branch or who re­
ceives compensation at a rate at or in excess of the minimum
rate prescribed for grade 16 of the General Schedule ..."
The annual report must be filed on or before May 15th of
each year by an individual who served 60 days or more during
the preceding calendar year. In addition to the annual report,
a nominee to a judgeship position must file a report within
five days of nomination, and a judicial employee must file a
                                   20 


report within 30 days of assuming a position that requires re­
porting. A report is also required to be filed within 30 days
after termination of employment.
   Each reporting individual is also required to include as
part of his report certain financial information pertaining
to the spouse and dependent children.

        REPORTING FORM AND INSTRUCTIONS, RULES AND 

                      REGULATIONS 

    .
   The Committee submitted to the Conference a draft Finan­
cial Disclosure Form and the Instructions, Rules and Regula­
tions, devised by the Committee, for the annual report due
on. May 15th. Judge Tamm informed the Conference that in
view of a perceived need for reporting individuals to have
these materials available at an early date, the Committee had
requested the Administrative Office to print and distribute
the Committee-approved form and the Instructions, Rules
and Regulations as soon as possible. The Conference ratified
the action taken by the Committee and approved the reporting
form and the accompanying Instructions, Rules and Regula­
tions, with the understanding that a reporting individual may
indicate a business address on the reporting. form, rather
than a home address.

                        FILING REGULATIONS

   The Act requires that the original of the financial disclosure
report be filed with the Judicial Ethics Committee and that a
copy thereof be filed with the clerk of court in which the re­
porting individual serves. The reports are public documents.
For administrative purposes the Committee is requiring that
the original and one copy be filed with the Committee. Upon'
recommendation of the Committee, the Conference took the
following action with respect to other filing requirements:      .
    (A) 	That officers and employees of the Administrative Office
         and the Federal Judicial Center file their reports only with
         the Committee and not with any clerk of court;
    (B) 	That bankruptcy judges file two copies of their reports
         with the Committee and one copy with the clerk of the
         district courts, until such time as clerks of bankruptcy
                                  21

         courts are appointed under the new Bankruptcy Act; and
     (C) 	That part-time bankruptcy judges and part-time United
         States magistrates. who do not work in excess of 60 days,
         in the reporting calendar year and so certify in writing
         to the Committee. not be required to file financial dis­
         closure reports.


                     METHODS OF VALUATION

   The Act requires the Committee, with the approval of the
Judicial Conference, to "promulgate a regulation establishing
a method or methods for readily determining, without the
necessity of expert appraisal, the fair market value of assets
required to be disclosed ..." Judge Tamm informed the
Conference that the instructions for executing the reporting
form set forth eight alternate methods of determining valua­
tion. Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
approved these options as the regulations of the Committee
for determining valuation.


           EXTENSIONS OF TIME FOR FILING REPORTS

   The Act provides that "reasonable extensions of time for
filing any report may be granted under procedures prescribed
by the Judicial Ethics Committee ... but the total of such
extensions shall not exceed 90 days." The Committee recom­
mended that in circumstances other than extreme emergencies
a request for an extension of time to file a report must be
submitted at least 30 days prior to the date on which the re­
port is due and that the request be submitted in writi~g ad­
dressed to the Chairman of the Judicial Ethics Committee.
This procedure was approved by the Conference.


               GIFTS OF BOOKS AND PERIODICALS

  The Conference approved the recommendation of the Com­
mittee that gifts of books and periodicals received by judicial
officers and judicial employees for official use, and so used
for official purposes, not be reported as gifts.
                                  22

                      INSPECTION OF REPORTS

   The Act provides that a copy of the financial disclosure re­
 port filed with the clerk of court is a "public document."
Judge Tamm informed the Conference that the Committee
believes that each court should decide on its own how these
reports are to be filed in the clerk's office and the manner in
which they should be made available to the public for inspec­
tion and copying.
   The Act also requires the Committee, within 15 days after
any report is received, to "permit inspection by or furnish a
copy of such report to any person requesting such inspection
or copy." Judge Tamm reported that the Committee has
developed an orderly procedure for handling requests to in­
spect or copy reports which involves the use of a request
form. As a matter of policy the Committee will not notify a
reporting individual that a request has been made to inspect
his report unless requested to do so by the repdrting individual
and only with respect to requests previously made. At the re­
quest of the Committee these procedures were approved by
the Conference.
   The Conference also approved a fee of 25 cents per page to
be charged by the Ethics Committee for furnishing a copy of
a document. The discretion given to the Committee to waive
the copy fee will be exercised by the Chairman.

    RESOLUTIONS PERTAINING TO THE REVIEW COMMITTEE

  Since the Conference-approved program of financial re­
porting and disclosure, adopted in March 1970, has now
been superseded by the new Act, the Conference rescinded
the foHowing resolutions pertaining exclusively to the Review
Committee:
    I. The March 	1970 resolution requiring financial reporting by
         all federal judges (Conf. Rept .• p. 6),
    2. 	 The March 1971 resolution establishing a procedure for re- ,
         porting the names of judges who failed to report (Conf.
         Rept., p. 24).
    3. The October 	1971 resolution authorizing the Review Com­
         mittee to suggest to a reporting judge that he make in­
         quiry to the Advisory Committee (Conf. Rept .. p. 68).
                                    23

     4. 	 The October 1972 resolution extending the reporting re­
          quirement to full-time magistrates and full-time referees in
          bankruptcy (Conf. Rept., p. 42).
     5. The March 1977 resolution extending the reporting require­
          ment to certain other officers and employees of the Federal
          Judiciary (Conf. Rept., p. 12).
     6. 	 The September 1977 resolution extending the reporting
          requirement to certain public defenders (Conf. Rept .• p.
          59).
     7. The March 1978 resolution directing 	that the reasons for
          non-filing not be included in public reports (Conf. Rept.
          p. 14).


       ApPLICABILITY OF THE CODE OF JUDICIAL CONDUCT

   The Committee perceived that situations may arise in
which the provisions of the Code of Judicial Conduct for
United States Judges may appear to vary from the standards
established under the new Ethics in Government Act .. The
Conference agreed with the recommendation of the Commit­
tee, that, if this should occur, the stricter standard, whether
in the Code or in the Act, should apply.

                  NOMINEES TO JUDICIAL OFFICE

     To avoid the necessity of prescribing a separate form to be
  filed by judicial nominees, the Conference approved the use
  of the form prescribed by the Office of Government Ethics
  for nominees to positions in the Executive Branch of Govern­
. ment for the reports required of judicial nominees.

                          ADVISORY PANEL

  The Conference authorized the Chief Justice to appoint an
Advisory Panel of the Conference to respond to requests from
reporting individuals for advice and assistance on problems
relating to reporting under the Ethics in Government Act of
1978, so as to insure, insofar as possible, uniformity in re­
porting under the Act. The Director of the Administrative
Office was authorized to provide support for the Advisory
Panel and to incur obligations for this purpose.
                                 24 


  Judge Tamm informed the Conference that the Judicial
Ethics Committee would consider granting extensions of time,
up to 90 days, to individuals who request such extensions
pending action by the Advisory Panel on any request for an
opinion or advice.       .

            JOINT COMMITTEE ON THE CODE 

                 OF JUDICIAL CONDUCT 

  The report of the Joint Committee on the Code of Judicial
Conduct, chaired by Judges Edward A. Tamm and William
B. Jones, was presented by Judge Tamm.
        INVESTITIVE, CEREMONIAL AND NATURALIZATION 

                        PROCEEDINGS 


   The Conference in September 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 55) re­
turned to the Committee for further study a proposal to amend
Canon 3A(7) of the Code of Judicial Conduct for United
States Judges to permit the "taking of still photographs" in
connection with naturalization and other ceremonial proceed­
ings in the circuit and district courts. Judge Tamm reported
that the Committee had concluded that the Canon should
continue to prohibit the broadcasting, televising, recording,
or taking of photographs in the courtroom and areas im­
mediately adjacent thereto during sessions of court or recesses
between sessions, but that an exception should be authorized
with respect to investitive, ceremonial, and naturalization
proceedings. The Conference accordingly approved the
recommendation of the Committee that Canon 3A(7) of the
Cod~ ofJudicial Conduct for United States Judges be amended
to read as follows:
    7. 	 A judge should prohibit broadcasting, televising, recording,
         or taking photographs in the courtroom and areas im­
         mediately adjacent thereto during sessions of court or re­
         cesses between sessions except that a judge may authorize:
         (a) the 	 use of electronic or photographic means for the "
             presentation of evidence, or for the perpetuation -3f a
             record; and
         (b) the broadcasting, televising, recording, or photograph­
             ing of investitive, ceremonial, or naturalization pro­
             ceedings.
                                   2S 


   Upon recommendation of the Committee the Conference
also amended the March 1962 resolution pertaining to court­
room photographs to read as follows:
     RESOLVED. That the Judicial Conference of the United States
     condemns the taking of photographs in the courtroom or its
     environs in connection with any judicial proceedings. and the
     broadcasting of judicial proceedings by radio. television, or
     other means, and considers such practices to be inconsistent
     with fair judicial procedure and that they ought not be per­
     mitted in any federal court. A judge may, however. permit the
     broadcasting, televising, recording, or photographing of inves­
     titive, ceremonial, or naturalization proceedings.

        CODES OF CONDUCT FOR CLERKS OF COURT AND 

                   PROBATION OFFICERS 


   The Conference in September 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 54)
authorized the Advisory Committee on Judicial Activities to
render advisory opinions concerning the application and inter­
pretation of the codes of conduct for clerks of court and proba­
tion officers only when requested by the chief judge of a cir­
cuit court, a chief judge of a district court, or by the Review
Committee. Upon recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference also authorized the Advisory Committee on Judi­
cial Activities to render advisory opinions on the Code of Con­
duct for Clerks of Court when requested by the Chief Judge
of the Court of Oaims or the Chief Judge of the Court of Cus­
toms and Patent Appeals.

           PARTICIPATION IN BUSINESS CORPORATIONS

  The Conference in September 1963 (Conf. Rept., p. 62)
adopted a resolution prohibiting a justice or judge from serving
in the capacity of an officer, director, or employee of a cor­
poration organized for profit. The Committee pointed out
that the prohibition against a judicial officer serving in a
business enterprise is now more comprehensively covered in
Canon 5C(2) of the Code ofJudicial Conduct for United States
Judges. The Conference apprQved the Committee's suggestion
that the 1963 resolution be rescinded as being obsolete in view
of the provisions of the Code.
                                   26

                  REMITIAL OF DISQUALIFICATION

   The Code of Judicial Conduct for United States Judges does
not authorize a waiver or remittal of disqualification in any
situation, although a remittal of disqualification is authorized
in certain situations by the disqualification statute, 28 U.S.c.
455, and by the Code of Judicial Conduct approved by the
American Bar Association. Judge Tamm informed the Con­
ference that the Committee was of the opinion that Canon 3
of the Code of Judicial Conduct for United States Judges
should be made consistent with the disqualification statute.
Accordingly, the Conference approved a recommendation
that Canon 3 of the Code be amended by including therein a
new Canon 3D to read as follows:
     D. Remittal of Disqualification
        A judge disqualified by the terms of Canon JC( I). except
        in the circumstances specifically set out in subsections (a)
        through (e). may. instead of withdrawing from the proceed­
        ing. disclose on the record the basis of his disqualification.
        If. based on such disclosure, the parties and lawyers. in­
        dependently of the Judge's participation. all agree in
        writing that the Judge's disqualification should be waived.
        the judge is no longer disqualified and may participate
        in the proceeding. The agreement. signed by all parties
        and lawyers. shall be incorporated in the record of the
        proceeding.



 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL ACTIVITIES
   The report of the Advisory Committee on Judicial Activi­
ties, chaired by Judge William B. Jones, was made by Chief
Judge Frank M. Coffin, a member of the Committee.
   Judge Coffin reported that in the last six months 15 new
inquiries were received by the Committee compared with 22'
inquiries received during the previous six-month period and,
that the Committee had issued the following formal opinions: .
       Advisory Opinion No. 57-Disqualification in a case when: a,
    controlled subsidiary of a corporation in which a judge owns
    stock is a party.
      Advisory Opinion No. 58-Disqualification in a case in which
    in which a relative is employed by a participating law firm.
                                      27 


  In addition, the Committee is preparing three other formal
opinions and is revising its Advisory Opinion No. 54 pertain­
ing to the propriety of a judge writing a letter of approbation
or recommendation to an appointing officer.


    COMMITfEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
        FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

  The Report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Federal Magistrates System was presented by the Chairman,
Judge Charles M. Metzner.

                  CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

   After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office,
the district courts and the judicial councils of the circuits, the
Conference approved the following changes in salaries and
arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrates. Unless
otherwise indicated, these changes are to become effective
when appropriated funds are available. The salaries for full­
time magistrate positions are to be determined in accordance
with the Judicial Conference Salary Plan.

                               FIRST CIRCUIT

District   (~r Massachusetts

      (1)   Authorized a fourth full-time magistrate position at Boston.
District of Rhode Island
      (1) 	 Authorized the payment of additional compensation to the clerk
            of court at Providence for services performed as a magistrate in
            an aggregate amount equivalent to the salary of a clerk of a
            large district court.
District of Puerto Rico
      (1) 	 Authorized a third full-time magistrate position at San Juan.
      (2) 	 Discontinued the combination clerk-magistrate position at San
            Juan, effective upon the appointment of the third full-time
            magistrate.
                                     28

                              SECOND CIRCUIT
District of Connecticut
      (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Bridgeport to
          full-thne status.
Southern District .1f New York
      (1) 	 Continued the two full-time magistrate positions at New York
         , City, which are due to expire on 	May 16, 1979, for additional
            eight-year terms.
      (2) 	 Authorized ,a seventh full-time magistrate position at New York
            City.
      (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position, at Poughkeepsie
            for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
            salary of $7,650 per annum.

                              FOURTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of North Carolina
     (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at New Bern to full­
           time status.
     (2) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Wilmington from $3,400 to $4,250 per annum.
Western District of Virginia
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate 'positions at Shenandoah
           National Park, Lynchburg, and Danville for additional four­
           year terms at the currently authorized salaries of $5,950, $4,250,
           and 52,550 per annum, respectively.
     (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Staunton upon
           the expiration of the incumbent's current term of office.
Southern District of West Virginia
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Charleston for ~n
           additional eight-year term of office.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Logan and Le~­
           burg for additional four-year terms at the currently authorized
           salaries of S1,700 and 58S0 per annum, respectively.

                               FIFfH CIRCUIT
Northern District ofAlabama
     (1) 	 Authorized a third full·time magistrate position at Birmingham.
                                      29

      (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at "Huntsville
            or Decatur" and Florence effective upon the appointment of the
            new full-time magistrate.
      (3) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at "Decatur or
            Huntsville" at a salary of $4,250 per annum.
Northern District ofFlorida
      (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Tallahassee for
            an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
            of $5,950 per annum.
      (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Panama City for
            an additional four-year term.
      (3) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
            Panama City from $1,700 to $4,250 per annum.
Middle District of Georgia
      (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Columbus for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           $14,450 per annum.

                                SIXTH CIRCUIT

Eastern District of Kentucky
      (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Lexington for an
           additional eight-year term.
      (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Covington for an
          additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
          $5,950 per annum.
Western District ofKentucky
      (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Paducah to full­
          time status.
      (2) 	 Authorized the chief deputy clerk at Louisville to perform the
          duties of a part·time magistrate without additional compensa­
          tion.
Northern District of Ohio
      (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Cleveland, which
          is due to expire C?n July 14, 1979.

                               SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Central District of Illinois
      (1) 	 Designated the existing fUll-time magistrate position at Spring­
                                     30 


          field. the part-time! lJlagi~trate position at Rock Island. the part­
          time magistrate position at Peoria. the combination clerk­
          magistrate position at Peoria. and the combination referee­
          magistrate position at Danville. to serve in the new Central
          District of Illinois.

Southern District of Illinois
     (1) Designated 	the existing full-time magistrate position at Benton
         and the part-time magistrate position at Belleville to serve in
         the new Southern District of Illinois.

Eastern District of Wisconsin
     (1) 	 Authorized the clerk of court at Milwaukee to perform the duties
           of a part-time magistrate for an additional four-year term with­
           out additional compensation.


                              EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Western District of Arkansas
     (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Fort Smith to
          full-time status.

District of North Dakota
     0) 	Continued the part-time magistrate position at Fargo for an ad­
           ditional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           54.250 per annum. 	                             .
     (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Bismarck from 52.550 to 55.950 per annum.
     (3) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           "Devils Lake or Minnewaukan" from 51.700 to 52.550 per
           annum.

District of South Dakota
                                                                              ,
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Pierre and Aber­
           deen for additional four-year terms at the currently authorized.
           salaries of 512.750 and 51.700 per annum. respectively.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Rapid City for
           an additional four-year term.
     (3) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Rapid City from 59.350 to 512.750 per annum.
     (4) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at Mobridge
           and Winner.
                                     31

                             NINTH CIRCUIT
District ofArizona
     (1) Authorized a third full-time magistrate position at Phoenix.
Central District of California
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Twentynine Palms
          for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
          salary of $4.250 per annum.
Southern District of California
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at El Centro for an
          additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
          $24.200 per annum.
District ofIdaho
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Boise for an ad­
           ditional four-year term.
     (2) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Boise from $3.400 to 514.450 per annum.
Eastern District of Washington
     (I) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
         Yakima from 57.650 to 514.450 per annum.


                            TENTH CIRCUIT
District of New Mexico
     (1) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
         Albuquerque from 514.450 to 524,200 per annum.
District of ~vomjng
     (1) 	 Authorized a part-time magistrate position at Rawlins at a
         salary of 5850 per annum.



        COMMITIEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION 

           OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM 


  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Bankruptcy System was presented by the Chairman, Judge
Edward Weinfeld.
                                     32

           SALARIES AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR REFEREES

   The Conference considered the Committee report, together
with the recommendations of the Director of the Administra­
tive Office, the judicial councils of the circuits, and the
district courts concerned, and took the following action re­
lating to referee pdsitions and changes in salaries and arrange­
ments. The Conference directed that, subject to the avail­
ability of funds, these actions become effective on April I,
1979, unless otherwise indicated.

                            SECOND CIRCUIT
Northern and Southern Districts of New York
     (1) 	 Authorized the full-time referee at Poughkeepsie in the Southern
           District of New York to exercise concurrent jurisdiction with the
           referees ofthe Northern District of New York in the Counties of
           Columbia, Greene, and Ulster.
     (2) 	 Designated Kingston as a regular place of holding bankruptcy
           court for the referee at Poughkeepsie.
     (3) 	 Directed that the above changes become effective 180 days
           following the date of enactment of Public Law 95-408.

                           SEVENTH CIRCUIT
Northern, Central and Southern Districts ofIllinois
     (1) 	 Designated the part-time referee position at Danville in the
           fonner Eastern District of Illinois as a part-time referee position
           for the new Central District of Illinois. provided that during the
           period from April 1 through April 30. 1979 the part-time referee
           at DanviUe shall have jurisdiction over bankruptcy cases in
           Kankakee County.
     (2) 	 Designated the full-time referee position at Peoria as a full-time
           position for the new Central District of Illinois.
     (3) Designated the full-time referee position at Springfield as a full~
           time referee position for the new Central District of Illinois.     \
     (4) 	 Authorized concurrent district-wide jurisdiction for all referees·
           in the new Central District of Illinois; designated Peoria, Spring­
           field, Danville, Quincy, Decatur, Bloomington, Galesburg,
           Rock Island, Kankakee, and Mattoon as places of holding
           bankruptcy court for the new Central District of Illinois; and
           directed that headquarters offices of referees remain as at
           present.
                                    33 


     (5) Designated the full-time referee position at East'St., Louis as a
           full-time position for the new Southern District of Illinois with
           East St. Louis, Cairo, Benton, and Alton as designated places
           of holding bankruptcy court with the headquarters office to re­
           main as at present.
     (6) 	 Directed that these changes become effective on April 1, 1979.

                           EIGHTH CIRCUIT
District of South Dakota
     (1) 	 Converted the part-time referee position at Sioux Falls to full­
           time status as soon as appropriated funds are available to pay
           the increased salary authorized by the Congress for a fUll-time
           referee.
     (2) 	 Designated Sioux Falls, Pierre, Aberdeen, Deadwood, and Rapid
           City as places of holding bankruptcy court for the full-time
           referee and authorized district-wide jurisdiction for the full-time
         ~U~.        	                                            ­

                            NINTH CIRCUIT
District of Oregon
     (1) Designated Salem and Lincoln City as places of holding bank­
         ruptcy court for the referees in the district in addition to Port­
         land, Eugene, Pendleton, Roseburg, Medford, Klamath Falls,
         Bend, Astoria, Tillamook,The Dalles, Coos Bay, and La Grande.

    REPORTING OF PROCEEDINGS IN THE BANKRUPTCY COURT

  The Act to establish a uniform law on the subject of bank­
ruptcies, Public Law 95-598, amended the Iudicial Code, 28
U.S.C. 773, to require that a record be made in bankruptcy
court, whenever practicable, of all proceedings conducted in
open court. The Iudicial Conference has been authorized to
prescribe whether the record is to be .made by electronic sound
recording, by a court reporter appointed or employed by the
bankruptcy court to take a verbatim record by shorthand or
mechanical means, or by an employee of the court designated
by the court to take a verbatim record.
  The Conference, upon recommendation of the Committee,
approved a general policy that (1) electronic sound recording·
equipment be used to record the flI'st meeting of creditors;
                               34 


(2) that live reporters be used for all judicial proceedings;
and (3) that when the volume of business does not warrant
the services of a full-time court reporter, contract reporters
be used. The Conference directed the Administrative Office
not to authorize full-time court reporters until the need for
their services is fully justified, and further directed that, until
such need is established, contract reporters be authorized.

        COMMITfEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION 

           OF THE PROBATION SYSTEM 


  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Probation System was presented by the Chairman, Judge
Gerald B, Tjoflat.

                    SENTENCING INSTITUTES

   The Committee had previously submitted to the Conference
a plan for a Joint Institute on Sentencing for the judges of the
First, Fourth, and District of Columbia Circuits to be held at
Raleigh, North Carolina, April 19-21, 1979 (Conf. Rept.,
Sept. 1978, p. 73). Judge Tjoflat informed the Conference
that the tentative agenda for the institute, previously approved
by the Conference, has been amended in the light of the ex­
perience gained at institutes on sentencing for the judges of
the Ninth, and the Eighth and Tenth Circuits held in the
fall of 1978. A revised agenda for this institute was submitted
for the information of the Conference.
   The Committee also submitted a plan for an Institute on
Sentencing for the judges of the Fifth Circuit to be held at
Dallas, Texas, October 3-5, 1979. The program would inclupe
one day at a nearby Federal correctional institution. The
Conference upon the Committee's recommendation approved
the time, place, participants and tentative agenda for this
sentencing institute.                                        .

             PROTECTION OF PROBATION OFFICERS

  The Conference on several occasions has recommended
legislation to amend Section 1114 of Title 18, United States
                              3S 


Code, to make it a Federal crime to kill a United States
probation officer while engaged in the performance of his of­
ficial duties. See Conf. Repts. Mar. 1970, p. 28; Mar. 1971,
p. 48; and Sept. 1974, p. 64. The Committee pointed out
that the· shooting of two probation officers while in the per­
formance of their duties-one in Memphis in May 1973 and
the other in the District of Columbia in June 1974-previously
demonstrated the need for the legislation. Last December
a probation officer in Laredo, Texas, was killed from ambush
as he approached the Federal building. The Committee asked
that the Conference resolution be renewed.
   It was the view of the Conference, however, that bankruptcy
judges and United States magistrates were equally in need of
any protection that may be offered by their inclusion in this
statute. The Conference thereupon approved the draft legis­
lation submitted by the Committee with an amendment to
include bankruptcy judges and United States magistrates.

                PRETRIAL SERVICES AGENCIES

   The Pretrial Services Agencies, established by the Director
of the Administrative Office on a demonstration basis in ten
representative district courts pursuant to Title II of the
Speedy Trial Act of 1974, have now been in operation an
average of 34 months. During this period the Administrative
Office has been compiling statistical information on the opera­
tion of these agencies and is now preparing to submit to the
Congress a comprehensive report containing the Director's
views and recommendations pertaining to the administration
and operation of the pretrial services agencies established
pursuant to the Act. The report is due on or before July I.
1979.
   Judge Tjoflat informed the Conference that the Committee
had reviewed a preliminary draft of a report based on the
statistical information collected to date. Further examination
of the data is necessary before final conclusions can be drawn
and recommendations presented. Since the Conference is not
expected to meet again before the due date of the report. the
Conference authorized the Committee to exercise continued
oversight of the completion of the Director's report. approve
the final recommendations to be included in the report. and
                              36 


authorize, on behalf of the Conference, the release of the
Director's report to the Congress.


                  MANDATORY RETIREMENT

    In September 1977 (Conf. Rept., p. 73) the Conference, on
 recommendation of the Committee, approved guidelines to
 assist the Director of the Administrative Office in exercising
 his authority to exempt a probation officer from the manda­
 tory separation required by law. Judge Tjoflat tnformed the
 Conference that the Committee has been contacted by several
 chief judges who have expressed their concern that the Direc­
 tor has denied exemptions despite their recommendations.
The District Judges Association of the Fourth Circuit has
asked the Conference to amend the guidelines to authorize an
exemption "if the district judges of the district are unanimous
in the desire for the exemption."
   Judge Tjoflat reported that the Committee had reviewed
the first year's experience under the mandatory separation
provisions of the Civil Service Retirement Act and had re­
viewed a memorandum from the Civil Service Commission
concerning the appointment of a mandatorily separated law
enforcement officer as a reemployed annuitant and an opinion
of the General Counsel of the Administrative Office holding
that the Director is the "head of the agency" when imple­
menting the national retirement program. Based on its review
the Committee concluded that the Director of the Adminis­
trative Office has properly discharged his responsibilities
under the law and that there is no need for an amendment of
the Conference-approved guidelines. The Conference agreed
with the Committee's conclusion.



  COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE'
              CRIMINAL LAW

  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Crimil)al Law was presented by the Chairman, Judge Alexan­
der Harvey II.
                                    37

         USE OF THE SPANISH LANGUAGE IN THE UNITED 

         STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF 

                       PUERTO RICO 


   H. R. 13950. 95th Congress. would authorize the use of the
Spanish language as the official language for the conduct of
proceedings in criminal cases in the District Court for the
District of Puerto Rico. The Committee recommended that
the Conference oppose the enactment of this legislation in the
form proposed by H. R. 13950. After full discussion the Con­
ference adopted the following resolution:
        RESOLVED: The Conference takes no position concerning
    the policy implications of proposed legislation which would
    authorize the use of Spanish in the United States District
    Court for the District of Puerto Rico. However. the Conference
    opposes the enactment by Congress of a bill similar to H. R.
    13950. introduced in the 95th Congress. unless proper con­
    sideration is given to the following practical effects of this
    legislation which would have an adverse impact on the adminis­
    tration of justice. both as to trials in the United States District
    Court of Puerto Rico and as to appeals from such court to the
    First Circuit:
          1. The problem of adapting an English-speaking Federal
       court system based on interpretations of cases and statutes
       written in' the English language to cases involving Spanish­
       speaking defendants;
          2. Greatly increased expenses, including costs required
       for additional equipment. space and personnel;
          3. Delays in both trials and appeals;
          4. Difficulties in obtaining Spanish-speaking reporters.
       translators and other necessary personnel; and
          5. Difficulties arising from delays in the immediate review
       by the court of appeals of stays and emergency orders.

       TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES FOR DEFENDANTS IN
                    CRIMINAL CASES

   A recent amendment to the Criminal Code authorizes the
payment of the transportation expenses of a defendant in a
criminal proceeding to the place of holding court without the
necessity of traveling in the custody of a law enforcement of­
ficer. Payment of transportation expenses may be made in
the discretion of the district court.
                              38 


   It was brought to the attention of the Committee. however.
that the new legislation provides only for the transportation
expenses of a defendant to the place of holding court for the
purpoSe of participating in a proceeding. but does not provide
for the payment of return transportation expenses. The Con­
ference. upon recommendation of the Committee. approved
a proposal to amend the statute to authorize the payment of
the travel expenses of a defendant fOf the return of the in­
dividual from the place of holding court to the place of
arrest. or the defendant's home, whichever is closest to the
place of release. The Director of the Administrative Office
was authorized to draft suitable legislation and to transmit it
to the Congress for its consideration.


              COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT 

              THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT 


  The report of the Committee to Implement the Criminal
Justice Act was presented by a member of the Committee,
Judge Oliver Gasch, in the absence of the Chairman, Judge
Dudley B. BonsaI.

                ApPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

   The Conference authorized the Director of the Adminis­
trative Office to distribute copies of the report on appoint­
ments and payments under the Criminal Justice Act for the
fiscal year 1978 to all chief judges, aJl federal defender
organizations and to others who may request copies. The re­
port indicated that the sum of $24,000,000 was appropriated
by Congress for the administration of the Act during the fiscal
year 1978. including $350.000 for the liquidation of obligations'
carried forward from the previous year. During the year ap­
proximately 45.000 persons were represented under the Act, '.
a decrease of about 2.3 percent from the fiscal year 1977, but
an increase of about 1.8 percent over the comparable period
in 1976. Federal public defenders represented 13,725 persons
during the year and the community defenders represented
6.396 persons. Collectively, these offices accounted for 45
percent of an representations.
                                 39 


   The average cost of representation under the Criminal Jus­
tice Act, induding appeal, was $454 per case for private panel
attorneys, $464 per case for community defender organiza­
tions, and $524 per case for Federal public defender offices.

  GRANT REQUESTS-COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

  The Conference considered grant requests from seven com­
munity defender organizations and approved sustaining
grants for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1980 as fol­
lows:
    Federal Defenders of San Diego, Inc.         $738.000
    Federal Defender Program, Inc.­
      Atlanta, Georgia                            231.000
    Federal Defender Program, Inc.
      Chicago. Illinois                           464,000
    Legal Aid and Defender Association
      of Detroit, Michigan, Federal
      Defender Division                           566,000
    Federal Defender Services Unit of
      the Legal Aid Society of New York          1,089,000
    Federal Defender. Inc.
      Portland, Oregon                            241.000
    Federal Court Division of the Defender
      Association of Philadelphia                 373,000

      COMMUNITY DEFENDERS-CONDITIONS OF A GRANT

   In September 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 83) the Conference was
informed that the Administrative Office had been directed to
draft an agreement to be executed annuaIIy by community
defender organizations and forwarded with each request for a
grant. A draft of a proposed agreement was circulated to all
community defender organizations for comment, and then
considered by the Committee.
   After study the Committee determined to recommend that
each sustaining grant to a community defender organization,
approved by the Conference, be made subject to certain
terms and conditions. The Committee submitted a draft of
"conditions of grant" and recommended that each year, com­
mencing with grants for the fiscal year 1980, each community
defender organization be required to accept these conditions
                                   40 


prior to the receipt of any payments under the grant. The
recommendation of the Committee was approved by the Con­
ference.

     AMENDMENTS TO CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT GUIDELINES

  Judge Gasch. on behalf of the Committee, submitted pro­
posed amendments to the Guidelines for the Administration
of the Criminal Justice Act to accomplish the following:
    1. 	 Permit all defender organizations to incur expensesJor in­
         vestigative, expert and other services without reference to
         limitations contained in 18 U.S.c. 3006A(e)(2) and (3).
         provided that the total expenditures for these services do
         not exceed the budget or grant authorizations for these
         categories of expenses;
    2. 	 Provide for interim payments of compensation to counsel
         and others when considered necessary in a special case;
    3. Oarify the guidelines pertaining to the allocation between
         the Department of Justice and the Administrative Office
         of the costs and fees for the services of psychiatrists and
         other experts;
    4. 	 Clarify the guidelines relating to the payment by the Depart·
         ment of Justice of fees and expenses of fact witnesses in
         habeas corpus actions brought in the Federal courts; and
    S. Clarify the types of items and services of a personal nature
         which are not reimbursable under the Criminal Justice Act.
  The amendments to the guidelines were approved by the
Conference as SUbmitted.

         AMENDMENTS TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT

   The Conference in September 1977 (Conf. Rept., p. 88)
authorized the transmission to Congress of proposed amend-,
ments to the Criminal Justice Act which would conform the
Act to the provisions of the Juvenile Delinquency Act and the,
Parole Commission and Reform Act. provide counsel for'
grand jury witnesses who are putative defendants. and
authorize expect services necessary for adequate representa­
tion. At the request of Judge Gasch. the Conference reaffirmed
its previous action and authorized the resubmission to the
Congress of these proposed amendments to the Criminal
Justice Act.
                                  41

   ASSISTANT FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS-NAME CHECKS

   The Committee recommended that the Conference rescind
its requirement that prospective assistant Federal public
defenders b~ subject to name checks by the Federal Bureau
of Investigation prior to their appointment (Mar. 1976 Conf.
Rept., p. 24), leaving the question of background investiga­
tions and name checks to the discretion of the public defen­
ders. Employees of community defender organizations are
not subject to the name check requirement. Recently, Federal
public defenders have been experiencing difficulty in recruit­
ing qualified assistants in view of the delay being encountered
in obtaining name checks. The recommendation was ap­
proved by the Conference.


            COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION 

               OF THE JORY SYSTEM 


  Chief Judge C. Clyde Atkins, Chairman of the Committee
on the Operation of the Jury System, presented the report of
the Committee.

              ,PUBLIC DRAWING OF JUROR NAMES

   Judge Atkins informed the Conference that the Jury System
Improvements Act of 1978,28 O.S.c. 1869(k), authorizes the
Judicial Conference to adopt regulations governing the man­
ner of drawing juror names from the jury wheels when such
drawing is made by electronic data processing. To implement
this provision of law, the Committee submitted the follow­
ing resolution which was adopted by the Conference:
       The Judicial Conference of the United States adopts this
    regulation under the authority vested in it by section 1869(k)
    of title 28, United States Code, in respect to the public draw­
    ing of juror names from the master and qualified jury wheels
    as required by 28 U.S.C. 1864 and 1866.
       1. The term "reasonable public notice" shall mean the post­
    ing of a written announcement as to the scheduled drawing on
    a bulletin board or at another public place within the court­
    house at the place of holding court at which jurors being se­
    lected in the drawing will serve. Other methods of communica­
                                    42

     tion may also be employed at the discretion of each United
     States district court. This posting or other announcement shall
     take place at such reasonable time in advance of the drawing
     as the district court shall in its discretion determine.
         2. In those judicial districts utilizing automated data pro­
     cessing equipment in their jury selection processes. the public
     drawing requirement shall apply only to the selection of a start­
     ing number and interval ("quotient") which shall govern the
     selection of juror names from the original source lists. It shall
     not be deemed to require any public observance of the actual
     computer operations.
        3. In order to ensure the exercise of proper supervision and
     management over the automated aspects of jury selection and
     its accordance with statutory requirements. the district courts
     described in paragraph 2 shall comply with the following proce­
     dures:
           A. The court shall issue to the operator of the computer
        facilities written instructions describing the operations which
        shall be performed by the computer equipment. Such in­
        structions for random selection of grand and petit jurors by
        data processing methods may be referred to in the district
        court's plan for random selection of grand and petit jurors
        and shall be available for inspection by the public.
           B. Upon the completion of the data processing work
        required of the computer facilities, the court shall require
        the execution of an affidavit by the agency providing the
        computer service. Such affidavit shall state under penalty
        of perjury that the procedures set down by the court govern·
        ing the selection of its jurors have been fully met in the auto·
        mated phase of the selection process.
           C. The clerk or jury commission shall than receive into
        the permanent records of the court the selection instructions
        to the computer facility and the affidavit by the representative
        of the computer facility certifYing compliance with the same.

             ApPOINTMENT OF COUNSEL FOR JURORS

   The Jury System Improvements Act of 1978, 28 U.S.. C.
1875. imposes a duty upon employers to refrain from inter­
fering with the performance of Federal jury service by a per·
manent employee and subjects the employer to civil liability
for violating this duty. The Act also authorizes a district
~urt to appoint counsel to represent an aggrieved juror in any
court action necessary to the resolution of a juror's claim
                                  43 


against the employer and authorizes the payment of compen­
sation and necessary expenses to the extent provided under
the Criminal Justice Act. The scope of the district court's
discretion in appointing counsel is not defined nor is it stated
whether an appointment must be contingent upon the juror's
inability to afford retained counsel.
  The Committee submitted a draft of a bill amending the
Jury System Improvements Act of 1978 to provide that a
juror's attorney fees may be taxed as costs against an em­
ployer if such fees have been expended from government
funds. as well as when the juror has retained and paid for his
own counsel. The Conference approved the draft bill and
authorized its submission to the Congress.
  Upon the recommendation of the Committee. the Confer­
ence also adopted the following guideline:
       In authorizing the appointment of counsel to represent a
    juror claiming the violation by his employer of his right to
    perform jury service. 28 U.S.c. I 875(d). does not require a
    showing by the juror of financial need as a prerequisite to such
    appointment or to the compensation of appointed counsel
    from appropriated funds available to the courts. It is recom­
    mended, however, that a district court confronted with a re­
    quest by a juror for the appointment of counsel first advise the
    juror that he may retain counsel and be awarded attorney's
    fees as costs if he prevails in the action.


                  JURIES IN BANKRUPTCY CASES

   The new Bankruptcy Act. Public Law 95-598. is expected
to increase the number of jury trials conducted by bankruptcy
judges when it becomes effective on October 1. 1979. It was
the view of the Committee that the selection of juries for
bankruptcy cases should be governed by chapter 121 of title
28, United States Code. which sets forth the manner of jury
selection in the district courts. The Committee also believes it
advisable for the bankruptcy court to select its juries under
the same jury selection plan and from the same master and
qualified jury wheels which are employed by the district court
for that judicial district. Upon recommendation of the Com­
mittee. the Conference adopted the following policy for ap­
plication in the impaneling of juries by the bankruptcy courts:
        1. All courts of the United States conducting jury trials
     shall adhere to the policies prescribed for Federal jury selection
     by the Congress in the Jury Selection and Service Act of 1968.
     as amended. 28 U.S.c. 1861 et seq.
       2. The plans for random selection of grand and petit jurors
    adopted by each United States district court with the approval
    of its reviewing panel under 28 U.S.C. 1863 shall be deemed
    to govern jury selection by the bankruptcy court for that judi­
    cial district as w e l l . "

       3.. The clerk or jury commission of each United States district
    court shall upon request by the clerk of the bankruptcy court
    for that district supply to the bankruptcy court a sufficient
    number of jurors for use in its scheduled jury trials. Such
    jurors may continue to be utilized by the district court if not
    selected or when not serving in the bankruptcy court.
       4. Each bankruptcy court shall cooperate with the district
    court clerk in the implementation of those jury utilization
    techniques which are employed by the district court in the
    interest of efficient and economical usage of jurors. including
    jury pooling. multiple voir dire. staggered trial starts. and any
    other procedures regularly followed by the clerk or jury com­
    mission of the district court at the direction of its judges.



                    JUROR QUALIFICATION FORM

   Judge Atkins called attention to a situation in the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania in which a new trial was required be­
cause a juror who had served in the case was later found to
be disqualified from jury service on account of a prior con­
viction for a state crime. Upon investigation it was discovered
that the juror had given an incorrect answer to the questioh
on the qualification form regarding prior criminal records be­
cause of a misunderstanding as to its meaning. The Confer'~
ence thereupon approved a change in the wording of this
question on the form to clarify that the statutory disqualifica­
tion from federal jury service applies to persons convicted.
upon their guilty plea or at trial. of a crime which may be
punished by imprisonment for more than one year. regardless
of the fact that a lesser penalty may have actually been im­
posed_
                              45 


                      INJURIES TO JURORS

   The Conference in March 1974 (Conf. Rept., p. 20) approved
a draft bill to bring Federal grand and petit jurors within the
coverage of the Federal Employees Compensation Act by
adding a new section to chapter 81 of title 5, United States
Code. Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Confer­
ence again approved a draft of a similar bi1l and authorized
its resubmission to the Congress.




   COMMITIEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

   The written report of the Committee on Intercircuit Assign­
ments, submitted by the Chairman, Judge George L. Hart,
Jr., was received by the Conference.
   The report indicated that during the period from August
16. 1978 through February 15, 1979, the Committee had
recommended 71 intercircuit assignments to be undertaken
by 51 judges. Of this number, five were senior circuit judges,
three were active circuit judges, 13 were district judges in
active status and 25 were senior district judges. Fourteen
assignments involved one active judge of the Court of Claims,
two active judges of the Court of Customs and Patent Ap­
peals, and two active judges of the Customs Court.
   Five senior circuit judges and 13 senior district judges car­
ried out 22 of the 34 assignments to the courts of appeals
which were recommended during this period. Three active
circuit judges, one active district judge, two active judges of
the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals and one active
judge of the Customs Court participated in the other 12 assign­
ments to the courts of appeals.
   Of the 37 assignments to the district courts, 15 senior
district judges participated in 15 assignments and the remain­
ing 22 assignments were carried out by 12 active district
judges, one active judge of the Court of Customs and Patent
Appeals and two active judges of the Customs Court.
                                 46

      AD HOC COMMITTEE ON iHE DISPOSITION 

               OF COURT RECORDS 


   The report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Disposition of
 Court Records, chaired by Judge Walter J. Cummings, was
 presented by Judge Robert L. Kunzig. a member of the Com­
 mittee.
   Judge Kunzig reported that the Committee had approved a
draft schedule for the disposition of the records of the United
States district courts, including territorial district courts. The
draft schedules limit the types of district court records which
are to be maintained permanently to indices, judgment and
order books, certain recorded documents, domestic relations
records, certain sealed records, and docket sheets. except
those of United States commissioners and magistrates in petty
offense cases which are to be retained for five years only. All
other records are to be considered temporary. The draft
schedule assigns retention periods up to 23 years for criminal
case files.
   At the request of Judge Kunzig the Conference authorized
the circulation of the Committee's report, including the draft
disposition schedule and program, to judges and other inter­
ested officers in the district courts with the request that com­
ments thereon be submitted to the Committee.
   Judge Kunzig informed the Conference that, upon comple­
tion of its work on the records of the district courts, the Com­
mittee would consider disposition schedules for the records of
the courts of appeals and other federal courts.

                MEMORIAL RESOLUTIONS

   Noting the recent death of Judge Carl A. Weinman, a
former member of the Conference and Chairman of the
Budget Committee, the Conference adopted the followif1g
resolution:
                HONORABLE CARL        A.   WEINMAN

      With deep sorrow. the Judicial Conference of the United
    States pays tribute to a respected colleague, Carl A. Weinman.
    who died on February 5. 1979.
                                   47

       After serving as a Judge of the Court of Common Pleas with
    Jefferson County,' Ohio, for twelve years, Judge Weinman was
     appointed a United States District Judge for the Southern
    District of Ohio on September 8, 1959, becoming Chief Judge
    in 1961 and taking senior status on March 1, 1973.
       Throughout his years on the federal bench he provided in­
    valuable service to the Judicial Conference, both as a Confer­
    ence member from 1969 to 1972, and as a Committee member.
    He began his tour with the Committee on the Budget in 1960,
    and continued with that Committee until 1978, serving as
    Chairman from 1971 to 1978. But for his able assistance and
    his ability to present explanations of the needs of the judiciary,
    while maintaining his sense of responsibility to the Congress
    and the public, we would be without many of the great strides
    which have been made over the past years in the improvement
    of justice.
       In the words of Judge Carl B. Rubin, who succeeded him on
    the District Court, "The passing of Judge Carl A. Weinman
    brings to an end almost twenty years of dedicated judicial ser­
    vice for this community. His unerring understanding of human
    nature, together with his stature as a legal scholar, combined
    to provide a jurist of rare ability and talent. We were richer
    for his presence. We are poorer for his loss."
       The Judicial Conference mourns his passing and directs that
    a copy of this resolution be transmitted to his widow.
   Noting also the recent death of Warren Olney III, a former
distinguished Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts, the Conference adopted the following
resolution:

                        WARREN OLNEY         III
       The Judicial Conference of the United States sadly notes the
    passing of Warren Olney III. former Director of the Adminis­
    trative Office of the United States Courts, on December 20.
    1978.
       Warren Olney's illustrious career in public service spanned
    a period of almost forty years. beginning in California as a
    County Deputy District Attorney. Between periods of private
    practice he served the State of California a~ Assistant Attorney
    General in charge of the Criminal Division. and as Chief Coun­
    sel to the Special Crime Study Commission on Organized Crime
    in California. His reputation for and dedication to excellence
                                  48 


     next led to an appointment as Assistant Attorney General of
     the United States in the Criminal Division. Department of
     Justice. under Attorney General Herbert Brownell.
        In 1958. less than a year after leaving the Department of
     Justice. at the urging of Chief Justice Warren. he accepted the
     challenge of succeeding Henry P. Chandler. the first Director
     of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. upon
     whose shoulders had fallen the responsibility    fOr the initial
     development of the organization established by the Adminis­
     trative Office Act of 1939.
      Over the next ten years. Warren Olney was responsible for
    a wide range of new concepts in judicial administration. To
    him must go much of the credit for the creation of the Federal
    Judicial Center, recognizing that the function of research and
    development should be separated from that of operations.
       As a man of great legal ability and professional integrity, he
    was dedicated to excellence in all that he did, a dedication
    which, through the years. earned the deep respect and admira­
    tion of us all.
      The Judicial Conference mourns his passing and directs that
    a copy of this resolution be transmitted to his widow.



                            ELECTIONS

   The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 621(a)(2), elected
Circuit Judge William H. Mulligan of the Second Circuit to
membership on the Board of the Federal Judicial Center for a
term of four years, succeeding Circuit Judge Ruggero J.
Aldisert whose term expires on March 28. 1979. The Confer­
ence also elected Chief Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jr., of the
District of Oregon to membership on the Board of the Fedetal
Judicial Center for a term of four years, succeeding District
Judge Robert N. Schnacke whose term of office also expires
on March 28. 1979.
  The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.c. 332(0. reelected
Chief Judge Howard T. Markey of the Court of Customs and
Patent Appeals to an additional three year term as a member
of the Board of Certification for Circuit Executives. Judge
Markey's current term expires on July 1, 1979.
                              49

     PRETERMISSION OF TERMS OF THE COURTS 

                  OF APPEALS 


   The Conference. pursuant to 28 U.S.c. 48. approved the
pretermission of a June 1979 term of the United States Court
of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit at Asheville. North Caro­
lina. and approved the pretermission of tenns of the Courts
of Appeals for the Fifth. Eighth and Tenth Circuits during
the calendar year 1979 as follows: in the Fifth Circuit. at all
places except New Orleans. in the Eighth Circuit. at all places
except St. Louis and St. Paul; and in the Tenth Circuit. at all
places except Denver.


          RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

  The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters
considered at this session where necessary for legislative or
administrative action.

                                    Warren E. Burger
                            Chief Justice of the United States

May 16, 1979
                                                 so 





                                               INDEX



Administrative Office of the United States Courts:
     Report of the Director. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 

Air Disaster Litigation .......................................... 13 

Amendments to the Criminal Justice Act .......................... 40 

Amendments to Criminal Justice Act Guidelines .................... 40 

Annuitants. Reemployed ........................................ 15 

Appellate Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court ....................... 13 

Appointments and Payments under the Criminal Justice 

  Act ........................................................ 38 

Appropriations: 

     Fiscal Year 1979. SupplementaL ............................. 17 

     FiscaJ Year 1980 ........................................... 17 

Bankruptcy System: 

     Committee on. Report of. ................................... 31 

     Reporting of Proceedings in Bankruptcy Court ................. 33 

     Salaries and Arrangements for Referees ....................... 32 

Budget: 

     Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1980 .......................... 17 

     Committee oil. Report of. ................................... 17 

     Limitations on Salaries of a Judge's Personnel Staff ............. 17 

     Printing of Opinions ....................................... 18 

     Space and Facilities ........................................ 18 

     Supplemental Appropriations for Fiscal 1979 .................. 17 

Circuit .Councils:.
     Cost of Living Allowances for Judicial Officers
        and Employees Living Outside the Continental
        United States or in Alaska ................................ '12
Circuit Executives: 

     Election to the Board of Certification ......................... 48 

Clerks of Court: 

    Code of Conduct ........................................... 25 

Community Defender Organizations: 

    Conditions of a Grant ...................................... 39 

    Grant Requests ............................................ 39 

                                                 51 


Conference:
    Call of ................................................... 1 

    Release of Action .......................................... 49 

Court Administration: 

    Air Disaster Litigation ...................................... 13 

    Appellate Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court ................... 13 

    Association of District Judges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8 

    Committee on. Report of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 

    Cost of Living Allowances for Judicial Officers 

       and Employees Serving Outside the Continental
       United States or in Alaska ................................ 12 

    Court Reporters ........................................... 16 

    Judicial Conference Schedule of Additional Fees 

       for Bankruptcy Courts ................. , .................. 11 

    Judicial Conference Schedule of Additional Fees 

       for the United States District Courts ........................ 10 

    Judicial Conference Schedule of Fees for United 

       States Courts of Appeals .................................. 9 

    Judicial Tenure ............................................ 4 

    Libraries ............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7 

    Membership of District Judges on Circuit Councils .............. 6 

    Other Fees. '" ............................................ 12 

    Reemployed Annuitants ..................................... 15 

    Salary Limitations on Judge's Personal Staff ................... 15 

    Schedule of Fees in Federal Courts ........................... 9 

    Transfer of Cases to Other Courts ............................ 15 

    Uniform Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement. ................... 7 

    Virgin Islands Federal Relations Act. ......................... 14 

Court Records: 

    Committee on. Report of. .................................. .46 

Court Reporters: 

    Amendments to Qualification Criteria ......................... 16 

Courts: 

    Disposi tion of Records ..................................... .46 

    Libraries ................................................. 7 

    Other Fees ................................................ 12 

    Schedule of Fees in Federal ................................. 9 

    Space and Facilities ........................................ 18 

    Transfer of Cases .......................................... 15 

    Virgin Islands Federal Relations Act .......................... 14 

    Bankruptcy Courts: 

          Judicial Conference Schedule of Additional Fees ............ 11 

          Policy in Impaneling Juries ............................. .43 

          Reporting of Proceedings ............................... 33 

                                                      52

 Bankruptcy Court (cont'd)

           Statistics ............................................. 3 

           Juries .............. , ............... '" ............... 43 

      Courts of Appeals: 

           Judicial Conference Schedule of Fees ..................... 9 

           Statistics ............................................. 3 

           Pretermission of Terms ................................. 49 

      District Courts: 

           Judicial Conference Schedule of Additional Fees ............ 10 

           Statistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 

           Use of Spanish Language in Puerto Rico .................. 37 

 Criminal Code: 

      Amendment to ............................................ 37 

 Criminal Justice Act: 

      Amendments to the Criminal Justice Act ... , .................. 40 

      Amendments to the Criminal Justice Act Guidelines ............. 40 

      Appointments and Payments ................................ 38 

      Assistant Federal Public Defenders-Name Checks ............. 41 

      Committee on. Report of. ................................... 38 

      Community Defenders-Conditions of a Grant ................. 39 

      Grant Requests-Community Defender Organizations ........... 39 

Criminal Law: 

      Committee on. Report of. ................................... 36 

      Transportation Expenses for Defendants in Criminal Cases ....... 37 

      Use of Spanish Language in the United States 

         District Court for the District of Puerto Rico ................. 37 

Federal Judicial Center: 

      Elections to the Board ...................................... 48 

      Report ................................................... 3 

Federal Public Defenders. Assistant 

     Name Checks. Rescinding of ................................ 41 

fees: 

     Judicial Conference Schedule of Additional Fees for 

        United States Bankruptcy Courts ........................... 11 

     Judicial Conference Schedule of Additional Fees for 

        the United States District Courts ........................... 10 

     Judicial Conference Schedule of Fees for United 

        States Courts of Appeals. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9 

     Other Fees ................................................ 12 

     Schedule of Fees in Federal Courts ......................... " 9 

Filing Regulations for Financial Disclosure ........................ 20 

Financial Disclosure: 

     Advisory Panel ............................................ 23 

                                    53

Financial Disclosure (cont'd)

      Applicability of the Code of Judicial Conduct .................. 23 

      Extensions of Time for Filing Reports ......................... 21 

      Filing Regulations ......................................... 20 

      Forms. Instructions. Rules and Regulations .................... 20 

     Gifts of Books and Periodicals ............................... 21 

      Inspection of Reports ....................................... 22 

      Methods of Evaluation ...................................... 21 

      Nominees to Judicial Office .................................. 23 

Guidelines: 

      Amendments to Criminal Justice Act ......................... 40 

     Authorizing Appointment of Counsel for Jurors ............... .42 

Intercircuit Assignments: 

     Committee on. Report of. .................................. .45 

Judges: 

     Amendment of Canon 3 of the Code of Judicial 

        Conduct ....... , ........................................ 26 

     Associations of District Judges ..........•..•................. 8 

     Cost of Living Allowance Outside the Continental 

        United States or in Alaska ............. ; .................. 12 

     Membership of District Judges on Circuit Councils .............. 6 

     Nominees to Judicial Office .................................. 23 

     Rescinding of 1963 Resolutions Relating to 

        Participation in Business Corporations ......................25 

     Salary Limitation on Personal Staff........................ 15, 17 

Judicial Activities: 

     Advisory Opinion No. 57-Disqualification when 

        a Controlled Subsidiary of the Corporation in 

        which a Judge holds Stock is a Party ........................ 26 

     Advisory Opinion No. 58-Disqualification when 

        a Relative is Employed by a Participating Law 

        Firm ................................................... 26 

     Committee on. Report of. ................................... 26 

Judicial Conduct: 

     Codes of Conduct for Clerks of Court and 

        Probation Officers ....................................... 25 

     Committee on. Report of. ................................... 24 

     Investitive. Ceremonial and Naturalization 

        Proceedings ............................................. 24 

     Participation in Business Corporations ........................ 25 

     Remittal of Disqualification ................................. 26 

Judicial Conduct. Code of: 

     Amendment of ............................................ 24 

                                     5.4

Judicial Conduct. Code of (cont'd)

      Amendment of Canon 3D ................................... 26 

      Clerks of Court and Probation Ofticers ........................ 25 

Judicial Ethics: 

      Advisory Panel ............................................ 23 

      Applicability of the Code of Judicial Conduct .................. 23 

      Appointment of the Committee .............................. 19 

      Committee on. Report of. ................................... 19 

      Extensions of Time for Filing Reports ......................... 21 

      Filing Regulations ......................................... 20 

      Gifts of Books and Periodicals ............................... 21 

      Inspection of Reports ....................................... 22 

      Methods of Valuation ...................................... 21 

      Nominees to Judicial Office .................................. 23 

      Reporting Form and Instructions. Rules and 

         Regulations ............................................. 20 

      Resolutions Pertaining to the Review Committee ................ 22 

judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation .......................... 4 

Judicial Tenure ................................................ 4 

lurisdiction: 

     Appellate. of the Supreme Court ............................. 13 

Jurors: 

     Appointment of Counsel for ................................. 42 

     Claritication of Qualification Form ........................... 44 

     Injuries ................................................... 45 

     Jury Systems Improvements Act of 1978 .................... 41, 42 

     Public Drawing of Names .................................. . 41 

lury System: 

     Appointment of Counsel for Jurors ........................... 42 

     Committee on. Report of. ................................... 41 

     Injuries to lurors ... . ..................................... 45 

     Juror Qualitication Form .................................... 44 

     Jurors in Bankruptcy Cases .................................. 43 

     Public Drawing of Juror Names .............................. '41 

Legislation:
     S. 	3008-Authorize an Allowance for Judicial 

        Officers and Employees Serving Outside the 

        Continental United States or in Alaska ...................... 12 

     S. 	3100-Appellate Jurisdiction of the Supreme 

        Court .................................................. 13 

     H.R. J0917-Air Disaster Litigation .......................... 13 

     H.R. I I 276-Transfer of Cases from Court to Court ............ 15 

     H.R. L1950-Authori7.e Use of the Spanish Language
                                                  ss 

Legislation (cont'd)

        in the District Court for Puerto Rico ........................ 37 

     Proposed Draft Legislation to Amend Criminal
        Code re Transportation Expenses for Defendants
        in Criminal Cases ..................................... , , , 37
     Proposed Draft Legislation to Amend the Jury
        System Improvements Act of 1978 to Provide that
        a Juror's Attorney Fees may be Taxed as Costs
        against an Employer if such Fees have been
        Expended from Government Funds ...................... , .. 43
     Proposed Draft Legislation to bring Fecleral
        Grand and Petit Jurors within the Coverage of
        the Federal Employees Compensation Act ............ , ..... , 4S
Libraries .. , ........ , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7
Magistrates:
     Changes in Positions ....................................... 27
Magistrates System:
     Changes in Magistrate Positions .............................. 27
     Committee on. Report of. ................................... 27
Markey. Honorable Howard T.-Reelection to the
  Board of Certitication for Circuit Executives .................. ' .. 48
Memorial Resolutions:
     Olney. Warren III .................................. , ... , .. 47
     Weinman. Carl A ....................................... ' .. 46
Mulligan. Honorable William H.-Election to the
  Board of the Federal Judicial Center ............................ 48
Olney. Warren III. Former Director of the Administrath'e
  Office of the United States Courts. Resolution on
  the Death of ................................................ 47
Opinions:
     Advisorv. of the Judicial Activities Committee .................. 26
     Printing of ................................................ 18
Photographs 'in the Courtroom: ................................. , 24 

     Resolution ...........'..................................... 2S
Pretermission of Terms of the Courts of Appeals .................... 49
Pretrial Services Agencies ....................................... 3S
Probation Ofticers:
     Code of Conduct ........................................... 2S 

     Mandatory Retirement. .................................... ' 36 

     Protection of ............................................. :34 

Probation System:
     Committee on, Report of. ........................ , .......... 34
     Mandatory Retirement. ..................................... 36
                                                  56

 Probation System (cont'd)

      Pretrial Services Agencies ................................... 35 

      Protection of Probation Officers .............................. 34 

      Sentencing Institutes ....................................... 34 

Puerto Rico. Use of the Spanish Language in the 

   United States District Court ................................... 37 

Referees: 

      Salaries and Arrangements for ............................... 32 

Reporting Forms for Financial Disclosure ......................... 20 

Resolutions: 

      Adequate Library Facilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8 

      Disciplinary Enforcement. Uniform Rules of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7 

      Honorable Warren Olney III. Memorial on the 

         Death of. ............................................... 47 

      Honorable Carl A. Weinman. Memorial on the 

         Death of. .... " ......................................... 46 

     Judicial Conduct. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. 5 

      Membership of District Judges on Circuit Councils .............. 6 

      Photographs in the Courtroom ............................... 25 

      Public Drawing of Juror Names .............................. 41 

      Reemployed Annuitants ..................................... 15 

      Rescinding of Review Committee Resolutions .................. 22 

      Use of the Spanish Language in the United States 

        District Court for the District of Puerto Rico ................. 37 

      Rescinding of 1963 Resolutions Relating to 

        Participation in Business Corporations by Judges ............. 25 

Review Committee: 

     Rescinding of 1963 Resolutions .............................. 22 

Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement. Uniform: 

     Rule XI-Periodic Assessment of Attorneys; 

     Registration Statements ..................................... 7 

     Rule XIJ~Payment of Fees and Costs ........................ 7 

Salaries: 

     Court Reporters ...........................................16 

     Limitation on Judge's Personal Staff. ......................                               is.     17 

Sentencing Institutes ........................................... 34 

Skopil. Honorable Otto R.-Election to the Board                                                        .. 

  of the Federal Judicial Center ................................ :'-48 

Speedy Trial Act of 1974: 

     Pretrial Services Agencies ................................... 35 

Statistics: 

     Bankruptcy Cases .......................................... 3 

     Courts of Appeals ................................... , ...... 3 

                                                   57

Statistics (cont'd)

     Criminal Justice Act ........................................ 38 

     District Courts .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 

     Intercircuit Assignments .................................... 45 

     Pretrial Services Agencies ................................... 35 

Supreme Court: 

     Appellate Jurisdiction of .................................... 13 

Transportation Expenses for Defendants in Criminal 

  Cases ...................................................... 37 

Virgin Islands Federal Relations Act .............................. 14 

Weinman. Carl A .. Sen;or United States District 

  Judge for the Southern District of Otlio and 

  Former Member of the Conference and Chairman 

  of the Budget Committee ...................................... 46 





                                                 '" u.s. G!M:RHM£/fT PRINTifIG OffIC[, 1919 -627- 513/1850
