          REPORT
             of the

   PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 





         March 5-6, 1980




         Washington, D.C.
              1980
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 



        William E. Foley 

            Director 

                    REPORT 

                        of the 

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 


JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

         UNITED STATES 


                   March 5-6, 1980




                    Washington, D.C.
                         1980




     For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
                Printing Office, Washington. D.C~ 20402
        THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF' THE UNITED STATES, 28 L.S.C. 331

§331.   JUDICIAL CO:-lFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES


  The Chief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of each
judicial circuit, the chief judge of the Court of Claims, the chief judge of the Court ofCus­
toms and Patent Appeals, and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at
such time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such
conference which shall be known as the Judicial Conference of the United States. Special
sessions of the conference may be called by the Chief Justice at such times and places as
he may designate.
  The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the circuit
and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held pur­
suant to section 333 of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for three
successive years, except that in the year following the enactment of this amended section
the judges in the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth circuits shall choose a district judge to
serve for one year, the judges in the second, fifth, and eighth circuits shall choose a district
judge to serve for two years and the judges in the third, sixth, ninth. and District of
Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for three years.
   If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit
is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon any other circuit or district judge from
such circuit. If the chief judge of the Court of Claims or the chief judge of the Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon an
associate judge of such court. Every judge summoned shall attend, and, unless excused by
the Chief Justice, shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to
the needs of his circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of which the administra­
tion of justice in the courts of the United States may be improved.
  The conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from cir­
cuits or districts where necessary, and shall submit suggestions to the various courts, in the
interest of uniformity and expedition of business.
   The conference shall also carryon a continuous study of the operation and effect of the
general rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as prescribed by the
Supreme Court for the other courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes
in and additions to those rules as the conference may deem desirable to promote simplicity
in procedure, fairness in administration, the just determination of litigation, and the elim­
ination of unjustifiable expense and delay shall be recommended by the conference from
time to time to the Supreme Court for its consideration and adoption, modification or
rejection, in accordance with law.
   The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice, report to such conference
on matters relating to the business of the several courts of the United States, with par­
ticular reference to cases to which the United States is a party.
  The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings of the
Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.



                                              (iv)
                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS 


         REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE JUDICIAL 

             CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES 


                                       March 5-6. 1980 


                                                                                                  Page

Call of the Conference ........................................ . 

Report of the Director of the Administrative 

  Office of the United States Courts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 

     Judicial Business of the Courts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 

Report of the Federal Judicial Center ............................. 4 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ......................... 4 

Committee on Court Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 

     Equal Employment Opportunity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 

     Printing of Opinions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 

     Miscellaneous Fee Schedules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6 

     Fees in the District of Columbia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7 

     Fees and Expenses of Attorneys Representing 

       Indigent Persons in Civil Rights Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7 

     Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1979 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8 

     Places of Holding Court. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9 

     Legislation Relating to Open Meetings of 

       the Judicial Conference of the United States 

       and the Judicial Councils of the Circuits .................... 10 

     Attorneys' Fees ............................................ 10 

     Venue in Courts of Appeals and District Courts ............... 11 

     Medical Privacy Act ....................................... 12 

     Registration of Civil Judgments ............................. 13 

     Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1979 ....................... 13 

    Customs Court Act of 1979 ................................. 14 

    Small Business Judicial Access Act of 1979 .................... 15 

    Court of Military Appeals .................................. 16 

     Imposition of Civil Money Penalties by 

       Administrative Agencies .................................. 16 

    Bumpers Amendment ...................................... 17 

    Court Reporters' Transcript Rates ........................... 17 

    Court Reporters-Private Reporting ......................... 19 



                                                (v)
                                  (vi)

Committee on Court Administration (cont'd.)
    Salaries of Secretaries ...................................... 20 

    Salaries of Chief Probation Officers .......................... 21 

    Appointment of Special ad hoc Subcommittee ................. 22 

Committee on the Budget ....................................... 22 

    Supplemental Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1980 ............. 22 

    Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1981 ...................... 22 

    Assistants to Circuit Executives .............................. 23 

    Court Security ............................................ 23 

Judicial Ethics Committee ...................................... 23 

    Activities of the Committee ................................. 24 

    Reports of Part-time United States Magistrates ................ 24 

     Reports by Senior Judges ................................... 25 

    Courts of the District of Columbia ........................... 25 

    Filing of Copies of Reports with Chief Judges ................. 25 

    Advisory Panel ............................................ 26 

    Assets of Spouses and Dependent Children .................... 26 

    Reporting Form and Instructions ............................ 26 

Advisory Panel on Financial Disclosure Reports 

  and Judicial Activities ........................................ 27 

    Activities of the Panel ...................................... 27 

    Codes of Conduct for Staff Attorneys, Circuit Executives and 

       Public Defenders ........................................ 27 

    Change of the Name of the Panel ................... , ........ 28 

    Membership in Clubs ...................................... 28 

Committee on the Administration of the Probation System .......... 29 

    Sentencing Institutes ....................................... 29 

    Pretrial Services Agencies ................................... 29 

Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System ........ 30 

    Salaries and Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges ............. 31 

    Guidelines in Chapter Xlll (Wage-Earner) Cases ............... 31 

     Retirement of Bankruptcy Judges ............................ 31 

Committee on the Administration of the Federal 

  Magistrates System .......................................... 32 

     Qualification Standards and Selection Procedures .............. 32 

     Legal Assistant Positions ................................... 32 

     Administrative Regulations ................................. 33 

     Small Business Judicial Access Act of 1979 .................... 34 

     Salaries of Full-time Magistrates ............................. 34 

     Changes in Magistrates' Positions ............................ 35 

     Authorization to Serve in Adjoining Districts .................. 40 

Committee on the Administration of the Criminal Law ............. 42 

     Criminal Code Revision .................................... 42 

     Capital Punishment ........................................ 43 

     Pretrial Release Legislation ................................. 43 

                                  (vii)

Committee on the Administration of the Criminal Law (cont'd.) 

     Pretrial Diversion .......................................... 43 

    Computer Systems Protection ............................... 44 

     In Camera Screening of Classified Information ................ 44 

     Computerized Dockets ..................................... 45 

Committee on the Operation of the Jury System ................... 45 

     Bilingual Court Legislation ................................. 45 

     Use of Voter Registration Lists .............................. 48 

     Juries in Bankruptcy Cases .................................. 48 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments ........................... 49 

Committee to Implement the Criminallustice Act. ................. 50 

     Appointments and Payments ................................ 50 

     Budget Request-Federal Public Defender .......... , .... , .... 51 

     Amendments to Criminal lustice Act Guidelines ............... 51 

    Obligation of Appointed Counsel to Disclose Client's Assets ..... 52 

     Appointment of Counsel-Civil Rights Cases .................. 53 

     Personal Liability of Federal Public Defenders ................. 53 

Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure .................... 54 

     Magistrates Rules .......................................... 54 

     Committee Documents ..................................... 54 

Ad Hoc Committee on the Disposition of Court Records ............ 55 

     Records of District Courts, Court of Claims, 

       Customs Court, Bankruptcy Courts, and Territorial 

       District Courts .......................................... 55 

     Records of the Courts of Appeals, Court of 

       Customs and Patent Appeals, Circuit Judicial Councils and 

       Circuit ludicial Conferences .............................. 55 

    Termination of the Work of the Committee ................... 56 

Elections ..................................................... 56 

Pretermission of Terms of Courts of Appeals ...................... 56 

Release of Conference Action ................................... 57 

         Report of the Proceedings 

               of the Judicial 

       Conference of the United States 


                          March 5-6, 1980

  The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on
March 5, 1980, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of
the United States, issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and
continued in session on March 6. The Chief Justice presided
and the following members of the Conference were present:

First Circuit:
     Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin
     Chief Judge Raymond J. Pettine, District of Rhode Island
Second Circuit:
    Chief Judge Irving R. Kaufman
    Chief Judge T. Emmet Clarie, District of Connecticut
Third Circuit:
    Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz
    Judge Alfred L. Luongo, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
Fourth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr.
    Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., Eastern District of Virginia
Fifth Circuit:
     Chief Judge James P. Coleman
     Chief Judge William C. Keady, Northern District of Mississippi
Sixth Circuit:
     Chief Judge George C. Edwards, Jr. 

     Chief Judge Charles M. Allen, Western District of Kentucky 

Seventh Circuit:
    Chief Judge Thomas E. Fairchild 

    Judge S. Hugh Dillin, Southern District of Indiana 

                                   2


Eighth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
    Judge Albert G. Schatz, District of Nebraska
Ninth Circuit:
    Chief Judge James R. Browning
    Chief Judge Ray McNichols, District of Idaho*
Tenth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Oliver Seth
    Chief Judge Howard C. Bratton, District of New Mexico
District of Columbia Circuit:
     Chief Judge J. Skelly Wright
     Chief Judge William B. Bryant, District of Columbia
Court of Claims:
   Chief Judge Daniel M. Friedman
Court of Customs and Patent Appeals:
   Chief Judge Howard T. Markey

  Circuit Judges Walter J. Cummings, Edward A. Tamm
and Gerald B. Tjoflat; Senior District Judges Thomas J.
MacBride, Charles M. Metzner, George L. Hart, Jr. and
Roszel C. Thomsen; and District Judges C. Clyde Atkins,
Robert E. DeMascio, Alexander Harvey II, Elmo B. Hunter,
and Robert E. Maxwell attended all or some of the sessions
of the Conference.
  The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable
Benjamin R. Civiletti, accompanied by the Deputy Attorney
General, Honorable Charles B. Renfrew, and the Solicitor
General, Honorable Wade H. McCree, addressed the Con­
ference briefly on matters of mutual interest to the Depart­
ment of Justice and the Conference.
   William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
Director; James E. Macklin, Jr., Assistant Director; and
Mark W. Cannon, Administrative Assistant to the Chief
Justice, attended all sessions of the Conference.
  The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo
Levin, reported on the activities of the Center since the last
session of the Conference.
*Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Judge Morell E. Sharp who
was unable to attend.
                               3

          REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE 

           ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

              UNITED STATES COURTS 


   The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, William E. Foley, requested, and the Confer­
ence approved, the immediate release of the written report
of the ad hoc Committee on the Oversight of the Adminis­
trative Office of the United States Courts, submitted by the
Chairman, Judge John D. Butzner, Jr. The report had been
prepared at the request of the Committee on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives.
  The Director was also authorized to transmit to the
Congress a study on the use of staff attorneys in the courts
of appeals, together with any comments thereon submitted
from the various circuits.

              JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

   Mr. Foley reported that appeals docketed in the United
States courts of appeals in the year ending December 31,
1979 increased more than 10 percent from the previous year
to a record 21,680 new appeals. There were 19,049 appeals
terminated during the year, 2,631 fewer than the number filed.
As a result the pending caseload increased 15 percent to a
record 20,034 appeals pending on December 31, 1979.
   During the calendar year· 1979 civil cases filed in the
United States district courts were 162,469, an increase of 13
percent over 1978. There were 151,465 civil cases terminated
during the year, an increase of 16,400 cases over the previous
year, but 11,000 cases less than the number filed. Civil cases
pending on the dockets of the district courts thus increased
to 184,104 on December 31, 1979.
   Criminal cases filed in the district courts declined to 30,106
during 1979. Although the 30,763 criminal cases disposed of
were 10 percent fewer than those disposed of last year, they
exceeded filings by 657 cases. Consequently, the pending
caseload declined to 14,662 cases on December 31, 1979, a
reduction of more than four percent.
   On October 1, 1979 the United States bankruptcy courts
began receiving bankruptcy case filings under the Bankruptcy
                              4


Reform Act of 1978. During the three-month period ending
December 31, 1979 there were 56,023 bankruptcy cases filed.
This compares with 55,275 cases filed under the old Bank­
ruptcy Act during the same three-month period in 1978.
While this comparison shows only a modest increase in the
number of cases filed under the new Bankruptcy Code, it is
somewhat misleading because joint petitions from husband
and wife under the new Code are filed as one case. Under
the old Act these petitions were filed as two cases. Data col­
lected during the three-month period indicates that approxi­
mately 23 percent of the bankruptcy case filings were joint
petitions; therefore, the 56,023 petitions filed under the new
Code were equivalent to approximately 68,900 case filings
under the old Bankruptcy Act.


               REPORT OF THE FEDERAL 

                  JUDICIAL CENTER 


   The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Professor A.
Leo Levin, reported that the district court workshops recently
conducted by the Center had been extremely well received.
Four of these workshops received the highest possible rating
by the judges in attendance. Currently the staff of the Cen­
ter is considering a proposal to develop a videotape presenta­
tion on work of the Center and the types of programs that
can be made available to the federal courts for their instruc­
tion and information.


        JUDICIAL PANEL ON MULTIDISTRICT 

                   LITIGATION 


   A report submitted on behalf of the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation indicated that during the six-month
period ending December 31, 1979 the Panel, in carrying out
its functions under 28 U.S.C. 1407, had conducted three
regularly scheduled hearings and had issued 27 major orders.
Fourteen new groups of multidistrict litigation were con­
sidered and the transfer of cases was ordered in 12 groups
encompassing 89 civil actions. Of these, 41 cases were trans­
                                    5


ferred for pretrial purposes and consolidated with 48 other
actions originally filed in the transferee districts. The Panel
denied transfer of two groups of cases consisting of ten
separate actions. During the same period 494 civil actions
were transferred by the Panel for inclusion in ongoing cen­
tralized pretrial hearings with previously transferred actions.
Since the creation of the Panel in 1968 there have been 7,369
civil actions centralized in pretrial proceedings under 28
U.S.C. §1407.


     COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

   Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration, presented the report of the Commit­
tee.

              EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

   At its September 1979 session (Conf. Rept., p. 58) the
Conference directed the Committee to prepare a model af­
firmative action plan for adoption by each federal court.
A plan, submitted by Jdge Hunter on behalf of the Com­
                           T

mittee, was approved by the Conference with certain amend­
ments. The plan will be circulated to all federal courts in
accordance with the resolution adopted by the Conference
last September, the last sentence of which was amended to
read as follows:
    Each federal court shall annually submit a report on the im­
    plementation of its affirmative action plan to the Administra­
    tive Office for evaluation. The report of that evaluation, as
    well as the court's report itself, shall be included in the Direc­
    tor's annual report to the Judicial Conference.


                      PRINTING OF OPINIONS

   The Appropriations Committee of the House of Represen­
tatives had requested the Administrative Office to explore
less costly means of printing the opinions of the United
States courts of appeals. Judge Hunter informed the Con­
ference that the Committee had reviewed a study prepared
                                 6


by the Administrative Office which presented a comprehen­
sive collection of information on the various methods and
costs of printing opinions. Upon recommendation of the
Committee the Conference directed that the Administrative
Office study be referred to the chief judges of the courts of
appeals for consideration at their next meeting to be held in
conjunction with the Judicial Conference and that the chief
judges of the circuits subsequently report to the Conference
with their recommendations.

               MISCELLANEOUS FEE SCHEDULES

   The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§1913 and 1914,
approved the foHowing change in the miscellaneous fee
schedules for the courts of appeals and district courts pre­
viously approved by the Conference, to clarify the application
of the fee for copy work to reproductions made from micro­
fiche or microfilm:
       For reproducing any record or paper 50 cents per page.
    This fee shall apply to paper copies made from either: (1)
    original documents; or (2) microfiche or microfilm reproduc­
    tions of the original records.
   This change was also made applicable to the schedule of
fees to be charged by clerks of the bankruptcy courts adopted
by the Conference in March 1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 11) pur­
suant to 28 U.S.C. 1930(b).
   The Conference further modified the schedule of special
charges under Sec. 4Oc(3) of the Bankruptcy Act in cases filed
prior to October 1, 1979 to make the charges contained
therein consistent with the charges authorized in the schedule
adopted pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1930(b), which was also
modified in the following respects:
    1. Changed the introduction to read:
         The scheduled charges for special services to be made
       under Section 40c(3) of the Bankruptcy Act for deposit to
       the Referees' Salary and Expense Fund and the miscel­
       laneous fees chargeable in bankruptcy cases filed after
       October 1, 1979, pursuant to 28 U.S.c. 1930(b) are as fol­
       lows (except that no fees are to be charged for services
       rendered on behalf of the United States):
                                      7


      2. Changed Item 7 of the schedule to read:
            For filing a complaint $60.00. If the United States, other
         than a United States Trustee, acting as trustee, in a case
         under title 11, is the plaintiff, no fee is required. If a
         trustee in a case under title II is the plaintiff, the fee shall
         be payable only from the estate and to the extent there
         is any estate realized.
      3. Added a new Item 9 to read:
            For each set of notices in cases filed under title II of the
         United States Code in excess of fifty notices per set, twenty­
         five cents for each additional notice. The fee shall be pay­
         able only from the estate and only to the extent there is an
         estate.



                FEES IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

     At its session in April, 1976 (Conf. Rept., p. 5) the Con­
  ference authorized the Director of the Administrative Office
  to transmit to the Congress a bill which would authorize the
. Judicial Conference to fix the fees to be allowed and the
  costs to be charged in the United States District Court for
  the District of Columbia, as it does in other district courts.
  No action was ever taken on the bill. Upon recommendation
  of the Committee, the Conference again authorized the Direc­
  tor to transmit the proposed legislation to the Congress.




       FEES AND EXPENSES OF ATTORNEYS REPRESENTING 

         INDIGENT PERSONS IN CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIONS 


   The Conference, upon recommendation of the Committee,
 authorized the appointment of an ad hoc subcommittee of
 the Court Administration Committee, with representatives
 from each of its existing subcommittees and with assistance
 from the Administrative Office and others as deemed neces­
 sary (such as paid consultants) to address the entire problem
 of fees and expenses of attorneys appointed to represent
 indigent persons in civil rights actions, and other expenses of
 such litigation.
                                8

        FEDERAL COURTS IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1979
   Judge Hunter informed the Conference that S. 1477, 96th
Congress, the Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1979, had
passed the Senate and is now pending before the Subcom­
mittee of the House Judiciary Committee chaired by Con­
gressman Kastenmeier. The provisions of the bill, as orig­
inally reported by the Senate Judiciary Committee, were
considered by the Conference at its September 1979 session
(Conf. Rept., p. 61).
   Upon recommendation of the Committee the Conference
took the following action relating to the provisions of the
bill as passed by the Senate:
   A. Selection and Tenure oj Chiej Judges. Reaffirmed its
approval of Part A of Title I of the bill which would provide
that the judge who is senior in commission, age 64 or under,
and who has served one year or more on the court shall be
the chief judge. A chief judge would serve for a term of
seven years or until attaining 70 years of age.
   B. Membership on Judicial Councils. Reaffirmed its ap­
proval of the provisions of Part C of Title I which would re­
structure the judicial councils of the circuits to provide for
district judge membership. The judicial council would con­
sist of the chief judge of the circuit and a number of circuit
and district judges to be fixed by majority vote of all circuit
judges in active service, provided that a minimum district
judge representation would be required. Terms of service
would be determined by the majority vote of the active cir­
cuit judges. The council would be given authority to conduct
hearings, take sworn testimony and to issue subpoenas.
   C. Retirement and Resignation oj Judges. Approved Part
D of Title I of the bill to permit a judge who resigns his of­
fice at age 64 with 15 years of service to continue to receive
an annuity equal to the salary which he was receiving when
he resigned.
   D. Assignment oj Judges to Managerial Positions. Reaf­
firmed its approval of Part E of Title I of the bill to authorize
the temporary assignment of an Article II I judge to a limited
number of managerial positions in the Judicial Branch of
Government.
                                9


   E. Interest on Judgments and Prejudgment Interest. The
Conference previously endorsed a provision of Part C of
Title II of the bill which would amend 28 U.S.c. 1961 to
authorize a court to award interest on civil money judgments
measured "from the time that the party against whom
damages have been awarded became aware of his potential
liability or from the time he should have become aware of
such liability, but, in any case, not to exceed a period of five
years." The Conference, however, questioned a provision
of the bill that would link the interest rate to Section 6621
of the Internal Revenue Code and directed the Committee to
consider other possible methods of fixing interest rates.
Judge Hunter pointed out that the interest rates under the
Internal Revenue Code, as determined by the Secretary of the
Treasury, are readily available to everyone and provide a
desirable measure of stability in determining the amount of
the interest rate. The Committee had considered other
methods for determining and fixing interest rates to be charged
under Section 1961 of title 28 and believes that the method
set out in the bill is more practical. Upon. recommendation
of the Committee, the Conference approved the provisions
of Part C of Title II of the bill.

                 PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

   H.R. 5924 and H.R. 6060, 96th Congress, would amend
28 U.S.c. 84(c) to designate Santa Ana as an additional place
of holding court for the United States District Court for the
Central District of California. Similar bills, H.R. 5697 and
H.R. 5789, would create a new division within the district
consisting of Orange, Riverside, and San Bernadino Coun­
ties. One of these bills would designate Santa Ana as a place
of holding court and the other would designate Riverside as
a place of holding court. Judge Hunter informed the Con­
ference that the district court and the judicial council of the
circuit prefer the designation of Santa Ana as a place of
holding court rather than the creation of a new division with­
in the district. Upon recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved the provisions of H.R. 5924 and H.R.
6060.
                               10

       LEGISLATION RELATING TO OPEN MEETINGS OF 

         THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED 

    STATES AND THE JUDICIAL COUNCILS OF THE CIRCUITS 


   The Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
Improvements in Judicial Machinery, Senator DeConcini,
had previously requested the views of the Conference on a
draft bill to require all meetings of the Judicial Conference
of the United States, its committees and subcommittees, and
all meetings of the judicial councils of the circuits to be con­
ducted in open public session. Subsequently, a bill, S. 2045,
96th Congress, which embodies the provisions of the draft
bill, was introduced in the Senate. The Conference, after full
discussion, voted to express its strong opposition to the en­
actment of S. 2045 and authorized Judge Hunter in his testi­
mony before Senator DeConcini to express grave reserva­
tions as to the constitutionality of the bill based on separa­
tion of powers principles.

                      ATTORNEYS' FEES

   H.R. 5342, 96th Congress, entitled the "Equal Access to
Justice Act" provides for an award of costs and attorneys'
fees to certain prevailing parties (individuals whose net worth
does not exceed $1,000,000 and corporations whose net
worth does not exceed $5,000,000) in proceedings before ad­
ministrative agencies that are subject to Section 554 of title
5, United States Code, and in any civil action brought by or
against the United States in any court having jurisdiction of
such action.
   In September 1979 the Committee reported its view on
a similar bill, S. 265, 96th Congress, that the question of
awarding attorneys' fees in agency and court proceedings
is a matter of public policy for the determination of the
Congress, but pointed out that a piecemeal approach to this
issue is eroding the "prevailing American Rule" requiring
parties in civil litigation to pay their own attorneys' fees,
without thorough study of the potential consequences. The
Conference then approved the Committee's suggestion that
before any new authority to award attorneys' fees is enacted,
the Congress be requested to conduct general hearings on
                              11 


the desirability of further modifying the "prevailing Ameri­
can Rule" so that the views of the bar and the public general­
ly can be elicited. The Conference, upon recommendation of
the Committee, renewed this recommendation but also sug­
gested that the Congress explore the advisability and con­
stitutionality of classifying parties by net worth and the dif­
ficulties and impact on the courts of determining net worth.
   In its last report the Committee also expressed concern
about the provision in S. 265 (also contained in H.R. 5342)
requiring the Director of the Administrative Office to report
attorneys' fees assessed by courts which are to be paid by
other agencies of the Federal Government. Upon further
consideration the Committee now believes that if the collec­
tion of information on the awarding of attorneys' fees
against the Government is to be required, it would be appro­
priate for the Administrative Office to undertake this respon­
sibility.


    VENUE IN COURTS OF ApPEALS AND DISTRICT COURTS

   S. 739 and H.R. 5130, 96th Congress, are bills relating to
venue in cases in the district courts and on appeal, or on re­
view of administrative proceedings in the courts of appeals.
Both bills appear to be motivated by concerns of proper
venue in environmental cases. Although questions of venue
in particular types of cases are matters of policy for Congres­
sional determination, Judge Hunter reported the views of
the Committee that the more narrowly drawn bill, H.R. 5130,
is preferable to S. 739 since it is not possible to determine
the effect of a broad amendment to the venue statutes.
   The Committee suggested, however, the deletion of the
words "in which the impact or alleged injury is less than na­
tionwide" from the proposed new Section 1409. It appeared
to the Committee that these words add nothing and might
invite contentions that the district of impact is not a proper
venue because the injury is nationwide and the district of
impact does not satisfy the general venue statutes. The Com­
mittee also believed that Section 1295 should be amended to
say "a judicial circuit" rather than "the judicial circuit" to
avoid any implication that there can be only one such circuit.
                              12 


Further, the Committee believed that amending Section 2343
of title 28, as proposed in S. 739, is preferable to adding a
new Section 1295 to the Code. At the request of Judge
Hunter the Conference authorized the transmission of the
Committee's views to the appropriate Congressional com­
mittees.

                   MEDICAL PRIVACY ACT

   H.R. 5935, 96th Congress, is a bill to protect the privacy
of medical information maintained by medical care facilities
in order to protect the patient's right to privacy in and to
medical information about him. The stated purposes of the
bill are (1) to establish procedures allowing a patient to in­
spect and correct medical information; (2) to define the cir­
cumstances under which individually identifiable medical in­
formation may be disclosed either with or without the con­
sent of the patient; and (3) to make it a crime to request or
obtain medical information from medical care facilities
under false pretenses. Involuntary disclosures may be made
by the medical care facility pursuant to the Federal Rules of
Civil and Criminal Procedure, or comparable rules of other
courts or administrative agencies, in connection with litiga­
tion to which the patient is a party and pursuant to a grand
jury subpoena, administrative summons, subpoena, or war­
rant. In addition there are certain other specific exemptions
including the release of medical information to which law
enforcement authorities are entitled.
   The Committee notes that the bill contains no provision
permitting the disclosure of medical information to a proba­
tion officer or pretrial services officer, nor does it authorize
disclosure of medical information to a federal public defen­
der or defense counsel in a criminal case in a situation in
which the patient is not a party to litigation. It was the view
of the Committee that section 127(a) of the bill should be
amended to authorize disclosure of medical information to a
probation officer or pretrial services officer, and that Sec­
tion 131 (a) should be amended by striking the words "to
which the patient is a party" so as to permit a federal public
defender or defense counsel to obtain medical information
in connection with a criminal case.
                               13 


  The Committee recommended that the Conference ex­
press no view on the desirability of the legislation, but if en­
acted, the bill be amended as recommended above. This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.

             REGISTRATION OF CIVIL JUDGMENTS

   Judge Hunter indicated that some district courts have had
difficulty interpreting 28 U.S. C. 1963 which permits the
registration and execution of a civil judgment in another
district provided that the original judgment "has become
final by appeal or expiration of time for appeal." The problem
arises when an appellant fails to file a supersedeas bond pur­
suant to Rule 62(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
and the decision on appeal is long delayed to the detriment
of the prevailing party. The Uniform Enforcement of Foreign
Judgments Act, now adopted in 16 states, permits the filing
of any foreign judgment, unless the judgment debtor fur­
nishes security required for the satisfaction of the judgment.
Upon recommendation of the Committee the Director of the
Administrative Office was authorized to draft and submit to
Congress a suitable bill to amend 28 U.S.C. 1963 to incor­
porate the procedures of the Uniform Act.

          F AIR   HOUSING AMENDMENTS ACT OF      1979
   S. 506 and H.R. 5200, 96th Congress, are bills to amend
Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 to revise the pro­
cedures for the enforcement of fair housing and for other
purposes. The bills would provide several types of enforce­
ment procedures. The Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development would be authorized to consider a
complaint filed by an aggrieved person and conduct a pre­
liminary hearing into the matter. Based upon this preliminary
inquiry, the Secretary could then file a formal administrative
complaint, conduct a hearing, and issue an order providing
appropriate relief. The final order of the Secretary would
be reviewable in the appropriate United States court of ap­
peals.
   The aggrieved person may, however, commence a civil
action in an appropriate United States district court, or state
                               14 


court, at any time not later than two years after the alleged
discriminatory practice occurred or terminated. In that event
the Secretary may not commence or continue a proceeding
unless the Secretary has already commenced a hearing on
the record with respect to that complaint. The Attorney
General of the United States may intervene in any civil action
if he certifies that the case is of general public importance and
may bring a separate civil action against any person or group
of persons engaged in a pattern or practice of resistence to
fair housing rights.
   It was the view of the Committee that the enforcement
procedures of the bill are appropriate, except that the ag­
grieved person who files a complaint with the Secretary
should not then be permitted to file a civil action in a district
court based on the same complaint until the administrative
proceeding had been concluded and the aggrieved person
had exhausted his administrative remedies. The Conference,
upon recommendation of the Committee, took no position
regarding the merits of the proposed legislation, but recom­
mended an amendment to the bill requiring an aggrieved
person who commences an administrative proceeding to ex­
haust administrative remedies before commencing a civil ac­
tion in a state or Federal court.

                CUSTOMS COURT ACT OF       1979
   S. 1654, 96th Congress, is a bill to improve federal judicial
machinery by clarifying and revising certain provisions of the
Judicial Code relating to the judiciary and to the judicial
review of international trade matters. The bill would give
the United States Customs Court, to be renamed the "United
States Court of International Trade," jurisdiction in any civil
action arising directly out of an import transaction and in­
volving one of the specified statutes concerned with interna­
tional trade, or a case involving a provision of the Constitu­
tion, a treaty of the United States, an executive agreement
or an executive order which directly and substantially in­
volves international trade. The court would have all the
powers and functions of a United States district court, in­
cluding the power to grant equitable relief, but would be
authorized to transfer a case involving a party who desires a
                              15 


jury trial to a local United States district court.
  Upon recommendation of the Committee the Conference
approved the bill.


       SMALL BUSINESS JUDICIAL ACCESS ACT OF 1979
   H.R. 5103, 96th Congress, is a bill to provide for better
access to the federal courts for small businesses and others
with small to moderate size claims and to expand the duties
of the Office of Advocacy of the Small Business Administra­
tion. The purposes of the bill are threefold: (1) to improve
class damage procedures for the benefit of small businesses
and other injured persons while preserving class action re­
lief; (2) to provide rapid and inexpensive court review of
administrative fines and penalties affecting small businesses;
and (3) to compensate small businesses and other injured
persons for delayed remedies.
   Title I of the bill would create two new types of action-a
public action and a class compensatory action. In this regard
the bill is virtually identical to a draft bill prepared in the
Office of Improvements in the Administration of Justice in
the Department of Justice and considered by the Conference
at its session in September 1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 68). At that
time the Conference disapproved the compensation provisions
of the bill through a public recovery fund as inappropriate
for administration by any public agency, including the
Director of the Administrative Office or the office of the
clerk of a district court. The Conference suggested in lieu
thereof a penalty provision depriving a person of the fruits
of unlawful conduct, or the use of a "fluid recovery" as an
alternative to the payment of damages. The Conference also
recommended that claims of less than $15 not be paid be­
cause of the costs of administration. The Conference voted
to reaffirm these views.
   Title II of the bill would require that district court pro­
ceedings involving small civil penalties levied against small
businesses be conducted by a United States magistrate. This
matter was referred to the Committee on the Administration
of the Federal Magistrates System and is discussed later in
this report.
                                 16 


                 COURT OF MILITARY ApPEALS

   Judge Hunter stated that the Department of Defense had
submitted to the Congress a draft bill to reconstitute the
Court of Military Appeals as an independent court under
Article 1 of the Constitution of the United States. The bill
would increase the number of judgeships from three to five,
authorize full I5-year terms for each appointee, and permit
review of decisions of the court by the United States Supreme
Court on writ of certiorari. The Committee expressed no
opinion with regard to review by the Supreme Court on writ
of certiorari, suggesting that this is a matter to be considered
by the Supreme Court, but did note that the bill continues a
provision of existing law, 10 U.S.C. 867(a)(3), authorizing
the President of the United States in the event of an emer­
gency to designate a judge of the United States Court of Ap­
peals for the District of Columbia Circuit to sit temporarily
as a judge of the Court of Military Appeals. In its 25-year his­
tory this provision of the statute has never been invoked.
The Committee recommended that the last sentence of Sec­
tion 943(b) of the bill be deleted. This recommendation was
approved by the Conference.



            IMPOSITION OF CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES 

                BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCIES 


  The Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the
United States had submitted to the Chief Justice a copy of
Administrative Conference Recommendation 79-3 which calls
upon administrative agencies to establish standards for the
determination of a penalty amount, and recommends stan­
dards for conducting proceedings to determine the initial
assessment of penalties and their mitigation. The recom­
mendation also asks agencies to conduct evidentiary hearings
so that a "de novo proceeding upon judicial review could be
avoided." Finally, the Administrative Conference addressed
the following recommendation to the courts:
       Where such a hearing procedure has in fact been observed
     by the agency, and the statute does not provide for de novo
     judicial proceedings, the court should ordinarily utilize a
                               17 


    limited scope of judicial review of such agency action im­
    posing civil money penalties.
  At the suggestion of the Committee the Conference took
no action on this recommendation since it involves a question
of statutory interpretation for each court to consider.



                    BUMPERS AMENDMENT

   S. 1477, 96th Congress, contains an amendment to the
scope and review section of the Administrative Procedure
Act, 5 U.S.C. 706, which would alter the standard of judi­
cial review applied in resolving legal issues raised in chal­
lenges to agency action under the Act. Various interpreta­
tions have been placed on the meaning of the amendment
and its practical effect. The Conference was advised that the
provision is being strongly opposed by the Department of
Justice, the Administrative Conference of the United States,
and various federal administrative agencies.
   The Committee believed that the amendment would cer­
tainly generate litigation involving basic interpretations of its
purpose and recommended that Congress be urged to clarify
the intended purpose to be served. The Committee also be­
lieved that if agencies are required to establish that every
rule or regulation is founded upon a legal basis, caseloads
will probably increase. In addition, if agencies are also re­
quired to prove reasonableness by a preponderance of the
evidence, the resolution of many cases will probably become
more time-consuming.
   The Conference, on recommendation of the Committee,
authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to con­
vey the views of the Committee to the Congress.



           COURT REPORTERS' TRANSCRIPT RATES

  The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 753(t) authorized
district courts to prescribe fees which court reporters may
charge and collect for transcripts requested by the parties,
including the United States, at the following maximum rates:
                                       18

                    MAXIMUM TRANSCRIPT RATES
                                                            Each Additional
                                            First Copy to     Copy to the
                            Original         Each Party       Same Party
  Original Transcript
A transcript to be
delivered within thirty
(30) calendar days after
receipt of an order.         $2.00              $ .50            $ .25
Expedited Transcript
A transcript to be
delivered within seven
(7) calendar days after
receipt of an order ....      2.50                .50              .25
Daily Transcript
A transcript to be
delivered following ad­
journment and prior to
the normal opening
hour of the court on
the following morning
whether or not it actual­
ly be a court day .....       3.00                .50              .25
Hourly Transcript
A transcript of pro­
ceedings ordered under
unusual circumstances
to be delivered within
two (2) hours ........        3.50                .50              .25
   In setting the transcript rates to be charged by court re·
porters in each area the district court should look to com­
parable services rendered in state courts and consider setting
the transcript rates in their courts to coincide with any lower
comparable state rate. No other types of transcripts are
authorized. other than those defined above.
   Litigants and parties have the privilege and right to order
transcripts at the rates fixed by each district court, not to ex­
ceed the above maximum rates. A notice of the rates estab­
lished by the district courts and of the reporter's obligation
to furnish transcripts at those rates and under those condi­
tions shall be published in a conspicuous place or otherwise
disseminated to the public.
                                   19 


   During the course of its deliberations, the Committee con­
sidered and concurred in the following resolution received
from the Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act
which was submitted to and approved by the Conference:
       That the furnishing of accelerated transcript services in
    criminal proceedings should be discouraged, however,
    recognizing that there are some circumstances in which such
    transcript services are necessary and required by either the
    prosecution or the defense, or both, accelerated transcript
    services may be provided.
       That in those cases where accelerated transcript services are
    provided, the party from whom the request or order emanates
    shall pay for the original, and if the requesting or ordering
    party is other than defense counsel appointed under the Crim­
    inal Justice Act, the CJA counsel shall be entitled to a copy
    at the copy rate.
       That the present practice, in some districts, of routinely ap­
    portioning the total cost of transcript services equally among
    the parties obtaining such services should be abandoned.

          COURT REPORTERS-PRIVATE REPORTING

   Judge Hunter stated that the Committee has been con­
cerned over the number of official court reporters engaged
in separate private reporting business ventures who are utilizing
substitute reporters on a regular basis to perform their offi­
cial duties. A survey indicated that the majority of the
district judges are of the view that their court reporters who
are engaged in private reporting do not neglect their official
duties. The survey, however, identified ten court reporters
who in 1978 spent less time in court than their substitutes.
Two reporters did not spend any time in court during two
calendar years. In that time all required services were per­
formed solely and exclusively by substitutes. Nevertheless,
these reporters derived all the fringe benefits given to govern­
ment employees.
   The Committee recommended that the matter of outside
reporting continue to be left to the discretion of each indivi­
dual court; however, where there is a conflict between offi­
cial and private reporting, the reporter should be required to
postpone any outside work. The Committee further recom­
mended that the Conference, as a matter of policy, discour­
                              20 


age the use of substitute reporters, and limit such use to
daily copy work, absence due to illness, vacations, and other
similar circumstances beyond the control of the reporter.
Where the arrangement with the reporter clearly constitutes
a contractual one, the relationship of employer and employee
should be terminated and a reporting contract executed.
These recommendations were approved by the Conference.

   The Committee also noted a substantial variance in the
amount of time court reporters spend reporting official pro­
ceedings indicating that some reporters are not fully occupied.
It was the view of the Committee that under-utilized reporters
should be made available for the recording of proceedings
before magistrates, senior judges, visiting judges, and land
commissioners to minimize or obviate the need for reportorial
services on a contractual basis. The Committee suggested that
courts consider pooling their court reporter resources and
rotating the assignment of reporters in order to equalize their
workload.

  The Committee recommended that the Conference, as a
matter of policy, encourage multi-judge district courts,
whenever feasible, to consider a pool system for court re­
porters, and to designate a lead reporter to serve as a coor­
dinator and to report on matters relating to reportorial
services.
  These recommendations were approved by the Conference.




                  SALARIES OF SECRET ARIES

   Judge Hunter stated that due to changes in the law, par­
ticularly the new Bankruptcy Act, the amendments to the
Federal Magistrates Act, and various resolutions of the Judi­
cial Conference, the system of setting the grades of secre­
taries to court officers has been disrupted. The Conference,
on recommendation of the Committee, and subject to the
availability of appropriated funds, established the following
maximum grades for secretarial positions in court offices:
                                            21

        Court Officer                             Maximum Authorized Secretarial
                                                            Salary

Judge                                                            JSP-IO/ lJ *
Circuit Executive                                                JSP-IO
Circuit Judge (Ass't. Secty)                                     JSP-9
Magistrate                                                       JSP-9
Clerk of Court                                                   JSP-9**
Chief Probation Officer                                          JSP-8
Senior Staff Attorney                                            JSP-8


               SALARIES OF CHIEF PROBATION OFFICERS

   Judge Hunter stated that the classification of chief proba­
tion officer positions has remained basically unchanged
since approval of the Judiciary Salary Plan by the Judicial
Conference in 1961 and its implementation in 1964. The
only exception was the passage of the Speedy Trial Act
which authorized salaries not to exceed grade GS-16 for the
chiefs of the five probation offices having a Pretrial Services
Agency established on a demonstration basis under the Act.
It was pointed out that the duties of chief probation officers
have not only increased over the past 18 years, but have
grown more complex as a result of legal concerns for the
protection of the rights of offenders and added responsibilities
such as providing drug dependent after-care services and ad­
ministering aftercare contracts. Furthermore, the salaries of
chief probation officers, particularly in a large district, are
no longer comparable to clerks of court.
   Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
raised the grade level of positions of chief probation officers
in small, medium and large courts from grades JSP 13, 14,
and 15, to grades JSP 14, 15, and 16 with a proviso that
neither the salary of any chief probation officer nor of any
subordinate personnel in the probation office shall exceed
the salary of level 5 of the Executive Schedule or the maxi­
"Eligibility for grade JSP-li requires a minimum of eight years experience as a secretary 

to a federal judge, seven of which must have been at grade JSP-IO. 

"Regardless of size; provided the clerk of court has been delegated and performs all or 

substantially all of the duties in the clerk's mission and function statement approved by the 

Conference and the secretary has responsibility for expanded administrative functions. 

such as personnel, procurement, and budget. 

                               22 


mum salary for circuit executives, less $2,000, whichever is
smaller. These changes are subject to Congressional authoriza­
tion of appropriated funds.

     ApPOINTMENT OF A SPECIAL AD HOC SUBCOMMITTEE

   Judge Hunter indicated the need for the appointment of a
special ad hoc Subcommittee of the Committee on Court
Administration to consider two bills pending in the Congress,
a bill relating to interlocutory appeals and a bill to curtail
service of process by U.S. marshals in private civil litigation.
No objection was made to the appointment of such a com­
mittee.


             COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

   Chief Judge Robert E. Maxwell, Chairman of the Commit­
tee on the Budget, presented the report of the Committee.

SUPPLEMENTAL ApPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR           1980
  Judge Maxwell informed the Conference that requests for
supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year 1980 in the
amount of $25,961,000 to cover the general salary increase
granted last October had been submitted to the Congress.
The amount included for the pay increases of judges was
computed at the rate of 12.9 percent in view of the litigation
currently pending in the courts.

         ApPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR       1981
   Judge Maxwell also informed the Conference that the
budget estimates for the fiscal year 1981, approved by the
Conference last September, had been submitted to the
Congress and that hearings thereon were conducted by the
House Appropriations Subcommittee on February 5, 1980
and by the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on February
7, 1980. The Committee recommended that the Director of
the Administrative Office be authorized to amend the budget
for the fiscal year 1981 to request funding because of new
                                  23 


legislation or because of any action of the Conference at this
session, or for any other reason the Director considers neces­
sary and appropriate. There was no objection to this pro­
cedure.

              ASSIST ANTS TO CIRCUIT EXECUTIVES

  The Conference was also informed that the budget requests
for the fiscal year 1981 included funds to provide Assistant
Circuit Executive positions to serve the 15 major metropolitan
district courts. In this regard, the Conference adopted the
following resolution:
      Any assistant to a circuit executive appointed pursuant to
    an appropriation authorized by the budget for the fiscal year
    1981 for any metropolitan district court shall be selected by
    and be subject to the direction of the judges of the district
    court for the relevant district in accordance with the selection
    procedures provided in 28 U.S.C. 332.

                         COURT SECURITY

  The Conference considered problems relating to court­
room and courthouse security and adopted the following
resolution:
       The judiciary has continuously experienced inadequate
    courtroom and courthouse security. Various arrangements in
    which the Executive Branch provides security services have
    differed in terms of effectiveness and adequacy of resources.
    The inadequate control by the judiciary over the function,
    the inadequate resources provided to do the job, and, in some
    cases, the minimal utility of the protection provided indicate
    the need for the judiciary to address this problem. The Con­
    ference authorizes the Administrative Office to explore with
    appropriate Congressional offices, the possibility of the judi­
    ciary having control of its own security personnel.




             JUDICIAL ETHICS COMMITTEE

   Judge Edward A. Tamm, Chairman of the statutory Judi­
cial Ethics Committee, presented the report of the Committee.
                              24 


               ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE

   Judge Tamm informed the Conference that the Committee
had reviewed 1,564 financial disclosure reports filed during
the calendar year 1979 and that, in addition, the Committee
had reviewed 179 report forms filed by nominees to judgeship
positions. Thus, the Committee was required to review ap­
proximately 1,743 financial disclosure reports filed during
the year. Judge Tamm also pointed out that as of February
29 the Committee had addressed 1,019 letters to reporting
individuals including 587 letters relating to errors and omis­
sions in filed report forms. Judge Tamm indicated that in
the future the Committee may require additional staffing to
support its activities.
   In May 1979 a United States district judge in New Orleans
had enjoined the public disclosure of financial disclosure
forms. Because of this action, the Committee had not made
any financial disclosure statements available to the public
since receiving notice of the order of the court, nor has the
Committee referred to the Attorney General any case involv­
ing the non-filing of a financial disclosure report. Further
action by the Committee awaits the final disposition of the
civil proceedings in this case.

    REPORTS OF PART-TIME UNITED STATES MAGISTRATES

  A recent amendment to the Ethics in Government Act
authorizes the Judicial Ethics Committee to exempt an indivi­
dual who is "not reasonably expected to perform the duties
of his office or position for more than 60 days in a calen­
dar year" from the requirement of filing a financial disclosure
report within 30 days of assuming the position of "judicial
employee," or within 30 days after termination of employ­
ment. An individual who does not perform the duties of his
position or office for a period in excess of 60 days is not re­
quired to file the annual report required to be submitted by
May 15 of each year. In accordance with this provision, the
Committee has determined that part-time United States
magistrates receiving salaries in levels 1 through 7 of the
salary schedule for part-time United States magistrates, ap­
proved by the Conference in September 1979 (Conf. Rept.,
                              25 


p. 83), are not reasonably expected to perform the duties of
their office for more than 60 days in a calendar year and
therefore are not required to file financial disclosure reports
within 30 days of assuming their positions (Sec. 301(a» nor
within 30 days of termination of employment (Sec. 301(d».

                 REPORTS BY SENIOR JUDGES

   The Conference endorsed the view of the Committee that
every senior judge who has been certified as performing sub­
stantial judicial services during the year must file the finan­
cial disclosure report required by the statute. A senior judge
who relinquishes his staff and assumes full retirement must
file a financial disclosure statement within 30 days of assum­
ing full retirement, as required by Sec. 301(d) of the Ethics
in Government Act, but thereafter need not file the annual
report required by Sec. 301(c) of the Act.

           COURTS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

   The Ethics in Government Act of 1978, Sec. 308(9), de­
fines a "judicial officer" as including judges of the "courts
of the District of Columbia." Judges of these local courts,
however, are not subject to the jurisdiction of the Judicial
Conference of the United States. The Conference shared the
view of the Committee that the financial disclosure reports
of the judges of these courts should be filed with some entity
within the District of Columbia government, such as the
Judicial Disability Commission, and voted to request a
change in the statute to place the courts of the District of
Columbia under a separate reporting system.

     FILING OF COPIES OF REPORTS WITH CHIEF JUDGES

  Reports submitted under the Ethics in Government Act of
1978 are required to be filed only with the Judicial Ethics
Committee and the clerk of the court on which the indivi­
dual sits or serves. Judge Tamm reported the view of the
Committee that no change should be made by statute or
regulation requiring that a copy of the report be filed with
the chief judge of each court.
                               26

                       ADVISORY PANEL

   At its March 1979 session (Conf. Rept., p. 23) the Con­
ference "authorized the Chief Justice to appoint an Advisory
Panel of the Conference to respond to requests from report­
ing individuals for advice and assistance on problems relating
to reporting under the Ethics in Government Act of 1978
..." In September 1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 80) the Confer­
ence assigned to the Panel so appointed "the responsibility
of rendering advisory opinions on the various codes of con­
duct, a function previously performed by the predecessor
Committee on Judicial Activities." The provisions of the
Ethics in Government Act, however, (28 U.S.C. App. 1, §§
303(a), 303(c) and 306(a» place exclusive responsibility on
the Judicial Ethics Committee, subject to the jurisdiction of
the Conference, to deal with all questions in the judiciary
arising under the Act including the rendering or issuing of
advisory opinions. The Conference, upon recommendation
of the Committee, rescinded the resolution of March 1979
giving this responsibility to a separate advisory panel. The
existing Panel, however, will continue to render advisory
opinions on questions arising under the various codes of
conduct.


       ASSETS OF SPOUSES AND DEPENDENT CHILDREN

   Judge Tamm informed the Conference that the Committee
believes that the listing of assets held by the spouses and
dependent children of reporting individuals is sufficient with­
out a public disclosure of the "category of value" of the
assets so held. The Conference agreed and voted to recom­
mend to the Congress that consideration be given to amend­
ing the statute to allow reporting individuals to list the assets
of spouses and dependent children without indicating the
value of such holdings.

             REPORTING FORM AND INSTRUCTIONS

   In accordance with Sec. 303(c) of the Ethics in Govern­
ment Act of 1978, the Conference approved a revised finan­
cial disclosure reporting form and instructions submitted by
                              27 


the Committee. The Director of the Administrative Office
was requested to print the new form and instructions forth­
with and distribute them promptly to those individuals re­
quired to file annual reports by May 15, 1980.


  ADVISORY PANEL ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
      REPORTS AND JUDICIAL ACTIVITIES

  Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the Advisory
Panel on Financial Disclosure Reports and Judicial Activities
presented the report of the Panel.

                  ACTIVITIES OF THE PANEL

   Since its inception in April 1979 the Panel has responded to
41 financial disclosure inquiries and 35 inquiries pertaining
to the various codes of conduct. As of February 12, there
were nine code inquiries pending. At the present time, the
Panel is preparing five opinions for publication. Judge
Markey also stated that the Panel is interchanging code ad­
visory opinions with 17 states and is maintaining a file on
court opinions relating to codes of conduct.

    CODES OF CONDUCT FOR STAFF ATTORNEYS, CIRCUIT 

           EXECUTIVES AND PUBLIC DEFENDERS 


   In September 1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 81) the Conference
approved the promulgation of codes of conduct for circuit
executives, staff attorneys and public defenders with instruc­
tions that all three provisions of these codes pertaining to
the practice of law be uniform with that for staff attorneys
which would permit the private practice of law on a limited
basis. Public defenders, however, are precluded from "en­
gaging in the private practice of law" by 18 U .S.C. §3006A
(h)(2)A. Thus uniformity would be achievable only by a
total prohibition of the practice of law by circuit executives
and staff attorneys. Upon recommendation of the Panel, the
Conference approved the codes of conduct for circuit execu­
tives and staff attorneys permitting limited law practice by
them and a code of conduct for public defenders which
                                  28 


precludes such practice in accordance with the prohibition
in the statute.
   The codes of conduct for clerks of court, probation offi­
cers, employees of the Administrative Office, and the Federal
Judicial Center currently forbid the practice of law. Upon
recommendation of the Panel, the Conference directed that
these provisions be continued.

             CHANGE OF THE NAME OF THE PANEL

  The Conference, upon recommendation of the Panel,
changed its name to "The Advisory Committee on Codes of
Conduct.' ,

                      MEMBERSHIP IN CLUBS

   The Conference considered fully a proposal submitted by
the Advisory Panel that would prohibit a judge from being
a member of a club which limits membership on the basis of
the applicant's race, sex, religion, or national origin. After
full discussion the Conference adopted the following resolu­
tion:
       The Judicial Conference of the United States endorses the
    principle that it is inappropriate for a judge to hold member­
    ship in an organization that practices invidious discrimination.
       The Advisory Panel on Financial Disclosure Reports and
    Judicial Activities is requested to consider whether the Judi­
    cial Conference should adopt a canon of judicial ethics or
    take other action to further this principle. In view of the
    desirability of parallel provisions in the Code of Judicial Con­
    duct for United States Judges and the American Bar Associa­
    tion Code of Judicial Conduct, the Advisory Panel in con­
    sidering this question is requested to consult with the appro­
    priate committees of the American Bar Association.
       If the Advisory Panel concludes that a statement reflecting
    this principle is appropriate, as a canon or in another form,
    the Advisory Panel is directed to draft a proposal for con­
    sideration of the Conference. For the reasons stated in the
    preceding paragraph, the Advisory Panel is requested to con­
    sult with the appropriate committees of the American Bar
    Association with regard to the wording of any proposed
    canon or other statement of this principle.
                                    29 


       The Advisory     Panel is directed to submit any proposal to
    all United States   judges for their comments and suggestions.
       The Advisory      Panel shall submit its recommendations to
    the next meeting    of the Judicial Conference.


  COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
            PROBATION SYSTEM

  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Probation System was presented by the Chairman, Judge
Gerald B. Tjoflat.

                        SENTENCING INSTITUTES

   The Committee submitted to the Conference a plan for a
joint institute on sentencing for the judges of the Seventh
and Ninth Circuits to be held in November 1980 at a site
near a Federal correctional institution in California. The
tentative agenda is modeled after the agenda for the joint
institute on sentencing for the judges of the Third and Sixth
circuits which is scheduled to be held in Lexington, Kentucky
in May 1980. The Conference approved the agenda and par­
ticipants for this joint sentencing institute, subject to the
selection of a date and location which are to be reported to
the Conference at its next session.


                 PRETRIAL SERVICES AGENCIES

  Title II of the Speedy Trial Act of 1974 required the Di­
rector of the Administrative Office to file a comprehensive
report with the Congress on or before July 1, 1979 regarding
the administration and operation of the pretrial services
agencies established in ten demonstration districts. In March
1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 35) the Conference authorized the
Committee to exercise continued oversight of the completion
of the Director's report and to authorize, on behalf of the
Conference, the release of the Director's report to the
Congress. The final report, which recommended continuation
of the program under Judicial Conference supervision, was
                                   30 


issued on June 29, 1979 and copies were provided to the
members of the Conference.
   Congressional action is now required if the program, cur­
rently funded through June 1980, is to be continued. An­
ticipating that Congress will hold hearings before then, the
Committee submitted the following resolution which was ap­
proved by the Conference:
       The Committee on the Administration of the Probation
    System of the Judicial Conference of the United States has
    reviewed the report of the Director of the Administrative Of­
    fice of the United States Courts on the experiment with Pre­
    trial Services Agencies created by Title II of the Speedy Trial
    Act of 1974.
       That repor} states that judges and magistrates in the demon­
    stration districts have expressed substantial satisfaction with
    and strong support for the continuation of services rendered
    by those agencies. These views appear to be grounded in the
    utility of information provided by pretrial service officers to
    the judicial officers responsible for setting bail. Judicial offi­
    cers in the ten demonstration districts stated that they were
    able to make better informed decisions as a result of the regu­
    lar, prompt, and impartial information provided by the agen­
    cies. This is consistent with the findings of the 1978 Comptrol­
    ler General's Report to the Congress regarding the Federal
    bail process, in which the General Accounting office cited the
    need for better defendant related information and supported
    the continuation and expansion of this particular Pretrial
    Services Agency function.
       The Conference places great reliance on the opinions of the
    judicial officers. The Conference also places significance in
    the Director's findings that the operations of the Federal agen­
    cies compared favorably with state programs and that they
    have provided additional services to the courts which have
    improved the administration of criminal justice.
       The Conference therefore recommends the continued fund­
    ing and expansion of the Pretrial Services operation.

  COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
           BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

 The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Bankruptcy System was presented by the Chairman, Judge
Robert E. DeMascio.
                                  31

   SALARIES AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

  The Conference considered the recommendation of the
Committee that the part-time bankruptcy judge position at
Alexandria in the Eastern District of Virginia be increased to
full-time service as recommended in the January 1980 survey
report of the Director of the Administrative Office. The
Director's recommendation had previously been approved
by the Judicial Council of the Fourth Circuit pursuant to
Section 404(g) of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978,
Public Law 95-598. The Conference thereupon took the fol­
lowing action and directed that it be made effective when
appropriated funds are available:

                           FOURTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of Virginia
     (1) 	 Changed the bankruptcy judge position at Alexandria from
         part-time to full-time status at the currently authorized statu­
         tory salary for a full-time bankruptcy judge with the regular
         place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain
         the same.


     GUIDELINES IN CHAPTER        XIII   (WAGE-EARNER) CASES

  The Conference upon recommendation of the Committee
approved ten guidelines for the administration of Chapter
XIII (wage-earner) cases, submitted by the Committee as a
replacement for the existing guidelines. These new guidelines
conform the previous Conference-approved guidelines for
wage-earner cases to the changed requirements of the Bank­
ruptcy Reform Act.

               RETIREMENT OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

   The Conference, upon recommendation of the Committee,
endorsed a proposal that bankruptcy judges appointed by
the President under 28 V.S.C. 152 have the same retirement
provided to territorial district judges under 18 V.S.C. 373.
   A proposal that a referee or bankruptcy judge who is con­
tinued in office pursuant to Section 404(b) of Public Law 95­
                              32 


598 and who is subsequently appointed by the President
under 28 U.S.C. 152 be granted service credit toward retire­
ment dating back to his original appointment as referee or
bankruptcy judge was disapproved by the Conference. The
Conference also voted to disapprove the automatic granting
of full retirement to bankruptcy judges who are not ap­
pointed by the President under Section' 28 U.S.C. 152 beyond
the credits already earned under the Civil Service Retirement
Act.


  COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
       FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Federal Magistrates System was presented by the Chairman,
Senior Judge Charles M. Metzner.

  QUALIFICATION STANDARDS AND SELECTION PROCEDURES

   Judge Metzner reported that the Federal Magistrate Act
of 1979 requires the Conference to adopt binding standards
and procedures governing the appointment and reappoint­
ment of United States magistrates by the district courts. The
regulations must provide for public notice of all vacancies in
magistrate positions and the use of merit selection panels to
assist the courts in selecting magistrates. The standards and
procedures developed by the Committee in accordance
with the mandate of the statute were approved by the Con­
ference and ordered distributed to all district courts. Judge
Metzner informed the Conference that the staff of the Ad­
ministrative Office is developing a pamphlet to assist the
courts and the merit selection panels in implementing the
new selection procedures.

                LEGAL ASSISTANT POSITIONS

   The Federal Magistrate Act of 1979 also authorizes the
Conference to provide legal assistant positions for the of­
fices of full-time magistrates upon the recommendation of
the respective circuit judicial councils. Upon recommenda­
                                   33 


tion of the Committee the Conference established the follow­
ing standards for the authorization of legal assistant positions
for magistrates' offices.
    (1) 	 Funding requests for legal assistant positions will be authorized
          by the Conference only upon a showing of need based upon a
          case-by-case Committee analysis.
    (2) 	 A request for legal assistant positions must be approved by the
          district court.
    (3) 	 A request must also be approved by the judicial council of
          the pertinent circuit.
    (4) 	 The number of legal assistant positions authorized in any
          district may not exceed a ratio of one assistant per full-time
          magistrate position.
    (5) 	 A request for legal assistant positions must specify that the
          magistrates to whom the assistants are assigned perform an
          appreciable volume of "additional duties" for the court under
          authority of 28 U.S.C. §636(b) and (c).
    (6) 	 The salaries of legal assistant positions shall be the same as
          those established by the Conference for law clerks to bank­
          ruptcy judges.



                 ADMINISTRAnVE REGULAnONS

   The regulations for the administration of the Federal
magistrates system, promulgated by the Director of the Ad­
ministrative Office pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 604(e), set specific
fees to be charged by magistrates and their staffs for the sale
of duplicate tape recordings of proceedings before magis­
trates. At its session in March 1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 9) the
Conference approved a comprehensive new schedule of fees
to be charged by clerks of court which sets a fee for the sale
of duplicate tape recordings by clerks of court which is dif­
ferent from that previously fixed in the regulations for mag­
istrates and their staffs. Judge Metzner reported that the
Committee believes that the fees charged by magistrates and
their staffs should be the same as those charged by the clerks
of the district courts. Upon recommendation of the Commit­
tee the Conference approved an amendment to section 2.7
(d)(i) of the regulations of the Director to read as follows:
       Reproductions of tape recordings of proceedings prepared
     by the staff of a magistrate shall be sold to parties at the
                                 34

    same rates established by the Judicial Conference for record­
    ings prepared and sold to parties by the clerk of court.

       SMALL BUSINESS JUDICIAL ACCESS ACT OF 1979
   The Committee, at the request of the Subcommittee on
Federal Jurisdiction, had considered a provision in Title II
of H.R. 5103, 96th Congress, the Small Business Judicial
Access Act of 1979. The bill would permit a small business
to file a petition in the district court for expedited review of
a fine of up to $2,500 assessed against it by an administrative
agency and would require the district court to "direct a
magistrate to conduct all proceedings, including entry of
judgment." The magistrate's determination would be "final,
and may not be reviewed by any agency or court." The
Committee noted that the bill would expressly designate a
specific category of civil cases for hearing and disposition by
magistrates, an approach rejected during Congressional con­
sideration of the Federal Magistrate Act of 1979. Moreover,
a provision which requires the reference of a certain cate­
gory of civil actions' to a magistrate, without the consent of
the litigants or the court, raises questions of potential con­
stitutional dimensions. The Committee was further of the
view that the district courts should be free to determine
which cases are to be assigned to magistrates for hearing and
disposition. Upon recommendation of the Committee the
Conference disapproved in principle legislation which man­
dates that a district court automatically refer particular types
of cases to magistrates.

            SALARIES OF FULL-TIME MAGISTRATES
  The salaries of full-time magistrates are set by the Con­
ference at rates not to exceed the salaries provided by law
for full-time bankruptcy judges. The salary of a bankruptcy
judge is currently $50,000 per annum plus any increase result­
ing from the October 1, 1979 general cost-of-living increase
which may be determined in pending litigation. The salaries
of full-time magistrates, however, have not been adjusted to
reflect the cost-of-living increase granted to other officers
and employees; consequently, full-time magistrates have not
                                    35 


been accruing any increase in salary to which they may be
entitled.
   To alleviate this disparity in treatment between magistrates
and other officers in the judiciary the Conference, upon
recommendation of the Committee, authorized the general
October 1, 1979 cost-of-living increase, retroactive to the
first pay period commencing on or after that date (in ac­
cordance with 5 U.S.C. 5307), for full-time magistrates at
the same percentage rate provided by law for bankruptcy
judges, as determined in the pending litigation. Part-time
magistrates now receiving a salary of $24,250 would receive
the same percentage salary increase as full-time magistrates.

              CHANGES IN MAGISTRATES' POSITIONS

   After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the
circuits the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time magis­
trates. Unless otherwise indicated these changes are to be­
come effective when appropriated funds are available. The
salaries of full-time magistrates are to be determined in ac­
cordance with the salary plan previously adopted by the
Conference.


                            FIRST CIRCUIT
District oj Maine
     (1) 	 Redesignated the deputy clerk-magistrate position at Portland
         as a clerk-magistrate position at the currently authorized salary
         of $900 per annum for the performance of magistrate duties.
District oj Massachusetts
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Cape Cod Na­
           tional Seashore for an additional four-year term at the currently
           authorized salary of $4,500 per annum.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Pittsfield for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           $900 per annum.
                                   36 


District of New Hampshire
     (1) 	 Authorized the clerk of court at Concord to perform the duties
           of a part-time magistrate for an additional four-year term at
           the currently authorized aggregate salary of a clerk of court of
           a large district.
     (2) 	 Authorized the clerk-magistrate at Concord to serve in the ad­
           joining District of Maine.


                          SECOND CIRCUIT


Northern District of New York
     (1) 	 Authorized the clerk of court at Albany to perform the duties
         of a part-time magistrate for an additional four-year term with­
         out additional compensation.
Eastern District of New York
     (l) 	 Changed the official location of the full-time magistrate posi­
         tion at Brooklyn which is due to expire on April 30, 1986 from
         "Brooklyn" to "Hempstead (including the village of Union­
         dale)."


                            THIRD CIRCUIT
District of Delaware
     (1) 	 Converted the combination bankruptcy judge-magistrate posi­
         tion at Wilmington to a full-time magistrate position.
District of New Jersey
     (l) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Atlantic City
           for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
           salary of $1,800 per annum.
     (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Asbury Park from $15,500 to $17,900 per annum.
Middle District of Pennsylvania
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Scranton for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           $20,300 per annum.
     (2) 	 Designated the full-time magistrate at Wilkes-Barre and the
           part-time magistrate at Scranton to serve in the adjoining
           Northern and Southern Districts of New York.
                                    37 


                          FOURTH CIRCUIT 

District oj Maryland
     (1) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate positIOn at Prince
         George's County (Hyattsville) at a salary of $17,900 per annum.

Eastern District oj Virginia
     (I) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Williamsburg
           for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
           salary of $24,250 per annum.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Richmond for
           an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
           of $24,250 per annum.


                               FIFTH CIRCUIT
Northern District oj Georgia
      (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Atlanta which is
            due to expire on August 10, 1980 for an additional eight-year
            term.
Middle District oj Georgia
     (I) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
          Macon from $6,400 to $15,500 per annum.
Middle District oj Louisiana
     (1) 	 Authorized the bankruptcy judge at Baton Rouge to perform
           the duties of a part-time magistrate at no additional compen­
           sation, in lieu of the part-time magistrate position currently
           authorized at Baton Rouge.
Western District oj Louisiana
     (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Alexandria from $20,300 to $24,250 per annum.

Northern District oj Mississippi
     (1) 	 Authorized the clerk of court at Oxford to perform the duties
          of a part-time magistrate for a four-year term without addi­
          tional compensation.

Northern District oj Texas
     (1) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at Abilene at a
          salary of $900 per annum.
                                       38 


Western District oj Texas
     (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
         Midland/Odessa from $6,400 to $15,500 per annum.


                            SIXTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District oj Michigan
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Detroit which is
           due to expire on February 28, 1981 for an additional eight-year
           term.
     (2) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at Flint at a
           salary of $8,200 per annum.
Middle District oj Tennessee
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Nashville for an
         additional eight-year term.

Western District oj Wisconsin
     (l) 	 Authorized the clerk of court at Madison to perform the duties
           of a part-time magistrate for an additional four-year term
           without additional compensation.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Ashland for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           $900 per annum.



                            EIGHTH CIRCUIT
Northern District oj Iowa
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Sioux City for
         an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
         of $1,800 per annum.
District oj Minnesota
     (1) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Rochester
         upon the expiration of the current term.
Eastern District oj Missouri
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Cape Girardeau
           for an additional four-year term.
     (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Cape Girardeau from $900 to $1,800 per annum.
                                    39 


District oj Nebraska
     (I) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Lincoln to a
           full-time magistrate position.
     (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Grand Island,
           effective upon the appointment of a full-time magistrate at
           Lincoln.
District oj North Dakota
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Rolla for an ad­
         ditional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
         $1,800 per annum.

                            NINTH CIRCUIT
District oj Arizona
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Flagstaff for an
         additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
         $3,600 per annum.
Central District oj California
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at San Luis Obispo
         for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
         salary of $15,500 per annum.
Southern District oj California
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at San Diego which
         is due to expire in September 1980 for an additional eight-year
         term.
District oj Nevada
     (I) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Las Vegas for
         an additional eight-year term.
District oj Oregon
     (I) 	Converted the bankruptcy judge-magistrate position at Eugene
          to a full-time magistrate position.

                           TENTH CIRCUIT
District oj Colorado

     (1) 	 Changed the official location of the part-time magistrate posi­
           tion at "Cortez or Durango" to Cortez.
     (2) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at Durango at
                                   40

           a salary of $2,700 per annum.
     (3) 	 Authorized the part-time magistrate at Durango to serve in the
           adjoining District of New Mexico.

District of Kansas
     (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
         Junction City from $1,800 to $10,000 per annum.

District of New Mexico
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Albuquerque
           for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
           salary of $24,250 per annum.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Alamogordo
           for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
           salary of $1,800 per annum.
District of Wyoming
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Jackson for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           $4,500 per annum.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Sheridan for an
           additional four-year term.
     (3) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Sheridan from $900 to $1,800 per annum.




      AUTHORIZATION TO SERVE IN ADJOINING DISTRICTS

   The Federal Magistrate Act of 1979 amended 28 U.S.C.
631 (a) to permit a magistrate to serve in a neighboring
district without regard to the existence of a multidistrict
federal enclave when authorized to do so by the Conference.
Prior to the 1979 Act the Conference had authorized 12
magistrates to exercise jurisdiction over an entire federal en­
clave which extended into adjoining districts. To conform
these prior authorizations with the revised language of the
new Act the Conference, upon recommendation of the Com­
mittee, authorized magistrates appointed in the following
districts to serve in other specified adjoining districts:
                                    41

                               THIRD CIRCUIT

Middle District oj Pennsylvania
      (1) 	 Authorized the magistrate at Stroudsburg to serve in the ad­
            joining Eastern District of Pennsylvania and the District of
            New Jersey.
      (2) 	 Authorized the magistrate at Harrisburg to serve in the adjoin­
            ing Western District of Pennsylvania.


                            FOURTH CIRCUIT

District oj Maryland
      (1) 	 Authorized the magistrate at Salisbury to serve in the adjoining
          Eastern District of Virginia.
      (2) 	 Authorized the magistrate at Hagerstown to serve in the ad­
          joining Middle District of Pennsylvania.

Eastern District oj Virginia
      (1) 	 Authorized the magistrate at Richmond to serve in the adjoin­
          ing Eastern District of North Carolina and the Western District
          of Virginia.


                               SIXTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District oj Kentucky
     (1) 	 Authorized the magistrate at London to serve in the adjoining
          Western District of Virginia and the Eastern District of Tennes­
          see.

Western District oj Kentucky
     (1) 	 Authorized the magistrate at Hopkinsville to serve in the ad­
           joining Middle District of Tennessee.


                            EIGHTH CIRCUIT
Southern District oj Iowa
     (1) 	 Authorized the magistrate at Council Bluffs to serve in the ad­
         joining District of Nebraska.

Eastern District oj Missouri
     (I) 	 Authorized the magistrate for the Ozark National Scenic River­
         ways to serve in the Western District of Missouri.
                                    42 


                           NINTH CIRCUIT 

Central District of California
     (1) 	 Authorized the magistrate at Lancaster to serve in the adjoin­
         ing Eastern District of California.
District of Nevada
     (1) 	 Authorized the magistrate at Las Vegas to serve in the adjoin­
         ing District of Arizona.
Western District of Washington
     (1) 	 Authorized the magistrate at Vancouver to serve in the adjoin­
         ing Eastern District of Washington.




  COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
              CRIMINAL LAW

  Judge Alexander Harvey II, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Criminal Law, presented the
report of the Committee.

                     CRIMINAL CODE REVISION

   Judge Harvey reported that only a few of the amendments
to the criminal code revision bill, recommended by the
Conference, have been adopted in the current versions of the
criminal code. Neither the House nor the Senate bills have
included Judicial Conference recommendations with respect
to definitions of states of mind or the retention of the Fed­
eral Youth Corrections Act. The Committee was particularly
concerned about the failure of the House and Senate Judiciary
Committees thus far to adopt a Conference formulation of
definitions for states of mind. The Committee therefore
recommended that the Conference once again call the atten­
tion of the appropriate Congressional committees to the im­
portance of adopting previously approved definitions of
"knowingly." "intentionally," "recklessly," and "negligent­
1y.. in the pending legislation. This recommendation was
approved by the Conference.
                               43

                    CAPITAL PUNISHMENT

  The Conference voted to take no position on various bills
pending in the Congress relating to capital punishment.

               PRETRIAL RELEASE LEGISLATION

   S. 2100, 96th Congress, is a bill to authorize a court in
cases involving narcotic trafficking to impose such conditions
of release pending trial as are reasonably necessary to insure
that the person will not engage in the conduct proscribed by
the offense pending trial. Judge Harvey pointed out that the
bill singles out a particular class of offenders, namely, offen­
ders charged with narcotics offenses, in establishing criteria
for the setting of conditions for pretrial release. On recom­
mendation of the Committee the Conference disapproved
the bill.
   The Committee further recommended that the Conference
call to the attention of the Senate its previous approval of
amendments to 18 U.S.C. 3146 which would permit a trial
judge to consider "the safety of any other person or the
community" in setting the conditions for release before trial
of a defendant charged in a noncapital case and the Con­
ference approved.

                     PRETRIAL DIVERSION

   S. 702, 96th Congress, is a bill to establish alternatives to
criminal prosecution for certain persons charged with offen­
ses against the United States, and for other purposes. The
bill would establish procedures for judicial involvement in
pretrial diversion proceedings. It is also designed to standard­
ize practices and to require equal treatment of similarly situ­
ated persons selected for pretrial diversion. Although the
bill would require more judicial involvement in pretrial di­
version proceedings, the Committee concluded that such in­
volvement would be counterbalanced by benefits accruing to
defendents and to the administration of the criminal law in
general. Although the Committee is in favor of the legisla­
tion, it recommended that Sec. 3207 of the bill constituting
each speedy trial planning group established under 18 U.S.c.
                              44 


3168(a) as a diversion advisory committee be deleted from
the bill. The Committee believes that speedy trial planning
groups should not be involved in pretrial diversion programs.
The Conference, upon recommendation of the Committee,
recommended approval of S. 702 with the deletion of Sec.
3207.

              COMPUTER SYSTEMS PROTECTION

  S. 204, 96th Congress, would amend the criminal code to
make it a crime to use, for fraudulent or other illegal pur­
poses, any computer owned or operated by the United States,
certain financial institutions and entities affecting interstate
commerce. The Committee concluded that the bill deals with
computer crime with greater clarity than existing provisions
of law. The Committee recommended and the Conference
endorsed enactment of this legislation.


    IN CAMERA SCREENING OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION

   H.R. 4736, 96th Congress, is a bill to establish certain
pretrial and trial procedures for the use of classified in­
formation in connection with federal criminal cases and for
other purposes. The bill is similar to S. 1482, 96th Congress,
which was considered by the Conference in September 1979
(ConL Rept., p. 93) and approved with certain suggested
modifications.
   Judge Harvey informed the Conference that the Committee
continues to be of the view that the promulgation of security
procedures should more appropriately be made the respon­
sibility of the Judicial Conference, or a duly designated
Committee, rather than that of the Supreme Court or the
Chief Justice. Furthermore, the Committee suggested that a
period of 180 days, rather than only 120 days, should be
provided for the enactment of rules establishing security
procedures.
   Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
endorsed the legislation with the two modifications sug­
gested.
                              45

                  COMPUTERIZED DOCKETS

   Clerks of court in eleven United States district courts have
been using the Courtran computer system, under develop­
ment by the Federal Judicial Center, for the docketing of
criminal cases and for monitoring them under the Speedy
Trial Act. Several clerks have inquired as to whether it
would be possible to dispense with a central criminal docket
prepared manually, and to rely entirely on the computer
record as the official criminal docket. Last October the
Director of the Administrative Office advised the Federal
Judicial Center that a computerized docket would constitute
an adequate replacement for a manual docket provided that
the computer system would guarantee public access to com­
plete and current docket entries during office hours and that
upon the conclusion of each criminal case a printout of the
entire docket record be made and bound in the docket books
of the court.
   The Conference, upon recommendation of the Committee,
approved, pursuant to Rule 55 of the Federal Rules of Crim­
inal Procedure, the authorization granted by the Administra­
tive Office to the clerks of the eleven Courtran districts to
discontinue, if they wish, the maintenance of a manual crim­
inal docket.

    COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION OF THE JURY SYSTEM

   Chief Judge C. Clyde Atkins, Chairman of the Commit­
tee on the Operation of the Jury System, presented the
report of the Committee.

               BILINGUAL COURT LEGISLATION

   H.R. 5563, 96th Congress, is a bill to provide that certain
judicial pleadings and proceedings in the United States Dis­
trict Court for the District of Puerto Rico may be conducted
in the Spanish language. On several prior occasions the Con­
ference has considered legislation which would authorize the
district court in Puerto Rico to conduct proceedings in the
Spanish language instead of English (Conf. Repts., Sept.
1977, p. 50 and March 1979, p. 37). The Conference again
                                  46 


considered this legislation and approved the following state­
ment, submitted by the Committee, for transmission to the
Congress:

       The Committee believes that the present legislation, H.R.
    5563, raises considerations of major significance which will
    provoke greater judicial and administrative difficulties than
    the flaws which it seeks to resolve. Specifically,
       I. This legislation would appear to require the United
    States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico to main­
    tain two separate master and qualified jury wheels-one for
    English-speaking and one for Spanish-speaking jurors. In
    this regard an amendment to section 1863(b)(4) of title 28,
    U.S.C., would be necessary and is not provided in the present
    bill. More fundamentally, the selection of jurors from two
    separate constituencies, depending upon linguistic ability,
    raises serious constitutional issues as to whether juries so
    chosen could be considered to represent a fair cross-section of
    the community. (Any construction of this legislation to re­
    quire only a single set of jury wheels would appear defective
    because (1) prospective jurors under the proposed law could
    not then be excluded upon challenge for cause for inability to
    comprehend the language in which the trial is to be conducted,
    and (2) even if such jurors could be so exchlded, the adminis­
    tration of such a system with a single qualified wheel would
    be impossible on account of the lack of predictability as to
    linguistic abilities of the jurors being summoned and the con­
    sequent need to summon extremely large jury panels to al­
    low for anticipated exclusions.)
       2. Puerto Rico is not the only area of the United States
    having a substantial proportion of non-English speaking per­
    sons in its population, and no showing has been made to jus­
    tify the treatment of its Spanish-speaking population in a
    manner different from other American citizens not fluent in
    English by offering them the unique opportunity of a federal
    jury trial conducted in their preferred tongue.
       3. This legislation would in effect require that all United
    States district judges appointed in Puerto Rico must be bilin­
    gual, thus imposing upon such court a unique requirement
    not applicable to any other court established under Article III
    of the Constitution.
       4. The enactment of this bill would clearly cause a major
    expansion in the caseload of the Puerto Rico district court
    by encouraging the increased filing therein of civil cases, as
                               47 


to which a jury trial is not now available under the civil law
applied in the Spanish-speaking courts of the Commonwealth.
   S. The ability of this district court to utilize visiting judges
designated and assigned from other federal courts, who have
in the recent past been indispensable in the management of
its caseload, would be greatly reduced if a major proportion
of its trials were to be conducted in Spanish.
   6. The expense and delay inherent in federal litigation in
Puerto Rico will be greatly increased by
      (a) The need to translate exhibits and other documentary
   evidence during trial;
      (b) The need to translate Spanish trial transcripts and
   pleadings into English for purposes of the record on appeal
   to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit
   and possibly for further proceedings in the United States
   Supreme Court; and
      (c) The apparent need to translate any opinions or mem­
   oranda handed down in Spanish by the district court into
   English for purposes of appeal and then to retranslate any
   subsequent appellate opinion into Spanish, where the trial
   was conducted in that language.
   7. Whereas at present the district judge can readily and im­
mediately verify the accuracy of any interpretation of testi­
monial proceedings taking place in court, and the Court Inter­
preters Act of 1978 envisions a system of certified interpreters
guaranteeing the accuracy of simultaneous interpretation of
the entire trial proceeding, no effective means would exist to
monitor the authenticity of the written translations of appel­
late records which are envisioned by this legislation.
   8. The enactment of this legislation would require the ac­
quisition and permanent maintenance of a large new staff of
translators in the Puerto Rico district court and of additional
personnel to monitor and coordinate the efforts of this staff
with the appellate processes of the Court of Appeals for the
First Circuit in order to prevent unconscionable delays. To
retain such highly trained personnel required for this purpose
would necessitate an expenditure of appropriated funds which
cannot be justified by any of the objectives which the bill
seeks to accomplish.
   9. An arguable alternative to this cumbersome translation
process for purposes of appeal would be to establish the Court
of Appeals for the First Circuit as a bilingual court, which is
clearly impractical in view of the traditionally small size of
this court (four authorized judgeships at present) and the
                                    48

     statutory procedures for the courts of appeals to sit in panels
     of three judges, randomly selected in each case from all avail­
     able active, senior, and visiting judges assigned to the Court.
        The Conference, having observed the legislative proceedings
     to date in the House of Representatives and being concerned
     over the absence of any exploration in depth of the practical
     implications of administering a busy metropolitan bilingual
     court within a national system otherwise wholly operated in
     the English language, and being further concerned that the
     right of appeal from judgments of the Puerto Rico district
     court not be diminished through expense or delay, urges
     strongly that the Senate hold hearings probing, with assistance
     from experts, such issues as (I) the fiscal, personnel, and
     organizational requirements incident to an adequate transla­
     tion capability, (2) the alternative of reliance on Spanish­
     speaking appellate judges, (3) the necessity for legislation
     authorizing two sets of jury wheels, (4) the feasibility of ini­
     tially confining the bilingual option to a pilot program of
     limited scope, and (5) the necessity to link the responsibilities
     of the district court under this legislation to the availability of
     adequate space, funds, and personnel.


               USE OF    VOTER REGISTRATION LISTS
   The Conference has on several occasions endorsed legisla­
tion which would have designated voter registration lists as a
presumptively sufficient sole source for the names of pros­
pective federal jurors (See Conf. Rept., Sept. 1979, p. 94).
Judge Atkins reported that the Committee is no longer per­
suaded of the need for corrective legislation of this type, since
the aims of the legislation have largely been accomplished
through the development of decisional law on the issues of
community representation on federal juries and the adequacy
of voter lists as the selection source. The Conference there­
upon directed that this legislation not be resubmitted to the
Congress and that no further effort towards its enactment be
made.

                   JURIES IN BANKRUPTCY CASES

  The Transition Advisory Committee of Bankruptcy
Judges, appointed by the Director of the Administrative Of­
                              49 


fice to advise and assist on problems ansmg during the
period of transition to the new system of bankruptcy courts,
has recommended two amendments to the Judicial Code
with respect to jury administration. The first proposed amend­
ment would provide that the fees and expense allowances to
be paid to jurors in bankruptcy courts would be disbursed
by the clerk of the United States district court rather than
the clerks of the bankruptcy court. Upon recommendation
of the Committee, the Conference approved a draft bill and
authorized its transmission to the Congress.
   The second suggestion of the Transition Advisory Com­
mittee would provide for the participation of a bankruptcy
judge in the design and review of the jury selection plan to
be followed in each judicial district. The Conference had
previously determined that a bankruptcy court should follow
the jury selection plan of the district court and should use the
same jury wheels and mechanics used in selecting juries for that
district court. It was the view of the Committee that, because
of the relatively small number of jury trials taking place in
bankruptcy courts, the existing arrangement is fully ade­
quate. Further, there is no need for formalized participation
by a bankruptcy judge on the reviewing panel, since the
present arrangement does not preclude the district courts
from consulting with the bankruptcy judges of their district in
the initial framing of the jury selection plan or amendments
thereto. The Committee recommended that the Conference
take no action on this proposal, and the Conference agreed.


  COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

  The written report of the Committee on lntercircuit Assign­
ments, submitted by the Chairman, Senior Judge George L.
Hart, Jr., was received by the Conference.
  During the period August 16, 1979 to February 15, 1980
the Committee recommended 62 assignments to be under­
taken by 48 judges. Of this number nine were senior circuit
judges, one was an active circuit judge, three were district
judges in active status and 27 were senior district judges.
Thirteen assignments involved three active judges and one
senior judge of the Court of Claims, two active judges of
                              50 


the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals and two active
judges of the Customs Court.
  Eight senior circuit judges and 16 senior district judges
carried out 27 of the 36 assignments to the courts of appeals
which were recommended during the period. One active cir­
cuit judge, one active district judge, two active judges of the
Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, and three active
judges of the Court of Claims participated in the other nine
assignments to the courts of appeals.
  Of the 26 assignments to the district courts, 15 senior
district judges participated in 17 assignments, the remaining
nine being carried out by one senior circuit judge, two
active district judges, two active judges of the Customs
Court and one senior judge of the Court of Claims.



    COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT THE CRIMINAL 

                JUSTICE ACT 


  Senior Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the
Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented
the Committee's report.

               ApPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

   The Conference authorized the Director of the Adminis­
trative Office to distribute copies of a report on appoint­
ments and payments under the Criminal Justice Act for the
fiscal year 1979 to all chief judges, all federal defender
organizations and to others who may request copies. The re­
port indicated that $24,800,000 was appropriated by the
Congress for the administration of the Act during the fiscal
year 1979. During the year approximately 43,000 persons
were represented under the Act, compared to approximately
44,000 persons represented during the fiscal year 1978, a
decrease of 2.3 percent. Federal public defender organizations
represented 13,338 persons during the year. Community
defender organizations represented 7,333 persons. Collec­
tively these defender organizations accounted for 48.1 per­
cent of all persons represented during the fiscal year 1979,
                                51 


compared to 45.7 percent during the fiscal year 1978 and
42.4 percent during the fiscal year 1977.
   The report indicated that the average cost of representa­
tion under the Criminal Justice Act by all federal defender
organizations during the fiscal year 1979 was $534 per case,
an increase of 7.9 percent compared to a cost of $495 per
case during the fiscal year 1978. The cost of representation
by private panel attorneys was $478 per case during the fiscal
year 1979, a 5.5 percent increase over the cost of $453 per
case during the fiscal year 1978.

       BUDGET REQUEST-FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDER

   At the September 1979 session of the Conference (Conf.
Rept., p. 98) the Committee reported that, for the time
being, it was recommending that no funds be authorized for
the Federal Public Defender Office in the Central and
Southern Districts of Illinois for the fiscal year 1981.
Judge MacBride stated that the Committee continues to be
concerned over the under-utilization of the Federal Public
Defender Organization for these two districts and its high
operational cost per case, The Committee now believes,
however, that funding should be provided for the fiscal year
1981, and that a thorough review should be made at the time
the Committee reviews budget requests for the fiscal year
1982. Upon recommendation of the Committee the Con­
ference approved a fiscal year 1981 budget for the Federal
Public Defender organization in the Central and Southern
Districts of Illinois in the amount of $128,827.

    AMENDMENTS TO CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT GUIDELINES

  The Conference, upon recommendation of the Committee,
approved the following amendments to the guidelines for the
administration of the Criminal Justice Act:
       1. An amendment to paragraph 2.12 to provide continuity
    of representation in appeals from decisions of United States
    magistrates.
       2. An amendment to paragraph 2.01C to add a new sub­
    paragraph (4) pertaining to the appointment and compensa­
    tion of counsel under the Jury System Improvements Act.
                                  52 


        3. An amendment to paragraph 2.24 relating to multiple
     vouchers for compensation from one counsel and the prora­
     tion of claims.
        4. An amendment to paragraph 2.28D relating to the print­
     ing and reproduction of briefs.
        5. An amendment to paragraph 2.11 relating to the com­
     pensation of multiple counsel representing one defendant.
        6. An amendment to paragraph 2.01C to add a new sub­
     paragraph (5) pertaining to the appointment of counsel for
     deportation proceedings.
        7. An amendment to paragraph 2.22A relating to documen­
     tation in support of Criminal Justice Act vouchers.
        8. A renumbering of paragraphs 3.04 and 3.05, as 3.05
     and 3.06 respectively, and the addition of a new paragraph
     3.04 relating to documentation in support of claims of experts.
        9. An amendment to paragraph 4.03 to clarify policies and
     procedures regarding the general authorization for federal de­
     fenders to obtain investigative, expert, and other services.


            OBLIGATION OF ApPOINTED COUNSEL TO 

                 DISCLOSE CLIENT'S ASSETS 


  In its report to the Conference at the special session in
January 1965, the Committee recommended the following
guideline to be used in the formulation of district court plans
for the implementation of the Criminal Justice Act:
       A district court plan may properly place upon appointed
    counsel the duty of reporting to the court any situation coming
    to his attention where a defendant appears to be able to
    finance a portion of his defense.
   The Committee continues to adhere to this view but recog­
nizes that Canon 4 of the American Bar Association's Code
of Professional Responsibility also imposes an ethical duty
on an attorney to preserve the confidences and secrets of a
client. To require an attorney to report information to the
court which was gained as a result of a privileged communi­
cation could result in a charge against the attorney of un­
ethical conduct and subject the attorney to disciplinary ac­
tion. The Committee therefore recommended, and the Con­
ference resolved, that district and circuit court plans for the
implementation of the Criminal Justice Act should contain a
provision to this effect:
                                 53 


       If, at any time after appointment, counsel obtains informa­
    tion that a client is financially able to obtain counselor to
    make partial payment for counsel, and the source of the at­
    torney's information is not protected as a privileged com­
    munication, counsel shall advise the court.
  The Committee, however, was requested to continue its
oversight of this problem.

      ApPOINTMENT OF COUNSEL-CIVIL RIGHTS CASES

   The guidelines for the administration of the Criminal Jus­
tice Act, paragraph 2.01C(3), as approved by the Conferenc.e,
clearly indicate that prisoners bringing civil rights actions
under 42 U.S.C. 1983 are not entitled to the appointment of
counsel under the Criminal Justice Act. Judge MacBride in­
formed the Conference that many district courts are appoint­
ing counsel, particularly federal defender organizations, to
undertake the representation of prisoner petitions for relief
that are clearly under section 1983 of title 42, United States
Code, and not within the scope of the Criminal Justice Act.
   In order to prevent the expenditure of resources that are
appropriated to provide defense services under the Criminal
Justice Act from being used for activities beyond the scope
of the Act, the Committee recommended, that the Confer­
ence reaffirm its position, that counsel may not be appointed
under the Criminal Justice Act, nor may Criminal Justice
Act resources be expended, in "civil rights" actions or pro­
ceedings brought under 42 U.S.C. 1983. The Conference ap­
proved the recommendation and reaffirmed its position on
the matter as requested by the Committee.

    PERSONAL LIABILITY OF FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS

   Judge Mac Bridge stated that the federal public defenders
had expressed to the Committee their great concern over their
potential exposure to personal liability for malpractice in light
of the Supreme Court's recent decision in Ferri v. Ackerman.
The concern arises primarily because of footnote 16 which
states "We have found nothing in the legislative history of
the 1970 amendment [to the Criminal Justice Act] that in­
dicates that Congress intended public defenders to be immune
                             54 


from malpractice actions." Judge MacBride stated that the
Committee shares the concern of the federal public defen­
ders and had requested the Administrative Office to take
necessary and appropriate action to provide protection
against personal liability for Federal Public Defenders.


        COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE 

               AND PROCEDURE 


  The report of the Committee on Rules of Practice and
Procedure was submitted by the Chairman, Senior Judge
Roszel C. Thomsen.

                    MAGISTRATES RULES

  Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
approved for transmittal to the Supreme Court of the United
States a set of Rules of Procedure for the Trial of Misde­
meanors Before United States Magistrates with a recom­
mendation that they be adopted by the Court. Judge Thom­
sen stated that the new rules are required as a result of the
Federal Magistrate Act of 1979, Public Law 96-802, approved
October 10,1979, which amended 18 U.S.C. 3401 to abolish
the concept of "a minor offense" and to authorize a United
States magistrate to try any misdemeanor case with the writ­
ten consent of the defendant. These new rules would super­
sede the Rules for the Trial of Minor Offenses Before United
States Magistrates which were approved by the Supreme
Court on January 27, 1971. Under 18 U.S.C. §3402 the
Supreme Court has authority to adopt these rules without
submitting them to the Congress.

                  COMMITTEE DOCUMENTS

  The Conference, on recommendation of the Committee,
authorized the Standing Committee to make available on re­
quest any document submitted to the Standing Committee
by an advisory committee and to make available any recom­
mendations submitted by the Committee to the Judicial
Conference. The Conference also authorized the immediate
                              55 


release, on request, of any action taken by the Conference
on recommendations pertaining to changes in rules of prac­
tice and procedure submitted by the Standing Committee.


     AD HOC COMMITTEE ON THE DISPOSITION 

              OF COURT RECORDS 


  Judge Walter J. Cummings, Chairman of the ad hoc
Committee on the Disposition of Court Records, presented
the report of the Committee.

      RECORDS OF DISTRICT COURTS, COURT OF CLAIMS, 

        CUSTOMS COURT, BANKRUPTCY COURTS, AND 

              TERRITORIAL DISTRICT COURTS 


  The Conference in September 1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 105)
approved a records disposition program and schedule for the
disposition of the records of the United States district courts
and bankruptcy courts and authorized the Committee to
make further changes in the schedule that might be called for
as a result of an appraisal by the National Archives and
Records Service. Subsequently, the National Archives and
Records Service suggested certain changes and technical
amendments to the schedule to conform with its overall pro­
gram. Upon recommendation of the Committee the Confer­
ence approved a revised records disposition program and
schedule and directed that it be made applicable to the
records of the Court of Claims and to the records of the
Customs Court, provided the schedule is aceeptable to the
Customs Court.

      RECORDS OF THE COURTS OF ApPEALS, COURT OF
     CUSTOMS AND PATENT ApPEALS, CIRCUIT JUDICIAL
      COUNCILS, AND CIRCUIT JUDICIAL CONFERENCES

   The Committee submitted to the Conference a proposed
records disposition program and schedule covering the
records of the United States courts of appeals, the Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals, circuit judicial councils and
circuit conferences. Judge Cummings informed the Con­
                             56 


ference that the proposed schedule had previously been cir­
culated to all circuit judges, the Chief Judge of the Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals, circuit executives, and the
clerks of the courts of appeals and that comment thereon
had been received and considered by the Committee. The
Conference, upon recommendation of the Committee, ap­
proved the disposition schedule and program statement, as
submitted, and authorized its transmission to the National
Archives and Records Service and to the courts concerned.

       TERMINATION OF THE WORK OF THE COMMITTEE

   Judge Cummings informed the Conference that the basic
work of the Committee in preparing schedules for the disposi­
tion of the records of the various United States courts has
now been completed. The Conference thereupon discharged
the Committee from any further responsibilities and com­
mended the Chairman and members thereof for their excep­
tionally fine work. The Conference directed that future
modifications in the disposition schedules be considered by
the appropriate standing committee of the Conference.


                       ELECTIONS

  The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 621(a)(2), elected
Chief Judge William S. Sessions of the United States District
Court for the Western District of Texas to membership on
the Board of the Federal Judicial Center for a term of four
years, succeeding District Judge Frank J. McGarr whose
term expires on March 28, 1980.


       PRETERMISSION OF TERMS OF COURTS 

                  OF APPEALS 


  The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the
pretermission of a June 1980 term of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit at Asheville, North
Carolina. The Conference also approved the pretermission
of terms of the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit at
                              57 


Wichita, Kansas and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma during the
calendar year 1980.


         RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

   The Conference authorized the immediate release of mat­
ters considered at this session where necessary for legislative
or administrative action.

                                    Warren E. Burger
                            Chief Justice of the United States

April 30, 1980
                                                 58

                                              INDEX

                                                                                                 Page
Administrative Office of the United States Courts: 

     Report of the Director. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 

          Judicial Business of the Courts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 

Administrative Regulations ..................................... 33 

Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct ........................ 28 

Advisory Panel on Financial Disclosure Reports 

  and Judicial Activities: 

     Activities of the Panel ...................................... 27 

     Change of the Name of the Panel ............................ 28 

     Codes of Conduct for Staff Attorneys, Circuit 

       Executives and Public Defenders ........................... 27 

     Committee on, Report of ................................... 27 

     Membership in Clubs ...................................... 28 

Affirmative Action Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 

Amendments to Criminal Justice Act Guidelines ................... 51 

Appointments and Payments under the Criminal Justice Act. ........ 50 

Appointment of Counsel-Civil Rights Cases ...................... 53 

Appointment of a Special ad hoc Subcommittee to the 

  Committee on Court Administration ........................... 22 

Appropriations: 

     Fiscal Year 1980, Supplemental .............................. 22 

     Fiscal Year 1981 ........................................... 22 

Assistants to Circuit Executives .................................. 23 

Bankruptcy System: 

     Committee on Report of.................................... 30 

     Guidelines in Chapter XIII Cases ............................ 31 

     Retirement of Bankruptcy Judges ............................ 31 

     Salaries and Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges ............. 31 

Bilingual Court Legislation ..................................... 45 

Budget: 

     Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1981 ...................... 22 

     Assistants to Circuit Executives .............................. 23 

     Committee on report of .................................... 22 

     Court Security ............................................ 23 

     Supplemental Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1980 ............. 22 

Budget Requests-Federal Public Defenders ....................... 51 

Bumpers Amendment .......................................... 17 

Capital Punishment ............................................ 43 

Circuit Executives: 

     Assistants to .............................................. 23 

     Codes of Conduct for ...................................... 27 

                                                  59 



Civil Judgments, Registration of ................................. 13 

Civil Money Penalties by Administrative Agencies, Imposition of .... 16 

Civil Rights Actions, Fees and Expenses of Attorneys 

  Representing Indigent Persons in .............................. 7 

Civil Rights Cases, Appointment of Counsel in .................... 53 

Clients' Assets, Obligation of Appointed Counsel to Disclose ........ 52 

Clubs, Membership in .......................................... 28 

Codes of Conduct: 

     Circuit Executives ......................................... 27 

     Public Defenders .......................................... 27 

     Staff Attorneys ............................................ 27 

Computerized Dockets ......................................... 45 

Computer Systems Protection ................................... 44 

Conference: 

     Call of. . ..... . .. . . . . . . . . .... .. .. . . . . . . . . ... .. . . . . . . . . . ... 1 

     Release of Action .......................................... 57 

Court Administration: 

     Appointment of a Special ad hoc Subcommittee ............... 22 

     Attorneys' Fees ............................................ 10 

     Bumpers Amendment ...................................... 17 

     Committee on, Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 

     Court of Military Appeals .................................. 16 

     Court Reporters-Private Reporting ......................... 19 

     Court Reporters-Transcript Rates ........................... 17 

     Customs Court Act of 1979 ................................. 14 

     Equal Employment Opportunity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 

     Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1979 ....................... 13 

     Federal Courts Improvements Act of 1979 .......... . . . . . . . . .. 8 

     Imposition of Civil Money Penalties by Administrative 

       Agencies ............................................... 16 

     Legislation Relating to Open Meetings of the 

        Judicial Conference of the United States and 

        Judicial Councils of the Circuits ........................... 10 

     Medical Privacy Act ....................................... 12 

     Miscellaneous Fee Schedules ................................ 6 

     Places of Holding Court. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9 

     Printing of Opinions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 

     Registration of Civil Judgments ............................. 13 

     Salaries of Chief Probation Officers .......................... 21 

     Salaries of Secretaries ...................................... 20 

     Small Business Judicial Access Act of 1979 .................... 15 

     Venue in Courts of Appeals and District Courts ............... 11 

Courtran Computer System ..................................... 45 

                                                  60 


Court Records:
    Committee on, Report of ................................... 55 

    Records of the Courts of Appeals, Court of 

       Customs and Patent Appeals, Circuit Judicial 

       Councils and Circuit Judicial Conferences .................. 55 

    Records of District Courts, Court of Claims, 

       Customs Court, Bankruptcy Courts, and 

      Territorial District Courts ................................. 55 

    Termination of the Work of the Committee ................... 56 

Court Reporters: 

    Private reporting .......................................... 19 

    Transcript Rates ........................................... 17 

Courts: 

    Bankruptcy: 

          Statistics ............................................. 3 

    Courts of the District of Columbia: 

          Financial Disclosure Reports ............................ 25 

    Courts of Appeals: 

          Miscellaneous Fee Schedules ............................ 6 

          Printing of Opinions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 

          Security .............................................. 23 

          Statistics ......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 

          Venue ................................................ l1 

    Customs: 

          Act of 1979 ........................................... 14 

    District Courts: 

          Assistants to Circuit Executives .......................... 23 

          Computerized Dockets ................................. 45 

          Court Reporters' Transcript Rates ....................... 17 

          Fees in the District of Columbia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7 

          Fees and Expenses to be Paid to Jurors 

            in Bankruptcy Courts to be Disbursed by 

            the Clerk of United States District 

            Courts ............................................. 48 

          Miscellaneous Fee Schedules ............................ 6 

          Security .............................................. 23 

          Venue ................................................ 11 

    Military Appeals, Court of:
          Draft Bill to Reconstitute the Court of 

            Military Appeals as an Independent Court 

            under Article I of the Constitution of 

            the United States .................................... 16 

Criminal Code Revision:
    S. 204 to Amend the Criminal Code .......................... 44 

                                                 61 


Criminal Justice Act:
    Amendments to the Criminal Justice Act Guidelines ............ 51 

    Appointment of Counsel-Civil Rights Cases .................. 53 

    Appointments and Payments ................................ 50 

    Budget Requests-Federal Public Defender. ................... 51 

    Committee on, Report of ................................... 50 

    Obligation to Appointed Counsel to Disclose Client's Assets ..... 52 

    Personal Liability of Federal Public Defenders ................. 53 

Criminal Law: 

     Capital Punishment ........................................ 43 

     Committee on, Report of ................................... 42 

     Computer Systems Protection ............................... 44 

     Computerized Dockets ..................................... 45 

     Criminal Code Revision .................................... 42 

     In Camera Screening of Classified Information ................ 44 

     Pretrial Diversion .......................................... 43 

     Pretrial Release Litigation .................................. 43 

Customs Court Act of 1979 ..................................... 14 

Elections ..................................................... 56 

Ethics in Government Act: ..................................... 25 

     Advisory Panel ............................................ 26 

     Court of the District of Columbia ............................ 25 

     Filing of Reports .......................................... 25 

     Revised Reporting Form and Instructions ..................... 26 

Equal Employment Opportunity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 

Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1979 ........................... 13 

Federal Courts Improvements Act ............................... 8 

Federal Judicial Center: 

     Election of Board Member .................................. 56 

     Report ................................................... 4 

Federal Public Defenders: 

     Budget Request ............................................ 51 

     Codes of Conduct ......................................... 27 

     Personal Liability .......................................... 53 

Fees: 

     Attorneys' Fees ............................................ 10 

    Court Reporters' Transcript Rates ........................... 17 

     District of Columbia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7 

     Fees and Expenses of Attorneys Representing 

        Indigent Persons in Civil Rights Actions .................... 7 

     Miscellaneous Fee Schedules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6 

    Tape Recordings of Proceedings Before Magistrates ............ 33 

Financial Disclosure Reports .................................... 24 

                                         62 


Guidelines:
     Chapter XIII (Wage-Earner) Cases ........................... 31 

     Criminal Justice Act ....................................... 51 

In Camera Screening of Classified Information .................... 44 

Intercircuit Assignments: 

     Committee on, Report of ................................... 49 

Judges: 

     Federal Courts Improvements Act of 1979 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8 

     Financial Disclosure Reports by Senior ....................... 25 

     Membership in Clubs ...................................... 28 

     Retirement of Bankruptcy Judges ............................ 31 

     Salaries and Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges ............. 31 

Judicial Ethics: 

     Activities of the Committee ................................. 24 

     Advisory Panel ............................................ 26 

     Assets of Spouses and Dependent Children .................... 26 

     Committee on, Report of ................................... 23 

     Courts of the District of Columbia ........................... 25 

     Filing of Copies of Reports with Chief Judges ................. 25 

     Reporting Form and Instructions ............................ 26 

     Reports by Senior Judges ................................... 25 

     Reports of Part-time United States Magistrates ................ 24 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation: 

     Report ................................................... 4 

     Statistics ................................................. 4 

Juries in Bankruptcy Cases ...................................... 48 

Jury System: 

     Bilingual Court Legislation ................................. 45 

     Committee on, Report of ................................... 45 

     Juries in Bankruptcy Cases .................................. 48 

     Use of Voter Registration Lists .............................. 48 

Legislation: 

     S. 	204 to Amend the Criminal Code to Make 

        it a Crime to Use for Fraudulent Purposes 

        any Computer Owned or Operated by the United 

        States, Certain Financial Institutions and 

        Entities Affecting Interstate Commerce ..................... 44 

     S. 506 and H.R. 5200 to Amend Title VIII of 

        the Civil Rights Act of 1968 to Revise the 

        Procedures for the Enforcement of Fair 

        Housing and for other purposes ........................... 13 

     S. 702 to Establish Alternatives to Criminal 

        Prosecution for Certain Persons Charged with 

        Offenses Against the United States ........................ .43 

                                                  63 


Legislation (cant 'd.)
    S. 739 and H.R. 5130 Relating to Venue in
       Cases in the District Courts and on Appeal .................. 11
    S. 1477, Federal Courts Improvements Act of
       1979, Containing an Amendment to Alter the
       Standard of Judicial Review Applied in
       Resolving Legal Issues Raised in Challenges
       to Agency Action under the Administrative
       Procedure Act. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8
    S. 	1654 to Improve Federal Judicial Machinery
       by Clarifying and Revising Certain Provisions
       of the Judicial Code to Give the Customs Court
       Jurisdiction in any Civil Action Arising
       Directly Out of an Import Transaction ..................... 14
    S. 2100 to Authorize the Court in Cases Involving
       Narcotic Trafficking to Impose such Conditions
       of Release Pending Trial as are Reasonably Necessary
       to Insure that the Person will not Engage in
       the Conduct Proscribed by the Offense During Trial. ......... 43
    H.R. 4736 to Establish Certain Pretrial and
       Trial Procedures for the Use of Classified Information ....... 44
    H.R. 	5103 to Provide for Better Access to
       the Federal Courts for Small Businesses and to Permit a Small
       Business to File a Petition in the District Court .............. 15
    H.R. 5342, Equal Access to Justice Act to
       Provide for an Award of Costs and Attorney's
       Fees to Certain Prevailing Parties .......................... 10
    H.R. 	5563 to Provide that Certain Judicial
       Proceedings in the United States District
       Court of Puerto Rico be Conducted in the
       Spanish Language ....................................... 45
    H.R. 5924 and H.R. 6060 designating Santa
       Ana as an Additional Place of Holding Court
       in the Central District of California. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9
    H. R. 5935 to Protect the Privacy of Medical
       Information Maintained by Medical Care Facilities ........... 12
    H.R. 5697 and H.R. 5789 designating Santa
       Ana and Riverside as Places of Holding Court. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9
    Draft Bill to Reconstitute the Court of
       Military Appeals as an Independent Court under
       Article I of the Constitution of the United States ............. 16
Magistrates:
    Authorization to Serve in Adjoining Districts .................. 40
    Changes in Positions ....................................... 35
                                                   64 


Magistrates (cont 'do)
     Financial Disclosure Reports for Part-time 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 024 

     Legal Assistant Positions 0 0 0 0 0 0 0• 0 • 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0• 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 032 

    Qualification Standards and Selection Procedures 0 0 0 0 0 0 0• 0 • 0 • 0 032 

     Rules 00. 0 0.0000000000000.0000000000000000000000000000000054 

Magistrates System: 

     Administrative Regulations 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 • 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 • 0 .00 0 0 000 033 

    Authorization to Serve in Adjoining Districts 0 0 0 0 0• 0 0 0 0•• 0 0 0 0 0 040 

     Changes in Magistrates Positions 0 0 0 0 • 0 0 ••• 0 • 0 • 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0•••• 0• 35 

     Committee on, Report of ......... 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0• 0 0 0 0 0 0 •••••• 32 

     Legal Assistant Positions . 0••• 0 • 0 •••• 0•••••• 0•••••• 0 • 0 •••••• 32 

     Qualification Standards and Selection Procedures.                      0   •   0   ••••••••••32

     Salaries of Full-time Magistrates ..... 0 0 0 0 0 ••••••• 0 0 0 0 • 0•••• 0 034 

     Small Business Judicial Access Act of 19790 0••• 0 • 0 0 •• 0 • 0 • 0 0 0 •• 34 

Medical Privacy Act ... 0 0 0 0 •• 0• 0 0 0 • 0 • 0 0 ••••• 0•• 0••••• 0 • 0 00' ••• 0 12 

Military Appeals, Court of. 0••••••••••••• 0 •• 0 0 •••••• 0 0 •• 0 • 0 ••••• 16 

Opinions, Printing of .. 0 0 0 •• 0 0 0 0 0 • 0 ••••• 0• 0 ••••••••• 0 • 0 • 0 • 0 • 0 •• 5 

Places of Holding Court: 

     Bills to Designate Santa Ana and Riverside 

       as Places of Holding Court . 0 • 0•• 0 0 0•• 0 0 0 •• 0 •• 0•• 0 0 • 0 ••• o. 9 

Pretermission of Terms of Courts of Appeals .. 0.00 •••• 0••••••• 0.0.56 

Pretrial Diversion .............................................. 43 

Pretrial Release Legislation ...............                  0   •••••••••••••••••••••           43 

Pretrial Services Agencies ....................................... 29 

Pretrial and Trial Procedures for the Use of 

  Classified Information ....................................... 44 

Probation Officers: 

    Salaries .......... 0•••••••• 0•• 0•••••••••• 0••••••••• 0 0 ••••• 21 

Probation System: 

    Committee on, Report of ................................... 29 

     Pretrial Services Agencies .. 0•••• 0••••••••••••••• 0••••••••••• 29 

     Sentencing Institutes ....................... 0•••••••• 0 0 0 •••• 29 

Records Disposition Program ...... 0 • 0 0••••••••••• 0••••• 0••••••• 55 

Reporting, Court Reporters' Private ........ 0••••• 0. 0 • 0••• 0•• 0•••• 19 

Resolutions: 

    Amendment to Resolution of September 1979 

      on Affirmative Action. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 

    Membership in Clubs . 0•••••• 0 0 0 0 •• 0 0 •••• 0••• 0 0 • 0 • 0 •• 0••••• 28 

    Recommending Continued Funding and Expansion 

       of the Pretrial Services Operation .... 0••••••••• 0 • 0• 0 • 0 • • •• 30 

Rules of Practice and Procedure: 

    Committee Documents 0• 0 •• 0 • 0 0 0 0•••••• 0••• 0 0 0••••••• 0 0 0 0 •• 54 

    Committee on, Report of ...... 0••••• 0•••••••••• 0•••• 0• 0 0• 0 • 54 

    Magistrates Rules.          0   •••••   0   ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••               54 

                                                    65 


Salaries:
     Bankruptcy Judges ......................................... 31 

     Chief Probation Officers ................................... 21 

     Magistrates ............................................... 34 

     Secretaries ................................................ 20 

Secretaries' Salaries ............................................ 20 

Security, Court ................................................ 23 

Sentencing Institutes ........................................... 29 

Sessions, Honorable William S., elected to the Board 

  of the Federal Judicial Center, vice Judge McGarr ............... 56 

Small Business Judicial Access Act of 1979 ........................ 15 

Staff Attorneys: 

     Codes of Conduct ......................................... 27 

Standing Committee Documents, Release of ....................... 54 

Statistics: 

     Bankruptcy Courts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 

     Courts of Appeals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 

     Criminal Justice Act ....................................... 50 

     District Courts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 

     Financial Disclosure Inquiries ............................... 27 

     Financial Disclosure Reports ................................ 24 

     Intercircuit Assignments .................................... 49 

     Multidistrict Litigation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 

Termination of the Work of the ad hoc Committee on 

  Records Disposition .......................................... 56 

Transition Advisory Committee of Bankruptcy-

  Judges: 

     Proposal to Provide that the Fees and Expense 

        Allowances to be Paid to Jurors in Bankruptcy Courts 

        be Disbursed by the Clerk of the United States 

        District Court Rather than Clerks of the Bankruptcy Courts ... 49 

     Proposal to Provide for the Participation of 

        a Bankruptcy Judge in the Design and Review of the 

        Jury Selection Plan to be Followed in each 

        Judicial District ......................................... 49 

Venue in Courts of Appeals and District Courts ................... 11 

Voter Registration Lists, Use of ................................. 48 


                             '" u.s.   GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE, 19800- 625-515/1932         REGION     3-1 

