                REPORT
                  of the
        PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

    JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

          UNITED STATES 




            September 22-23, 1982




              Wash~ton,    D.C.
                    1982




I
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE
   ~TEDSTATESCOURTS



        William E. Foley 

            Director 

           REPORT 

              of the 

   PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 


        September 22-23, 1982




          Washington, D.C.
               1982
        THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331

§331.   JUDIC1AL CONfERENCE Of THE UN1TED STATES


  The Chief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of each
judicial circuit, the chief judge of the Court of Claims, the chief judge of the Court of Cus·
toms and Patent Appeals, and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at
such time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such
conference which shall be known as the Judicial Conference of the United States. Special
sessions of the conference may be called by the Chief Justice at such times and places as
he may designate.
   The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the
circuit and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held
pursuant to section 333 of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for three
successive years, except that in the year following the enactment of this amended section
the judges in the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth circuits shall choose a district judge to
serve for one year. the judges in the second. firth. and eighth circuits shall choose a district
judge to serve for two years and the judges in the third, sixth. ninth, and District of
Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for three years.
   If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit
is unable to attend, the Chief lustice may summon any other circuit or district judge from
such circuit. If the chief judge of the Court of Claims or the chief judge of the Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon an
associate judge of such court. Every judge summoned shall attend, and, unless excused by
the Chief Justice, shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to
the needs of his circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of which the administra­
tion of justice in the courts of the United States may be improved.
  The conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from cir­
cuits or districts where necessary. and shall submit suggestions to the various courts, in the
interest of uniformity and expedition of business.
   The conference shall also carry on a continuous study of the operation and effect of the
general rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as prescribed by the
Supreme Court for the other courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes
in and additions to those rules as the conference may deem desirable to promote simplicity
in procedure, fairness in administration, the just determination of litigation, and the e1im·
ination of unjustifiable expense and delay shall be recommended by the conference from
time to time to the Supreme Court for its consideration and aoopti(l1, modification or
rejection, in acmrdance with law.
   The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice, report to such conference
on matters relating to the business of the several coutts of the United States, with par­
ticular reference to cases to which the United States is a party.
  The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings of the
ludicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.



                                              iv
                             TABLE OF CONTENTS 


             REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

         JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES 


                             September 22-23, 1982 



                                                                                    Page

Call of the Conference • . • • . • . . . . • • • . . . . . . • . . • • . . • .       55 

Report of the Director of the Administrative 

    Office of the United States Courts ...•••.•.••••.••                              57 

    Judicial Business of the Courts •• • . • • • • . • • • . • • • • • •             57 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. • • • • • . . • • . . • • •              58 

Committee on the Judicial Branch. • . • . • . • • • • • • • . • • • • •              59 

    Judicial Salary Control Act of 1981 . . • • • . • • • . • . . • • •              59 

    Commission on the Bicentennial of 

      the Constitution. • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • •      60 

Committee on Court Administration •••.••••••••••••••                                 60 

    Additional Judgeships. • • . • • • • • • . • • • . . • • • • • . • • • •         60 

    United States Immigration Court. • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • • •               63 

    Social Security Court • • . • • • • • . . . • • • • • • • • • . • • • • •        64 

    Judicial Review of the Denial 

      of Veterans Claims. . • . • • • . • • • • • • • . • . • • • . • • • • •        65 

    Contribution and Claims Reduction 

      in Anti trust Cases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      66 

    Congressional Redistricting. • • • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •           67 

    Review of Decisions of the Employees' 

      Compensation Appeals Board. • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • •              67 

    Judicial Restraint Act •••••.•••••••••••••••••••                                 68 

  . Jurisdiction of Bankruptcy Courts • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • •              68 

    Venue in Courts of Appeals and 

      District Courts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     69 

    National Court of Appeals and 

      Intercircuit Tribunal of the 

      United States Courts of Appeals ••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                71 

    National Judicial Study Commission. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                71 

    Technical Amendments to Title 28, 

      United States Code, Section 1364 ••••••••••••••••                              72 

    Residences of Clerks of Court. • • • • . • . . . • • • • • • • • • •             72 

    Places of Holding Court ••••••••••••••••••••••••                                 72 

    Waiver of Overpayments. • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • •            73 

    Court Interpreters Act • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •         73 

    Travel Regulations for Justices 

      and Judges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    74 

Court Administration (Cont'd) 

    Litigation Expenses of Judicial Officers. • . . . • . . . . . • •                 75 

    Miscellaneous Fees ..••..••..... , • • . • . . • . . • • • • •                    76 

    Space Utilization Survey. . . • • . . . . . . . . • . • • • • • • • • •           77 

    Authorization of Temporary 

     Personnel for Judges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . • • . .          77 

    Court Reporters. . • . . . . . • • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • • . • • .        79 

    Changes in Authorization and Compensation 

     of Supporting Clerical Staff .........•.••....•••                                80 

Committee on the Budget. . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . .            80 

    Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1984 . • . . • . • • . . • • •                 80 

    Supporting Personnel for Senior Judges .......•••...                              81 

Judicial Ethics Committee .•....••.•••...........•.                                   81 

    Activities of the Committee. • • • . • . . . • . . . • . . • • . . .              81 

    Reporting Form and Instructions. • . • • • . . . . • . • . • . • •                82 

Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct • . • . • . • . • • . . • •                    83 

    Activities of the Committee. • . • . • • • . • . • • • • • • • . . •              83 

    Applicability of Codes of Conduct. • . • . . • • • • • • • • • • •                83 

    Model Codes of Conduct for Various 

     Judicial Employees. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • •          84 

    Senior Judges Serving as Arbitrators •••••••••••••.•                              84 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                  84 

Committee on Rules of Practice 

    and Procedure •••••.•..••.•••••••.•••••••••••                                     85 

    Bankruptcy Rul es • • • • • • • . . • • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • •       85 

    Criminal Rules. . . . . . . . . • . • . • • . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •       85 

     Civil Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   86 

   Appellate Rules . • • . . . . • . . • • • • • . • . . . • • • • . • . • • •        86 

   Statement of Operating Procedures. • • • . • . • . . • • • • • •                   86 

Committee on the Administration of 

   the Probation System • • . • • • . . . . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • •           87 

   Sentencing Institutes ••..•.....•••.••••••••••••                                   87 

   Sentencing Reform. • • • . . • • • • • • . . . • . • • . • . . • • • • •           87 

Committee on the Administration of the 

   Bankruptcy System. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . . • • • • • • • •           88 

   Survey of the Need for Bankruptcy Judges. • . • • • • • • • •                      88 

   Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                    88 

   Guidelines for Chapter 13 Administration. • • • • • • • • • • •                    90 

   Jurisdictional Conflicts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •          91 

   Bankruptcy Appeals in District Courts. . • • • • • . • • • • • •                   91 

Committee on the Administration of 

   the Federal Magistrates System. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                92 

   Jurisdiction of Magistrates • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            92 

   Qualification Standards and 

    Selection Procedures •••••••••••••••••••••••••                                    93 

   Changes in Magistrates Positions. • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •                94 




                                           vi
Committee to Implement the Criminal 

   Justi ce Act •. . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                                  107 

   Appointments and Payments. . . . • • . . . • • . . . . . • . . ..                                             107 

   Budget Requests - Federal Public 

     Defenders ...••.•.•.••.•...... . . • . . . . . . . . ..                                                     108 

   Grant Requests - Community Defender 

     Organizations. . . . . • • . . . • • . • • . . . • • . . . • . • • . . ••                                   109 

   Funding for the Federal Public Defender 

     in the Southern District of Florida. • • . • . • • . • • . . . .•                                           11 0 

   Guidelines • . • . • . • • • • . . • • • . • • • . • . • • . . . . . . • . •.                                 III 

Committee on the Administration of 

   the Criminal Law. . . . . • • . • • • • . • . . • . . • . . . • • . . ..                                      III 

   Interlocutory Appeals • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • . . . . . • • . . ••                                      112 

   Sealing of Records Under the Youth 

     Corrections Act. . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • • . . . • • • • • • . ..                                     112 

   Amendments to the Smuggling Statute. • . • . . . . • . . . •.                                                 112 

   Commitment of Mentally Incompetent 

     Offenders ••.••••••.••.•••...•••.•••..••...                                                                 113 

Committee on the Operation of the 

   Jury System .•••..•••..••...•.•..•.•..•...••.                                                                 113 

   Judges' Manual for the Management 

     of Com plex Criminal Jury Cases • • • . . • . . . . . • • . • ••                                            113 

   Periodic Reporting - Jury Selection. . • • • • . • • . • • • • ••                                             114 

   Voir Dire Examination •••••.••••..••...•••••.••                                                               114 

   Witnesses Before Grand Juries. • • . • • • . . • • • . . • • • . •.                                           115 

   Tax Treatment of Jurors' Attendance Fees. • . • • . . • • •.                                                  115 

   Juror Qualification Questionnaire •...••••.••••••••                                                           116 

Implementation Committee on Admission 

   of Attorneys to Federal Practice. • • • • • • • • • . • • . • • ••                                            116 

Committee on Pacific Territories. • • • • . . . • • . . . • • . . • ••                                           117 

Committee on Judgeship Vacancies . • • • • • • . • • • • . • . • • •.                                            117 

Ad Hoc Committee on the Disposition 

   of Court Records • . • . . • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • • • • •.                                     118 

    Records Disposition Program and Schedule. . • . • . • • • ..                                                 118 

   Termination of the Work of the Committee ••••••••••                                                           119 

Elections . . .. . .. . .. . . .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . ....   119 

Committee to Review Circuit Council 

   Conduct and Disability Orders. • • • • . • • • • • • . • • . • • ••                                           120 

Committee on the Selection of Law Clerks. . . . • . . . . • . . .•                                               120 

Ad Hoc Committee on Judicial Review 

   Provisions in Regulatory Reform 

       Legisla ti on.. .. .. .. . . .. .. . .. . . .. .. .. . .. . . .. . . . .. .. .. . . . .. . .. ...         120 

Courtroom Facilities .•••••••••••••••.•••.•••.••••                                                               121 

Pretermission of Terms of the 

    Courts of Appeals.............................                                                               121 

Release of Conference Action. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                                         121 


                                                          vii
                 REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

                 OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 

                     OF THE UNITED STATES 


                     September 22-23, 1982 


       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened
on September 22, 1982, pursuant to the call of the Chief
Justice of the United States, issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and
continued in session on September 23rd. The Chief Justice
presided and the following members of the Conference were
present:

First Circuit:

    Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin
    Judge W. Arthur Garrity, Jr., District of Massachusetts

Second Circuit:

    Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
    Chief Judge Constance B. Motley, Southern District of
      New York

Third Circuit:

    Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz 

    Chief Judge Gerald .T. Weber, Western District of 

      Pennsylvania 


Fourth Circuit:

    Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
    Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., Eastern District of Virginia

Fifth Circuit:

    Chief Judge Charles Clark
    Chief Judge John V. Singleton, Jr., Southern District of
      Texas

Sixth Circuit:

    Chief Judge George C. Edwards, Jr. 

    Chief Judge Frank J. Battisti, Northern District of Ohio 

                             56



Seventh Circuit:

    Chief Judge Walter J. Cummings 

    Chief Judge John W. Reynolds, Eastern District of 

      Wisconsin 


Eighth Circuit:

    Chief Judge Donald P. Lay 

    Judge Albert G. Schatz, District of Nebraska 


Ninth Circuit:

    Chief Judge James R. Browning
    Judge Manuel L. Real, Central District of California

Tenth Circuit:

    Chief Judge Oliver Seth
    Chief Judge Luther B. Eubanks, Western District of
      Oklahoma

Eleventh Circuit:

    Chief Judge John C. Godbold 

    Judge William C. O'Kelley, Northern District of 

      Georgia 


District of Columbia:

    Chief Judge Spottswood W. Robinson, III
    Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District of Columbia

Court of Claims:

    Chief Judge Daniel M. Friedman

Court of Customs and Patent Appeals:

    Chief Judge Howard T. Markey

       Circuit Judges Irving R. Kaufman, Anthony M. Kennedy,
Otto R. Skopil Jr., Edward A. Tamm, and Gerald B. Tjoflatj
Senior Circuit Judges Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr. and Carl
McGowan; Senior District Judges Elmo B. Hunter and Thoma~
J. MacBride; and District Judges T. Emmet Clarie, Robert E
                              57 




DeMascio, Edward T. Gignoux and Alexander Harvey II,
attended all or some of the sessions of the Conference.

      The Deputy Attorney General of the United States,
Honorable Edward C. Schmults, and the Solicitor General of
the United States, Honorable Rex E. Lee, addressed the
Conference briefly on matters of mutual interest to the
Department of Justice and the Conference.

       William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
Director; James E. Macklin, Assistant Director; William J.
Weller, Legislative Affairs Officer; Michael J. Remington,
Deputy Legislative Affairs Officer; Deborah H. Kirk, Chief,
Office of Management Review; and Charles W. Nihan, Deputy
Director of the Federal Judicial Center, attended sessions of
the Conference. Mark W. Cannon, Administrative Assistant to
the Chief Justice, and John Yoder of the Supreme Court staff,
attended sessions of the Conference. The Director of the
Federal JUdicial Center, A. Leo Levin, presented the Center's
Annual Report.


               REPORT OF THE DffiECTOR 

             OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

             OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 


       The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, William E. Foley, submitted to the Conference
the Annual Report of the Director for the year ended June 30,
1982. The Conference authorized the Director to release the
Annual Report immediately in preliminary form and to revise
and supplement the final printed edition.

       Separate reports on payments under the Equal Access to
Justice Act and on the operation of equal employment
opportunity plans in the courts, filed by the Director, were also
received by the Conference and authorized to be released.

            JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

       Mr. Foley reported that appeals docketed in the United
States courts of appeals during the year ended June 30, 1982
increased 6 percent to a record 27,947 appeals filed. During
the year the courts of appeals terminated 27,984 appeals, an
                              58 




increase of 11.6 percent over the previous year and 38 appeals
more than the number filed. As a result, the number of
appeals pending on June 30, 1982 rleclined for the first time
since 1958 to 21,510 pending appeals.

       Civil cases filed in the United States district courts
during the year ended June 30, 1982 were 206,193, an increase
of 14.2 percent over the 180,576 civil cases filed during the
previous year. There were 189,473 civil cases terminated, 6.5
percent more than the previous year, and the pending civil
caseload increased 8.9 percent to a record 205,434 cases as of
June 30, 1982.

       Criminal cases filed in the district courts in 1982
climbed to 32,682, an increase of 4.5 percent over 1981. There
were 31,889 criminal cases closed during the year, and on June
30, 1982 there were 16,659 criminal cases pending, an increase
of 5.1 percent. During the year prosecutions for marijuana
drug violations increased 39.9 percent and all other drug
related cases increased 11.5 percent. Prosecutions under laws
relating to weapons and firearms continued to increase during
the year, rising 36.2 percent. Prosecutions for forgery and
counterfeiting also rose substantially increasing 17.6 percent,
while auto theft prosecutions increased 21.0 percent.

       During the year ended June 30, 1982 there were 367,866
bankruptcy cases, representing 527,342 separate estates, filed
in the United States bankrupcy courts. An additional 469
estates in cases originally filed under the Bankruptcy Act prior
to October I, 1979 were reopened. The bankruptcy courts thus
received 527,811 new bankruptcy cases during the year, an
increase of 1.7 percent. This is a leveling off in the filing of
bankruptcy estates from the increase of 43.8 percent in 1981
and 59.4 percent in 1980. There were 412,852 bankruptcy
estates closed during the year, an increase of 28.3 percent over
the previous year, but almost 215,000 estates less than the
number filed. As a result the number of estates pending on the
dockets of the bankruptcy courts on June 30, 1982 increased
18.6 percent to a record 723,871.


     JUDICIAL PANEL ON MULTIDISTR[CT LITIGATION

       A written statement filed with the Conference by the
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation indicated that during
the year ended June 30, 1982 the Panel had acted on 683 civil
                              59 




actions pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407. Of that number, 454
actions were centralized for consolidated pretrial proceedings
with 229 actions already pending in the various transferee
districts at the time of transfer. The Panel denied transfer of
155 civil actions.

       Since its creation in 1968 the Panel has transferred
11,094 civil actions for centralized pretrial proceedings in
carrying out its responsibilities.      As of June 30, 1982,
approximately 8,814 cases had been remanded for trial,
reassigned within the transferee district, or terminated in the
transferee court.      On June 30, 1982 there were 2,280
transferred civil actions being processed by transferee judges.


          COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

       Judge Irving R. Kaufman, Chairman of the Committee
on the Judicial Branch, submitted the Committee's report.


        JUDICIAL SALARY CONTROL ACT OF 1981

        S. 1847, 97th Congress, is a bill to prohibit any future
increases in salaries of Federal judges absent an affirmative
record vote in both Houses of Congress, and to require an
annual review by both Houses of Congress of all standing
SUbstantive program authorizations for judicial branch
activities. The Conference in March 1982 (Conf. Rept. p. 5)
recognized the ultimate final authority of Congress to set
judicial salaries, but expressed its preference for the draft
legislation to create a biennial commission on judicial salaries
previously approved by the Conference. The Conference
further agreed that the bill's objectives with respect to annual
program authorizations are unnecessary and unwise.
       Judge Kaufman stated that the Committee had again
reviewed this proposed legislation and concluded that the
Judicial Conference should renew its opposition to the passage
of S. 1847 or any successor legislation.            Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference adopted
the following resolution:

       Resolved, that the Judicial Conference of the
       United States opposes the passage of S. 1847 or
       of any bill replacing or resembling it, or
                              flO



       providing for annual program oversight of judicial
       operations.


         COl'vtl'lHSSION ON THE BICENTENNIAL OF 

                      THE CONSTITUTION 


       Judge Kaufman stated that the Committee had
unanimously endorsed pending legislation, S. 2671, 97th
Congress, which would establish a Commission on the
Bicentennial of the Constitution to promote and coordinate
activities to commemorate the wisdom and endurance of that
document. The Committee noted that the bill would provide
for the appointment of Commission members by the President
from lists of nominees submitted by the Speaker of the House,
the President Pro Tempore of the Senate and the Chief <Tustice
of the United States.        The Conference agreed that a
Bicentennial Commission with appointments made in
cooperation with all three separate branches of the
Government will enable the Nation to celebrate the
bicentennial appropriately and voted to approve the legislation.

    The Conference authorized the             release   of   the
Committee's report to all Federal judges.


         COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

      Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration, presented the report of the Committee.


                  ADDITION AL JUDGESHIPS

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Com mhtee had reviewed the results of the 1982 biennial
survey conducted by the Subcommittee on Judicial Statistics
and had voted to recommend the creation of additional
judgeships in the United States courts of appeals and in the
United States district courts. Since the Congress has not as
yet acted on the Conference recommendations for additional
judgeships resulting from the 1980 biennial survey, the
Committee's recommendations include those previously made
by the Conference.
                                  61



       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference recommended the creation of additional judgeship
positions in the United States courts of appeals as follows:

   District of Columbia Circuit •....•......... I
   First Circuit .......•.......•.......••• 2
   Second Circuit ........•..•...•..•..•... 2
   Third Circuit ...................••....• 2
   Fourth C ircui t ..•......•...•••...••..•. I
   Sixth Circuit ••.••..•.••..•........•.•. 4
   Seventh Circuit ......•...•..••..•...•.• 2
   Eighth Circuit .••.•.....•....•••..••... I
   Ninth Circuit .•••..•...••••.•..•••••.•• 5
   Tenth Circuit ..•.•••••.••••..•......... 2
      TOTAL ••.•••.••.•••..•.•.....•..• 22

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference also recommended the creation of additional
permanent and temporary judgeships in the following United
States district courts, including the conversion of certain
temporary judgeship positions to permanent status:

    First Circuit:

       Massachusetts ••••. . . • • •. I + 1 temporary
       Rhode Island ..•..•..•••• 1
    Second Circuit:

       Connecti cut. • • • • • • • . • . ••   I
       New York, Northern • . • • • ••        1
       New York, Eastern. • • • • • •.        2
       New York, Western. • • • • • ••        1 temporary

    Third Circuit:

       New Jersey • • • • • . • • . . . •. 3

    Fourth Circuit:
       Maryland. • . • . • • • • • • • • •• I
       North Carolina,
        Eastern • • • • • • • • • • • • • •. Item porary
       Virginia, Eastern ••••••••• I
                                  62



   Fifth Circuit:

      Louisiana, Western ....... . 

      Mississi ppi, 

       Northern •.•......•..•. 

      Mississippi, 

       Southern . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 

      Texas, Eastern • . • • • . . . . •. 2 

      Texas, Western. . • . • . . . . •. 1 


   Sixth Circuit:

      Kentucky, Western. . . . . . .•          1
      Michigan, Eastern ••.•...••              2
      Ohio, Northern. • . . • . . . • ••       1 temporary + t/p*
      Tennessee, Eastern. • • • • • ..         1
      Tennessee, Western ...•...               1

   Seventh Circuit:

      Illinois,
        Northern . . . . . . • • • . . . •• 3 + 1 temporary
      Illi nois, Sou t hern ..••.••.. 1
      Indiana,
        Northern. • • . . • . . • • . • •• 1 temporary

    Eighth Circuit:

      Arkansas,
         Western. . . . • . . • • . . • • .. I temporary
      Minnesota . . • . . . . . . . • . •. t/p*
      'VI issouri, Eastern • • • • • • . •. ]

    Ninth Circuit:

      Alaska. • • . • . . . . . • • . • • ..   ]

      California, Central. • • • • • ..        4

      HawaH ....•....••...•••                  ]

      Montana ..•••..•..•••••                  I

      Washington, 

       Western. • . • • • • • . . . • • ••     I + 1 temporary



*Existing temporary position to be converted to permanent.
                                63



   Tenth Circuit:

      Oklahoma, Western. . • • • • .• I 

      Wyoming. • . • . • . • . • . • • .. I 


    Eleventh Circuit:

      Alabama, Southern. • • • . • •• 1 

      Florida, Southern • . . • • . • •. 3 

      Georgia, Middle . • • • • • . • •. 1 


      Total. • • • • . . . . . • • . • • • •. 	 43 + 8 temporary + 2
                                                temps. to be made
                                                permanent


       The Conference also authorized the Committee to
consider further the need for additional judgeship positions in
the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and any emergency
requests from individual courts and to report thereon at the
next session of the Conference.


           UNITED STATES IMMIGRATION COURT

        H.R. 5649 and H.R. 5771, 97th Congress, are identical
bills to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to create
an Article I United States Immigration Court within the
Executive Branch consisting of 50 trial judges, including the
chief judge, and seven appellate judges all of whom are to be
appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate to serve for terms of 15 years and to receive the
same salaries as circuit and district judges.

       Jurisdh tion would be exclusive in the trial division of
the court relative to the determination of (a) exclusion cases,
(b) deportation cases, and (c) rescission of adjustment of status
cases. In addition, the trial division would determine all
applications for discretionary relief properly raised in the
proceedings, including those relating to bond, parole, habeas
corpus, or detention of an alien in such proceedings. The
powers of the district courts to issue writs of habeas corpus
and extraordinary writs, and to order injunctive and
declaratory relief, would be removed from these courts and
made exclusive in the Immigration Court.
                                64



        The appellate division of the court would hear and
determine appeals from (a) final decisions of asylum officers,
(b) final adjudicatory decisions of service concerning (1)
administrative fines and penalties, (2) petitions for
classification, (3) petitions to classify an alien as an orphan, (4)
applications for the exercise of discretionary authority, and (5)
final decisions of the judges of the trial division. Decisions of
the appellate division would be reviewable by the United States
Supreme Court (1) by appeal from a decision holding an Act of
Congress unconstitutional, and (2) by writ of certiorari granted
upon a petition in a case which did not originate before an
asylum officer.

        Although expressing concern over the constitutionality
of several provisions in the bills, the Committee recommended
that the Conference take no position on the merits of the
legislation. If, however, the Congress determines that there is
a need for a separate Immigration and Naturalization Court,
then the Committee recommended that the Conference take a
position    consistent    with     its   previously  enunciated
recommendations on the creation of a Social Security Court, or
a Court of Veterans Appeals, under Article I of the
Constitution; that is, that the court be created within the
Executive Branch of Government, that appeals from decisions
of the court not be mandatorily directed to the Supreme Court
but handled in the same manner as appeals from the Tax Court
(to the appropriate court of appeals), and that judicial review
by the Article m courts be limited to the review of
constitutional     issues   and      questions    of  statutory
interpretation. This recommendation was approved by the
Conference.


                  SOCIAL SECURITY COURT

       H.R. 3865 and H.R. 5700, 97th Congress, would create
an Executive Branch Social Security Court under Article I of
the Constitution to serve as a judicial forum to review (1) all
decisions rendered under the old-age, survivors, and disability
insurance programs, and (2) all final determinations under the
supplemental security income program. The bills differ only in
that H.R. 3865 would create an intermediate review board to
affirm, reverse, remand, or modify an administrative law
judge's decision before it becomes the final decision of the
Secretary.
                               65



       The Committee recommended that the Conference
reaffirm its previous recommendation (Conf. Rept. Sept. HISI,
p. 67) that factual determinations be made final in the
Article I tribunal and that judicial review in Article III courts
be restricted to issues of constitutionality or statutory
interpretation only.    Further, appellate review should be
provided in the same manner as appeals from the Tax Court;
that is, to the appropriate United States court of appeals
rather than the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit only.


             JUDICIAL REVIEW OF THE DENIAL 

                  OF VETERANS CLAIMS 


       S. 349, 97th Congress, is a bill to provide for the judicial
review of denials of veterans claims. The bill would establish
procedures within the Veterans Administration for the
adjudication of veterans claims, require the Veterans
Administration to conform to the rule-making procedures of
Sec. 553 of the Administrative Procedure Act and provide for
the judicial review of final decisions of the Board of Veterans
Appeals in the district courts.

        The Conference in March 1963 (Conf. Rept. p. 18)
disapproved legislation to provide for the review of decisions
of the Administrator of Veterans Affairs in the district courts
and recommended that jurisdiction be vested in a special
Executive Branch court of appeals.           This position was
reaffirmed by the Conference in March 1978 (Conf. Rept. p.
9). Because of the constantly growing caseloads of the district
courts and in the belief that it was not practical or desirable to
impose additional case filings involving veterans appeals on
these courts, the Conference in September 1981 (Conf. Rept.
p. 65) voted to recommend that the review of veterans claims
be conferred exclusively upon the Board of Veterans Appeals or
upon a new Executive Branch Article I court, noting that the
appellate review of the decisions of the Board of Veterans
Appeals, or a new Executive Branch court, by the district
courts, courts of appeals and Supreme Court, is most
undesirable in view of the potential inpact on the caseloads of
these courts. In September 1981 the Conference also noted
that if judicial review were deemed to be appropriate, it should
be limited to the review of constitutional issues and questions
of statutory interpretation.
                             66



        At the suggestion of the Committee the Conference
voted to renew its recommendation to the Congress that any
initial review of a decision by the Veterans Administration
denying a veteran's claim be made by the Board of Veterans
Appeals or a new Executive Branch Court of Veterans Appeals
and that any appellate review thereafter by district courts be
limited to constitutional issues and questions of statutory
interpretation.


       CONTRIBUTION AND CLAIMS REDUCTION IN
                 ANTITR UST CASES
       H.R. 1242, H.R. 4072, H.R. 5794, and S. 995, 97th
Congress, would aU create rights of contribution and claims
reduction in private civil antitrust cases. The Chairman of the
House Committee on the Judiciary had requested Conference
views and assistance on the issue of "whether these proposals
would substantially add to the complexity and burden of
private antitrust litigation".
       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference voted to take no position on the wisdom or
propriety of adopting legislation adding principles of
contribution and claims reduction to antitrust law. The
Conference, however, voted to report to the Chairman of the
Committee: (}) that contribution, as contemplated in H.R.
1242, H.R. 4072 and H.R. 5794, may substantially add to the
complexity and burden of managing private antitrust litigation
by enabling defendants to add new claims and parties, thereby
noticably lengthening the time between filing and disposition
of antitrust actions; (2) that antitrust actions with
contribution, including multi-party class actions, will be
manageable, but will require a vigorous and careful attention
by trial judges and will materially add to the quantity of time
to be devoted to such cases; (3) that contribution may
complicate the settlement process, thereby expanding the time
judges must spend on it, and will likely reduce the settlement
incentives, thereby tending to lower the probability of
settlement to an appreciable but not otherwise predictable
degree; (4) that a time limitation for bringing claims of
contribution would be of genuine assistance in bringing them to
a conclusion, if contribution is adopted; and (5) that claim
redUction does not seemingly involve unmanageable impact or
burdens.             '
                               67 




              CONGRESSIONAL REDISTRICTING

       H.R. 5529, 97th Congress, is a bill to impose certain
objective requirements on State legislatures and Federal courts
with respect to the establishment of congressional districts on
the basis of the most recent dicennial census, and for other
purposes. The bill would require that congressional districts (1)
be drawn with regard to natural geographic barriers; (2) to the
extent consistent with geography coincide with the boundaries
of local political subdivisions; (3) to the extent consistent with
the first two standards, be compact in form; (4) specify that a
2 percent variation from absolute numerical equality would be
"reasonable"; (5) prohibit political gerrymandering; and (6)
prohibit the drawing of boundaries that would deny effective
voting representation to any minority group. Any civil action
to determine IfsUbstantial compliancelf with these guidelines
would be required to be heard by a three-judge court.
       The Conference in September 1961 (Conf. Rept. p. 80)
considered similar legislation and took the view that " the
grant of jurisdiction to the district courts proposed by the bill
involves a question of public policy for Congress to determine!1
and voted to take no action on the bill. In September 1963 the
Conference considered bills that would provide that
congressional districts be composed of contiguous and compact
territory and voted to take no action on these bil1s "since they
are matters for congressional policy rather than for judiciary
consideration" (Conf. Rept. p. 70).
      Since H.R. 5529 more clearly involves an issue of policy
than the bills previously considered by the Conference, the
Committee rcommended that the Conference take no position
with respect to the proposals contained in this bill. This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.

            REVIEW OF DECISIONS OF THE
      EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION APPEALS BOARD
       S. 2296, 97th Congress, is a bill to provide district court
jurisdiction to review decisions of the Department of Labor
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board. Specifically, the bill
would add a Section 1367 to Title 28, United States Code, to
provide that "district courts shall have jurisdiction of any civil
action to enforce, in whole or in part, any order of the
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, established pursuant
                              68 




to Sec. 8149 of Title 5, United States Code, and to enjoin or
suspend, in whole or in part, any decision or order of such
Board."

        Judge Hunter reported that the Committee had been
unable to obtain any information with respect to the need for
this legislation and the problem to which it is addressed and its
potential impact upon the courts and determined not to take
any position until completion of a Congressional study of its
need and impact.

                 JUDICIAL RESTRAINT ACT

       H.R. 5181, 97th Congress, would prohibit any Federal
court from making any decision, entering any judgment, or
issuing any order "which, or the effect of which, would require
funds to be expended from the United States Treasury or from
the treasury of any State for a specific purpose unless the
Congress, or the legislature of such State, as the case may be,
has adopted legislation authorizing and appropriating funds to
be expended for such purpose." A violation would make a
justice or judge of the United States subject to impeachment.
       It was the view of the Committee that H.R. 5181 is of
dubious constitutionality to the extent that it would limit the
powers of the Federal courts to fashion remedies for violations
of the Constitution and Federal laws, and in any event would
raise future policy problems for both the Legislative and
Judicial Branches of the Federal Government. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference
disapproved the bill.


         JURISDICTION OF BANKRUPTCY COURTS

        H.R. 6109 and H.R. 6978, 97th Congress, are bills to
amend the Bankruptcy Act of 1978 to provide that bankruptcy
courts would be established as independent courts of general
jurisdiction under Article m of the Constitution parallel to the
United States district courts. Both bills were introduced as
proposed remedies to problems arising from provisions in the
Bankruptcy Act of 1978 which were examined by the Supreme
Court in Northern Pi eline Construction Co. v. Marathon
Pipeline Co., _ U.S. _ June 28, 1982 •
      Judge Hunter stated that the Executive Committee of
the Conference had met to consider these bills and had voted
                              69 




to recommend in lieu thereof legislation to continue
bankruptcy courts under Article I of the Constitution but to
give to the district courts jurisdiction over proceedings
required to be heard in Article III courts. The legislation
recommended by the Executive Committee was subsequently
embodied in H.R. 7132, 97th Congress. The Conference
thereupon ratified the action taken by the Executive
Committee, recommended enactment of H.R. 7132, and
recommended that H.R. 6109 and H.R. 6978 not be enacted.

              VENUE IN COURTS OF APPEALS 

                 AND DISTRICT COURTS 


       S. 2419, 97th Congress, is a bill to amend Title 28,
United States Code, regarding venue and for other purposes.
The bill is similar to various bills introduced in the 96th
Congress and previously considered by the Conference at its
session in 'VTarch 1980 (Conf. Rept. p. II),

      The first section of the bill incorporates a procedure for
random selection when proceedings challenging agency action
have been instituted in two or more circuits within five days of
each other, a proposal previously approved by the
Conference. It also has a provision requiring any court of
appeals in which a proceeding with respect to agency action is
pending to transfer the proceeding to the court for a circuit "in
which the action under review would have a substantially
greater impact, unless the interest of justicerequiredl! the
court to retain the proceeding or to transfer it to a circuit
other than one in which the impact would be substantially
greater.

      Sec. 2 would require the Administrative Office to
administer this system of random selection.

       Sec. 3 would amend the venue statute in actions against
Federal officers and agencies by providing that venue in the
district where a defendant or plaintiff resides is proper only if
"the agency action or failure to act that is the subject of the
lawsuit would substantially affect the residents of that judicial
district" and by providing that a cause of action shall be
deemed to have arisen for purposes of 28 U.S.C. 139I(e)(2) in
the district or districts in which the residents would be
substantially affected by the action or failure to act. This
section also provides that if an action of a local environmental
nature is filed in the District of Columbia, the plaintiff is
                              70



required to send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney
General of each state affected by the action.

       Finally, Sec. 4 of the bill would amend 28 U.S.C. l404(a)
to require district courts to transfer actions against the United
States or Federal agencies or officers to a district in which the
action would have a substantially greater impact, unless the
interest of justice required the court to retain the action or
transfer it somewhere else.

        Prior bills have contained several different approaches
to a solution of the perceived problem. Some have dealt with
all cases involving the Federal government, whether they
involved environmental issues or other issues, while other bills
have spoken only to environmental cases, but included private
litigation as well as governmental litigation. Some of the bills
placed limitations on where. a suit might be brought, while
others contained a transfer provision. S. 2419 is an amalgam
of these various ideas. The notice provision contained in Sec. 3
of the bill deals only with cases of a "local environmental
nature", while the amendments to Sections l391(e) and l404(a)
would reach all actions to which Federal agencies or officers
are parties, and the amendment to Sec. 2112 would apply to all
proceedings in courts of appeals for review of agency action.
The amendment of Sec. l391(e) is a limitation on venue while
the amendments of Sections l404(a) and 2112 are transfer
provisions.

       The Conference had previously taken the position that
although considerations of venue in particular types of cases
are matters of policy for congressional determination, a more
narrowly drawn bill is preferable since it is not possible to
determine the effect of a broad amendment to the venue
statute.

       Upon the recomendation of the Committee, the
Conference voted 0) to reaffirm its position that
considerations of venue in particular types of cases are
matters of policy for Congress to decide; (2) to reaffirm its
position that it is not possible to determine the effect of a
broad amendment to the venue statute and thus question, on
that ground, so much of S. 2419 as would amend 28 U.S.C.
l391(e) in all suits against Federal agencies and officers; and
(3) to ask Congress to consider (a) whether the problem to
which the legislation is addressed is really so common and so
serious as to justify the expense and inconvenience of
                              71



administering a new venue provIsIOn, and (b) the possibility
that the legislation would impose on litigants and the courts
the essentially wasteful burden of an extensive trial to
determine the appropriate place of trial.


           NATIONAL COURT OF APPEALS AND 

            INTER CIRCUIT TRIBUN AL OF THE 

           UNITED STATES COURTS OF APPEALS 


       S. 2035, 97th Congress, is a bill to establish a National
Court of Appeals and for other purposes. The bill is similar to
S. 1529, 97th Congress, except that it provides for a position of
"Chancellor of the United States appointed by the Chief
Justice from amongst judges on active duty as members of a
United States Circuit Court of Appeals" who would, in turn,
establish a pool 'of judges to serve on the National Court of
Appeals. The Conference in March 1982 (Conf. Rept. p. 18)
voted to take no position on whether a new court or tribunal
should be created at this time, but asked the Committee to
conduct a fUrther study. The Committee recommended that
the Conference express no position on whether a new court or
tribunal should be created but that, if legislation is to be
enacted, a proposal containing a sunset provision, such as the
pending intercircuit tribunal proposal (H.R. 4762, 97th
Congress), would be preferable to the creation of a National
Court of Appeals at this time. This recommendation was
approved by the Conference.

         NATIONAL JUDICIAL STUDY COMMISSION

       The Conference in March 1982 (Conf. Rept. p. 20),
authorized the Committee to consider further the proposals to
create commissions to study the jurisdiction of State and
Federal courts, set out in S. 675 and S. 1530, 97th Congress,
because of the multiplicity of issues presented by several
aspects of the bills. It was the view of the Committee that the
creation of a Commission to study the jurisdiction of State and
Federal courts on a long range basis is desirable, but that its
creation should not interfere with the enactment of
jurisdictional changes, such as the abolition of diversity of
citizenship jurisdiction, which have already been thoroughly
studied and recommended by the Conference, and fUrther that
two study commissions should not be created.
                               72



       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference reaffirmed its approval of the creation of a
temporary study commission, as provided in S. 675, and
approved the concept of a study group on the future of the
judiciary, but expressly recommended that no permanent
commission be created.


          TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO TITJ :: 28, 

           UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 1364 


       Judge Hunter informl?d the Conference that title 28,
United States Code, now contains three subsections all having
the same designated Sec. 1364. The Conference thereupon
voted to call this situation to the attention of the Congress and
recommend that it be corrected by numbering the sections
consecutively and by making necessary conforming changes in
the table of sections and in cross-referencing.


            RESIDENCES OF CLERKS OF COURT

       H.R. 78, 97th Congress, would amend 28 U.S.C. 75l(c)
to permit any district or bankruptcy court clerk to reside
either "in the district for which he was appointed, or within 20
miles of his official station.'1 At present, only the clerks of the
district courts for the District of Columbia and the Southern
District of New York may avail themselves of the 20 mile
exception. There is no restriction on the residences of clerks
of the courts of appeals.

       The Committee could see no reason to limit the place of
residence of clerks of court, particularly in these days of rapid
transportation and communication. The Conference thereupon
voted to advise the Chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, who had requested Conference views, that the
Conference approves the legislation.


                PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

       H.R. 5526, 97th Congress, is a bill to transfer four
counties from one division of the Northern District of Georgia
to another division in the same district. The judges of the
district court recommended approval of the bill, but the
Judicial Council of the Eleventh Circuit recommended the
transfer of aU counties except Cherokee County. Upon the
                              73 




recommendation of the Committee the Conference concurred
with the action of the circuit council.


                WAIVER OF OVERPAYMENTS

       Sec. 5584 of Title 5, United States Code, authorizes the
Comptroller General or the heads of Executive agencies to
waive certain claims against employees arising out of
erroneous overpayments. There is no similar waiver power
with regard to overpayments to employees of the Judiciary.
To remedy this situation the Judicial Conference approved the
proposed legislation submitted by the Committee and
authorized its transmission to the Congress with a
recommendation that it be enacted into law.


                COURT INTERPRETERS ACT

       The Court Interpreters Act requires the Director of the
Administrative Office to "prescribe, determine, and certify the
qualifications of persons who may serve as qualified
interpreters."   28 U.S.C. 1827(b).     Since June 1979 the
Administrative Office has been conducting certification
examinations and the Director has been certifying persons to
interpret in the Spanish language. In the last year the district
courts have used interpreters for 26 separa.te languages. Next
to Spanish, the highest use in 1981 was for Haitian Creole
interpreters for about 200 appearances.         The number of
appearances for other languages did not exceed three or four
during the year.
       It was the view of the Committee that the Court
Interpreters Act should be amended to give the Director the
discretion to limit the languages for which he will establish
certification programs. The only uniform way to certify a
person's ability to interpret is by a skills' performance test.
These tests are expensive to develop and for some exotic
languages there may not be enough experts to develop them,
nor sufficient candidates to make an examination worthwhile.
To accomplish this change the Committee submitted proposed
amendments to Sections 1827(b), (d), and (i) of Title 28, United
States Code, which the Conference approved for transmission
to the Congress.
                             74 



                TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR 

                  JUSTICES AND JUDGES 


       The Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1982, P. L. 97­
164, amended 28 U.S.C. 456 to authorize the Director, subject
to regulations approved by the Conference, to reimburse a
judge for "actual and necessary expenses of subsistence
actually incurred" while the judge is "attending court or
transacting official business under an assignment authorized
under chapter 13 of this title which exceeds in duration a
continuous period of thirty calendar days." For the purpose of
implementing this amendment, the Committee submitted and
the Conference approved the following new subitem (3) to be
added to Section DO )(a) of the Travel Regulations for Justices
and Judges.

      (3) For extended absence during a continuous
      period of more than 30 calendar days, while
      attending court or transacting official business
      under an assignment away from a judge's official
      duty station, but within the conterminous United
      States, as authorized by Chapter 13, Title 28,
      United States Code, claims for actual expenses
      of subsistence shall be for such expenses actually
      incurred, not to exceed a maximum daily expense
      allowance of $125.           For such extended
      assignment outside the conterminous United
      States, the maximum daily subsistence allowance
      is the authorized per diem prescribed for the
      area, plus $83. In those instances where special
      circumstances warrant, the Director of the
      Administrative Office may raise these limits
      upon written request explaining the need for the
      increase. Claims for reimbursement under this
      paragraph should be accompanied by a copy of
      the assignment.

       The Committee was authorized to consider further the
prospects of amending the statute to authorize reimbursement
of the actual expenses of judges whenever they travel on
official business.

       Judge Hunter also pointed out that the Travel
Regulations for Justices and Justices adopted by the
Conference in September 1980 (Conf. Rept. p. 67) provided
that "a judge may be reimbursed for travel and SUbsistence
                             75 




expenses to testify before a congressional committee on behalf
of . the judiciary, or at the request of a congressional
committee. No reimbursement may be made for a vOluntary
appearance before a congressional committee." The intent of
the regulation is to provide reimbursement to those judges who
appear before Congress to present the official position of the
Judiciary as established by the Conference or one of its
Committees or Subcommittees. It was not intended to provide
reimbursement to those judges who represent private groups,
such as the American Bar Association, Federal District Court
Judges Associations, or the National Conference of Bankruptcy
Judges. Since the regulations were unclear in this respect, the
Executive Committee of the Conference approved the
following amendment to the regulations:

      A judicial officer may be reimbursed for travel
      to testify before a Congressional Committee on
      behalf of the Judiciary only if he has been
      designated to do so by the Presiding Officer of
      the Judicial Conference, a chairman of a Judicial
      Conference Committee, or the Director of the
      Administrative Office. No reimbursement may
      be made for appearances before a Congressional
      Committee or subcomittee if a judicial official is
      representing a private group or association, or
      himself, nor may reimbursement be made for
      appearances in cases in which a judge solicits a
      Congressional panel or Member to obtain an
      invitation to testify for purposes of expressing
      his or her personal opinions. In the latter two
      instances a judicial official may choose to appear
      to testify, but reimbursement from funds
      appropriated for the administration of the
      judicial branch may not be made.
       The Conference thereupon ratified the action taken by
the Executive Committee.


      LITIGATION EXPENSES OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS

      The Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1982 amended
28 U.S.C. 463, effective October 1, 1982, to read as follows:
    "Whenever a Chief Justice, justice, judge, officer,
    or employee of any United States court is sued in
                              76



    his 	 official capacity, or is otherwise required to
    defend acts taken or ommissions made in his official
    capacity, and the services of an attorney for the
    Government are not reasonably available pursuant
    to chapter 31 of this title, the Director of the
    Administrative Office of the United States Courts
    may pay the costs of his defense. The Director
    shall prescribe regulations for such payments
    subject to the approval of the Judicial Conference
    of the United States."

       Judge Hunter submitted to the Conference a set of
regulations which had been reviewed and recommended by the
Committee. In accordance with the statute the regulations
were approved by the Conference.


                   MISCELLANEOUS FEES

       The Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1982 added a
new Sec. 1926 to Title 28, United 'States Code, authorizing the
Judicial Conference to prescribe from time to time the fees
and costs to be charged and collected in the United States
Claims Court. Upon the recommendation of the Committee
the Conference approved the following fee schedule to be
effective October 1,1982:

    Fees to be Charged for Services Performed by the
    Clerk of the United States Claims Court (except
    that no fees are to be charged fot' services rendered
    on behalf of the United States):

    1. 	 For filing a civil action or proceeding, $60.00,
        plus $1.00 for each additional          plaintiff
        demanding a separate judgment;
    2. 	 For reproducing any record or paper, $.50 per
         page. This fee shall apply to paper copies made
         from either: (a) original documents; or (b)
         microfiche or microfilm reproductions of the
         original records;
    3. 	 For certifying any document or paper, whether
         the certification is made directly on the
         document or by separate instrument, $2.00;
                             77 



   4. 	 For admission of attorneys to practice, $15.00
        each, including a certificate of admission. For
        a duplicate certificate of admission or
        certificate of good standing, $3.00;

   5. 	 For receipt of a monthly listing of court orders
        and opinions, $10.00 per year.

       No other fees for miscellaneous services than those
prescribed by the Judicial Conference of the United States
shall be charged or collected by any clerk of court.
               SPACE UTILIZATION SURVEY

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Administrative Office had conducted a year-long restudy of
the need to retain certain space presently charged to and paid
for by the Judiciary.      The prior survey resulted in an
Administrative Office recommendation for closing facilities in
18 communities. Because either the district court or the
circuit council, or both, recommended that facilities be
retained at Globe, Arizona; Fort Scott, Kansas; Littleton, New
Hampshire; and Miami, Oklahoma, a restudy was deemed
necessary.

       The Committee reported that the district court in
Arizona no longer objected to the release of facilities at Globe
and that the Committee had considered and rejected a legal
point raised by Judge Devine of the District of New Hampshire
that 28 U.S.C. 109 required retention of court facilities at
statutorily designated places of holding court. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference authorized
the release of space at these four locations.


      AUTHORIZATION OF TEMPORARY PERSONNEL
                        FOR JUDGES

       In February 1982 the Director of the Administrative
Office advised judges and other court officers and employees
of a projected deficiency in the appropriation for "Salaries of
Supporting Personnel" and placed severe restrictions on the
employment of personnel in clerk's offices, the probation
service and other component offices of the courts. In large
measure the projected deficiency was due to an increa"ling
demand for temporary law clerks and secretaries by judges and
                              78 




an increase in the number of overlapping appointments which
were costing approximately $2.5 million a year. It was the
view of the Committee that many of the requests for
temporary employment were fully justified, but that the
justification for some requests was either marginal or
inadequate.

       With regard to overlapping appointments of district
judges' secretaries it was the Committee's view that a period
of orientation and continuity of service is essential and an
overlap for a period of two weeks is justified. The turnover of
secretaries is minimal and overlapping appointments would not
be a burden on the appropriation. With regard to overlapping
appointments of law clerks, however, the Committee believes
there is little, if any, justification since most judges have two
or more law clerks and continuity of service, as well as the
indoctrination of newly appointed law clerks, could be provided
by simply staggering the appointments. Those judges who
normally appoint law clerks for a two year term could replace
a law clerk annually. Those judges who appoint law clerks for
a term of only one year could replace one law clerk in July and
the other in September.
       The Conference upon the recommendation of the
Committee amended Item 6 of the Guidelines for the
employment of judges' personal staff, approved by the
Conference in September 1979 (Conf. Rept. p. 77) to read as
follows:

    The Director of the Administrative Office may
    approve overlapping appointments of secretaries
    and law clerks of up to two weeks where the
    turnover of personnel would hinder the continuity of
    staff support for the judges. As a general rule,
    overlapping appointments shall not be authorized
    for judges with two or more secretaries or law
    clerks.

      The Committee recommended and the Conference also
adopted the following procedures:
    The Director of the Administrative Office (subject
    to the recommendation of the chief judge of the
    court) may authorize the one-time appointment of a
    temporary secretary or law clerk for a period not to
    exceed 90 days on the certification of a judge that
                             79



   he or she has a jUdicial emergency. 'The Director
   may authorize the appointment of a temporary
   secretary or law clerk for a period in excess of 90
   days on the certification of a judge that he or she
   has a judicial emergency with the concurrence of
   the chief judge of the involved court, and with the
   approval of the circuit council, provided that any
   appointment in excess of 90 days shall be for no
   longer than an additional 90 days.         Such an
   appointment may be renewed but for not more than
   90 days at a time and by the same process, i.e.,
   certification by the judge that the emergency
   continues and reapproval by both the chief judge of
   the court and the circuit council.
       On behalf of the Committee Judge Hunter submitted
the following statement of policy which was approved by the
Conference and authorized to be transmitted to all courts:

   The appointment of additional secretaries and law
   clerks for circuit and district judges on a temporary
   basis is to be discouraged and authorized only in
   those situations where there is a serious problem
   amounting to a judicial emergency and where the
   additional staff support is essential to the
   operations of the office. Authorization for all
   presently existing temporary appointments shall
   expire on December 31, 1982, unless they sooner
   lapse in the normal course. No such appointment
   may thereafter be renewed except pursuant to the
   procedures and        requirements specified for
   appointments for a period in excess of 90 days.
   Except as provided and justified above, temporary
   secretaries and law clerks should not be authorized
   for judges assigned to the Temporary Emergency
   Court of Appeals, the JUdieial Panel on ~ulti­
   District Litigation, or for those who are serving on
   Committees of the Judieial Conference.

                    COURT REPORTERS
       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved the retention of an additional court
reporter in the Western District of Louisiana on a temporary
basis for one year. The Conference also denied a request for
                              80



permISsIon to convert a temporary court reporter in the
Northern District of California to a second permanent
additional position, but authorized the retention of the
incumbent on a temporary basis until a vacancy occurs at
which time the temporary position will lapse. The Conference
approved a temporary court reporter position in the Southern
District of Texas with the understanding that the request for
an additional permanent court reporter position will be
considered at a later date. A request for an additional court
reporter in the District of New Jersey was denied.


   CHANGES IN AUTHORIZATION AND COMPENSATION 

         OF SUPPORTING CLERICAL STAFF 

        Judge Hunter stated that the Committee would
reconsider a proposal submitted by Judge Walter Cummings to
authorize, on a test basis, higher salaries for personnel in a
clerk's office which operates with fewer personnel.


                COMMrrTEE ON THE BUDGET

      Judge Charles Clark, Chairman of the Committee on
the Budget, submitted the Committee's report.


      APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1984

        The Conference approved the budget estimates for the
fiscal year 1984 prepared by the Director of the
Administrative Office and submitted by the Committee. The
estimates, exclusive of the Supreme Court, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the Court of
International Trade, and the Federal Judicial Center total
$869,670,000, an increase of approximately $77,903,000 over
the amount recommended by the House Appropriations
Committee for the fiscal year 1983, adjusted to renect
proposed supplementals for pay costs and program increases.
Of this amount, $39,654,000 is for mandatory or uncontrollable
increases such as within grade salary adjustments, promotions,
increases in contract rates and charges for equipment,
services, and supplies; and the escalation and charges for space
rental assessed by the General Services Administration. The
proposed increases for program changes which are considered
ttcontrollablett total $38,249,000. The Director was authorized
                               81 




  to amend the budget estimates because of new legislation,
  action taken by the Judicial Conference, or for any other
  reason the Director and the Budget Committee consider
-necessary and appropriate.


       SUPPORTING PERSONNEL FOR SENIOR JUDGES

        Judge Clark advised the Conference that the report of
 the House Appropriations Subcommittee accompanying the
 Judiciary Appropriation Bill for the fiscal year 1983 stated
 that the number of supporting personnel (secretaries and law
 clerks) authorized for senior judges should be related directly
 to workload performed and that "the Judicial Councils should
 not only certify that a senior judge is performing 'substantial
 judicial duties,' but also should determine the number of
 supporting positiom; necessary based on actual workload."
 Accordingly, the judicial councils of the circuits will be asked
 to provide this information.


                JUDICIAL ETmCS COMMfn'U

        Judge Edward A. Tamm, Chairman of the statutory
 Judicial Ethics Committee, presented the report of the
 Committee.


               ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE
        Judge Tamm informed the Conference that the
 Committee had received 1,848 financial disclcsure reports for
 the calendar year 1981, inclUding 901 reports from "judicial
 officers" and 947 reports from "judicial employees". Since
 January the Committee has also received 29 reports required
 to be, filed by nominee~ .0 judgeship positions. All reports
 submitted to the Committee are being reviewed by at least one
 Committee member to determine whether they were "filed in a
 timely manner, are complete and are in p,roper form," as
 required by 28 U.S.C.App. I 306(a).
       Judge Tamm informed the Conference that the
 Committee'S volume of correspondence continues to increase.
 In addition to writing letters to reporting individuals
 concerning errors appearing on the face of the form, the
 Committee is now inqUiring about inconsistencies between
                              82 




current reports and those filed in previous years.          The
Committee also replies to requests for extensions of time to
file, acknowledges receipt of reports filed by judicial nominees
and notifies individuals who have failed to file in a timely
manner. This year the Committee has written a total of 1,200
letters to reporting individuals, many of which continue to
involve minor omissions on the face of the form, such as a
failure to check a "None" box. The Committee believes that
all items on the form should be completed by each reporting
individual.

       The Conference was informed that two part-time
United States magistrates and one employee in the Court of
Claims had not yet filed reports for the calendar year 1981. In
the absence of filing the Committee, acting in accordance with
the procedures previously adopted by the Committee and
reported to the Conference in September 1980 (Conf. Rept. p.
76), will consider a reference to the Attorney General under 28
U.S.C.A. App. 1 304(b)•.


          REPORTING FORM AND INSTRUCTIONS

       Judge Tamm stated that the Committee had again
reviewed the form and instructions for financial disclosure
reporting in the light of recent experience and suggestions
received by the Committee. As a result of this review the
Committee recommended several changes to clarify reporting
requirements. To avoid the recurring problem of the failure of
reporting individuals to indicate whether their reports include
information with respect to the income and assets of their
spouse and dependent children, the Committee decided to
eliminate the need to check a box and instead to include on the
form a statement that the report includes reportable
information for the spouse and dependent children, if any. The
option of indicating by symbol the ownership of assets by
spouses and dependent children, or jointly, has also been
eliminated. The disclosure form has also been revised to
provide a separate place for reporting capital gains.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference, in accordance with Section 303(c) of the Ethics in
Government Act of 1978, approved the revised financial
disclosure reporting form and instructions submitted by the
Committee.
                              83



     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

      Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the
Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct, presented the
Committee's report.


              ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE

       Judge Markey informed the Conference that since its
last report the Committee had received 23 inquiries from
persons subject to the various codes of conduct and had issued
20 advisory responses.      Judge Markey also informed the
Conference that the American Bar Association at its August
meeting had adopted an amendment to Canon 3A(7) of the
Code of Judicial Conduct that would authorize broadcasting,
televising, recording and photographing of judicial proceedings
in courtrooms and areas immediately adjacent thereto, when
approved by a supervising appellate court or other appropriate
authority. The American Bar Association also repealed a
recent resolution which had urged Congress to bring clubs
supported by business within anti-discrimination laws.

          APPLICABILITY OF CODES OF CONDUCT

       In 1978 the Conference resolved that the Code of
Conduct for United States judges be made applicable to the
Director of the Administrative Office, the Director of the
Federal Judicial Center and the Administrative Assistant to
the Chief Justice.      Since that time the Conference has
approved and promulgated specific codes for particular
officers. Incongruities exist in applying a judge's code to those
who are not judges. The Committee therefore determined that
the present code for Circuit Executives is more appropriate to
the activities of the above-named officers.            Upon the
recommendation of the Committee, the Conference resolved
that the Code of Conduct for Circuit Executives, rather than
the Code of Conduct for judges, be l')1ade applicable to the
Director of the Administrative Office, Director of the Federal
Judicial Center, and the Administrative Assistant to the Chief
Justice.
                                84


          MODEL CODES OF CONDUCT FOR VARIOUS 

                  JUDICIAL EMPLOYEES 


          The Committee noted that the provision of the Codes of
   Con duet for elerks and deputy elerks, probation offieers, staff
   attorneys, eireuit exeeutives, and law elerks with respeet to
   fund-raising aetivities is more restrietive than a similar
   provision relating to judges.       The Committee therefore
   reeommended that the Codes of Conduet for elerks, probation
   offieers, staff attorneys, eireuit exeeutives, and law elerks be
   ievised by deleting therefrom the words "should not partieipate
   in fund-raising aetivities for sueh an organization or ageney"
   and substituting therefor the words "he may assist sueh an
-, organization in raising funds and may partieipate in their
   management and investment but should not personally
   partieipate in publie fund-raising aetivities. He may make
   reeommendations to publie and private fund-granting ageneies
   on projeets and programs eoneerning the law, the legal
   profession, and the administration of justiee."

         SENIOR JUDGES SERVING AS ARBITRATORS
        The Chief Justiee was authorized to appoint an ad hoe
 eommittee to explore the prospeets of authorizing senior
 judges to serve as arbitrators.


        COMMlITEE ON INTERClRcurr ASSIGNMENTS

        The written report of the Committee on Intereireuit
 Assignments, submitted by the Chairman, Judge George L.
 Hart, Jr., was reeeived by the Conferenee.

        The report indieated that during the period February 16,
 1982 through August 15, 1982 the Committee reeommended 98
 assignments to be undertaken by 78 judges. Of this number one
 was a retired Supreme Court justiee, 14 were senior eireuit
 judges, one was an aetive eireuit judge, 26 were senior eireuit
 judges, 29 were aetive distriet judges, two were aetive judges
 of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, three were aetive
 judges of the Court of Claims, two were aetive judges of the
 Court of International Trade, and one was an aetive judge of a
 bankruptey eourt.
                               85 




       Forty-seven judges undertook 50 assignments to the
courts of appeals and 46 judges undertook 47 assignments to
district courts. In addition one active bankruptcy judge was
assigned to a bankruptcy court outside his circuit.


            COMMrn EE ON RULES OF PRACTICE 

                   AND PROCEDURE 


    Judge Edward T. Gignoux, Chairman of the Committee
on Rules of Practice and Procedure, presented the
Committee's report.


                     BANKRUPTCY RULES

       The Conference upon the recommendation of the
Committee approved a new set of bankruptcy rules to govern
procedure in bankruptcy cases under the new Bankruptcy Code,
Title 11, United States Code, and authorized transmission to
the Supreme Court for its consideration with a
recommendation that the new rules be approved by the Court
and transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law.          The
Conference also authorized the Committee to transmit
directly to the Supreme Court any technical amendments to
the rules that may be required by legislation enacted by
Congress in response to the Northern Pipeline decision.
Finally, the Conference approved the official forms submitted
by the Committee which are to go into effect simultaneously
with the bankruptcy rules and authorized transmission of these
forms to the Supreme Court for its information. Hereafter
amendments to the forms will be prescribed by the Judicial
Conference pursuant to Rule 9009 of the proposed new
bankruptcy rules.

                       CRIMIN AL RULES
        Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved proposed amendments to Rules 6(e) and
(g), Il(a), 12.2(b), (c) and (d), 16(a), 23(b), 32(a), (c) and (d),
35(b), and 55; proposed new Rules 11 (h), 12(0 and I2.2(e); and
the abrogation of Rule 58, Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure, including all official forms previously adopted
under Rule 58, and authorized their transmission to the
Supreme Court for its consideration with a recommendation
                              86 




that they be approved by the Court and transmitted to the
Congress pursuant to law.


                         CIVIL RULES

       The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed
amendments to Rules 6(b), 7(b), 11, 16, 26(a) and (b), 52(a),
53(a), (b) and (c), and 67 of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure; new Rules 26(g), 53(f), and 72 through 76; and new
Official Forms 33 and 34 and recommended their submission to
the    Supreme     Court    for   its   consideration    with a
recommendation that they be approved by the Court and
transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law. Judge Gignoux
explained that these proposals are designed to reduce discovery
abuse and the abuse of process, to reform the procedures for
the conduct of pretrial conferences and for the scheduling and
management of litigation by judges, and to conform the rules
to the jurisdictional provisions of the Federal 1\1agistrates Act
of 1979.

       The Conference reviewed the proposed language of Rule
16(b) providing that a United States magistrate may perform
duties under the rule "only when specifically authorized by
district court rule" and voted to amend the language to read
IIwhen authorized by district court rule."          The word
"specifically" which appeared at a subsequent place in the rule
was also deleted and the Committee was authorized to make
necessary changes in the Advisory Committee Note. As thus
amended, the recommendations of the Committee were
approved by the Conference.


                     APPELLATE RULES

       Judge Gignoux informed the Conference that the Chief
Justice had appointed Judge Pierce Lively of the Sixth Circuit
to succeed Judge Robert A. Ainsworth, Jr., who died last
December, as Chairman of the Advisory Committee on
Appellate Rules. Judge Lively recently met with the reporter
to the Committee to schedule future Committee work.


        STATEMENT OF OPERATING PROCEDURES

    Judge Gignoux also informed the Conference that the
Committee had approved a Statement of Operating Procedures
                             87 




and would make arrangements to have the statement published
in the American Bar Association Journal. A copy of the
statement was distributed to the members of the Conference
for their information.


      COMMrrTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                PROBATION SYSTEM

     Jtldge Gerald B. Tjofiat, Chairman of the Committee on
the Administration of the Probation System, presented the
Committee's report.

                 SENTENCING INSTITUTES

        The Conference upon the recommendation of the
Committee authorized the convening of a Joint Institute on
Sentencing for the judges of the Fourth and Eleventh Circuits
to be held at a location near the Federal Correctional
Institution at Butner, North Carolina, April 18-20, 1983. A
final agenda, modeled after those of recent Sentencing
Institutes, will be presented to the Conference for its
consideration at its next session.

                   SENTENCING REFORM

       Judge Tjofiat reviewed the efforts made in the Congress
during the last few years to reform sentencing laws through
the creation of a Commission on Sentencing, appellate review
of sentences, and the creation of comprehensive statutory
sentencing procedures. Judge Tjofiat stated that it was the
unanimous view of the Committee that, if it be the will of
Congress to adopt significant sentencing revision, legislation
should be favored that will create simple and inexpensive
sentencing procedures that will insure finality of sentence
while giving full recognition to the due process rights of
convicted defendants.         Accordingly, the Committee
recommended that the Conference continue to authorize the
Committee to monitor the progress of sentencing reform
proposals and also communicate past Conference positions to
the Congress. This recommendation was approved by the
Conference.
                              88 




       The Committee was further authorized to draft
legislative alternatives to those already proposed by the
Congress for further consideration by the Conference.
Included among the alternatives would be the concepts that (1)
sentences be imposed under guidelines established by a
sentencing committee of the Judicial Conference, (2) sentence
review in a court of appeals in conjunction with the review of
conviction, and (3) parole decisions based solely on post
conviction occurrences.


      COMMrrTEE ON THE ADMINISTRA110N OF' THE
               BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

       Judge Robert E. DeMascio, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System, presented the
Committee's report.

    SURVEY OF THE NEED FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

       Judge DeMascio informed the Conference that pursuant
to Sec. 406 of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 the Director
of the Administrative Office had submitted to the Committee
a comprehensive report recommending the creation of 299
bankruptcy judgeship positions by April I, 1984, their regular
places of office and additional places of holding court. The
Committee reviewed the recommendations of the Director and
the recommendations of the judicial councils of the circuits for
the creation of 321 bankruptcy judgeships and recommended to
the Conference the creation of 300 bankruptcy judgeships.

       After full discussion, it was the sense of the Conference
that approximately 300 Article I bankruptcy judges would be
required in 1984 if the existing bankruptcy court structure is
not revised. The Executive Committee of the Conference,
upon reconsideration of further recommendations from the
Bankruptcy Committee, was authorized to review the
variances in recommendations in the light of the discussions in
the Conference and, in accordance with the statute, to report
its detailed recommendations to the Congress in January 1983
as the recommendations of the Conference.
       ARRANGEMENTS FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

       The Conference upon the recommendation of the
Committee converted seven part-time bankruptcy judge
positions to full-time status and changed the regular place of
                                89 




office of one bankruptcy judge. This action, shown below, is to
be effective when appropriated funds are available.
                         Second Circuit

Eastern District of New York:

    (1) 	 Transferred the headquarters of one of the full-time
           bankruptcy judges at Westbury from Westbury to
           Hauppauge.

Vermont:

    (I) 	 Changed the bankruptcy judge pa;ition at Rutland
          from part-time to full-time status at the currently
          authorized statutory salary for a full-time
          bankruptcy judge.

                          Third Circuit

Delaware:

    (I) 	 Changed the bankruptcy judge pa;ition at Wilmington
          from part-time to full-time status at the currently
          authorized statutory salary for a full-time
          bankruptcy judge.

                         Fourth Circuit

Western District of Virginia:

    (I) 	 Changed     the bankruptcy judge pa;ition at
           Harrisonburg from part-time to full-time status at
           the currently authorized statutory salary for a full­
           time bankruptcy judge.
                          Fifth Circuit

Eastern District of Texas:

    U) 	 Changed the bankruptcy judge position at Tyler from
         part-time to full-time status at the currently
         authorized statutory salary for a full-time
         bankruptcy judge.
                              90



Northern District of Texas:

    (I) 	 Changed the bankruptcy judge position at Lubbock
         from part-time to full-time status at the currently
         authorized statutory salary for a full-time
         bankruptcy judge.

                       Seventh Circuit

Western District of Wisconsin:

    (1) 	 Changed the bankruptcy judge position at Eau Claire
         from part-time to full-time status at the currently
         authorized statutory salary for a full-time
         bankruptcy judge.

                        Tenth Circuit

New Mexico:

    (J) 	 Changed   the bankruptcy judge position at
         Albuquerque from part-time to full-time status at
         the currently authorized statutory salary for a full­
         time bankruptcy judge.


     GUIDELINES FOR CHAPTER 13 ADMINISTRATION

       Judge DeMas~io reported that the Committee had been
concerned over the excessive accummulation of funds by some
Chapter xm trustees in cases administered under the old
Bankruptcy Act which are to be used to pay the compensation
and expenses of trustees. These funds may not be used to pay
the costs of administering cases under the new Bankruptcy
Code. It was the view of the Committee that these accounts
should be liquidated. Because of the impracticality of locating
the debtors in each case from which the excess deductions
were made the Committee proposed the following guideline
which was approved by the Conference:

    It  is the sense of the Conference that the
    bankruptcy courts shall direct the standing trustees
    for Chapter xm cases to deposit in the bankruptcy
    court registry all funds attributable to Bankruptcy
    Act cases held for compensation and expense
    reimbursement over and above the actual allowable
                              91



    compensation and expenses for such cases for the
    current accounting year and that these funds
    ultimately be transferred to the United States
    Treasury where they will be subject to the claims of
    the owners.

       Judge DeMascio stated that the Committee would give
further consideration to a proposal to restrict the acquisition
of computer hardware by trustees in Chapter 13 cases.


                JURISDICTIONAL CONFLICTS

        Judge DeMascio submitted to the Conference a
proposed local rule for adoption by the various district courts
which is designed to permit a continuation of the processing of
bankruptcy cases in the event the Congress fails to enact
legislation to remedy defects in the jurisdictional provisions of
the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 by October 4, 1982, the
date mentioned in the Northern Pipeline case, and the Supreme
Court does not extend the date. After a full discussion in
which the Chief Justice did not participate, the Conference
adopted the following:

    Resolved, that the Conference request the Director
    to provide each circuit with a proposed rule to take
    effect October 5, 1982 in the absence of
    congressional actio 1 (r extension of the stay, which
    rule will permit the bankruptcy system to continue
    without disruption in reliance upon jurisdictional
    grants remaining in the law as limited by Northern
    PipeJine Construction Co. v. Marathon Pipe Line
    Co. et a1.


       BANKRUPTCY APPEALS IN DISTRICT COURTS

       Judge De'1ascio pointed out that since October 1970 the
Administrative Office, under Conference direction, has
informed the Judicial Councils of the Circuits of delinquencies
in the handling of bankruptcy appeals by district courts by
providing regular computer printouts.         The Committee
recommended that the reporting of this information in its
present form be discontinued but that district judges report
bankruptcy appeals statistically as cases for the purpose of
their reports of cases under advisement and to show
                             92 



bankruptcy appeals separately in such manner that they can be
readily identified This recommendation was approved by the
Conference.


           COMMnTEEONTHEAD~AnON
         OF THE FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

      The report of the Committee on the Administration of
the Federal Magistrates System was presented by the
Chairman, Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jr.


              JURISDICTION OF MAGISTRATES

       Judge Skopil advised the Conference that bills have
recently been introduced in the Congress either to expand or to
contract the jurisdiction of the United States magistrates.
Some proposals would grant magistrates "originallt jurisdiction
over selected categories of civil cases and other proposals
would restrict or eliminate the authority of magistrates to
conduct certain types of proceedings.
       In its report to Congress in December 1981 the
Conference expressed its view that the Federal Magistrates
System is appropriate as presently constituted, concluding {)
that there should be no further expansion in magistrates
jurisdiction at this time and (2) that there should be no
retrenchment in the statutory grants authorized by the Federal
Magistrates Act as amended in 1976 and 1979.

       Anticipating that additional suggestions to expand or
contract the jurisdiction of magistrates will continue to recur
in the Congress from time to time, the Committee proposed
the following resolution which was approved by the
Conference:

   Resolved, that it continues to be the position of the
   Judicial Conference of the United States that the
   Federal Magistrates System should continue to be
   an integral part of the district courts, that the
   jurisdiction of magistrates should remain "open" and
   should neither be expanded to include "originallt
   jurisdiction in special categories of cases, nor
   restricted in special types of cases or proceedings.
   It is, furthermore, the poUcy of the Judicial
                              93 




     Conference to encourage the full and effective
     utilization of United States magistrates by the
     district courts in civil and criminal cases under
     existing statutory authority and to oppose
     restrictions on the utilization of magistrates by the
   . district eourts.


                QU ALIFICATION STANDARDS 

               AND SELECTION PROCEDURES 


       The Federal Magistrates Act of 1979 amended 28 U.S.C.
63Hb) to require that magistrates at the time of their
appointment have at least five years' membership in the bar of
the particular state in which the magistrate is to serve.
Reeently an experienced attorney was found to be disqualified
from appointment as a maglstrate solely because he had not
been a member of the pertinent state bar for five years,
although he was currently a member in good standing of that
bar and had served with the Department of Justice and been a
member of the bar of another state for 16 years.

       On August 6, 1982 the President signed Public Law 97­
230 amending section 631 (b) to permit membership in the bar
of any state to satisfy the five-year requirement. The
requirement for membership in the particular bar of the state
in which the magistrate is to serve was unchanged by the
amendment.

      Prior to the meeting of the Conference. the Executive
Committee implemented the new statute by approving a
conforming amendment to seetion 1.01 of the Regulations of
the Judicial Conference of the United States Establishing
Standards and Proeedures for the Appointment of United
States Magistrates. At the request of Judge Skopil, the
Conference ratified the action of its Executive Committee.

      The amended regulation provides in part as follows:

         Sec. 1.01 Minimum Qulilifications

         To be qualified for appointment as a United
         States magistrate, nominees must meet the
         following standards:
                              94



         (a) They must be members in good standing of
         the bar of the highest court of the state in
         which the person selected is to serve ...

         (b) They must have been engaged in the active
         practice of law for a period of at least five
         years •..

           CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

        After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recom mendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts and the judicial councils of the
circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
magistrate positions.      Unless otherwise indicated, these
changes are to become effective when appropriated funds are
available. The salaries of full-time magistrate positions are to
be determined in accordance with the salary plan previously
adopted by the Conference.
                       FIRST CIRCUIT

Maine:

    (I) 	 Continued  the part-time magistrate position at
         Bangor for an additional four year term at the
         currently authorized salary of $2,700 per annum.
Massachuset ts:

    (l) 	 Converted   the part-time magistrate position at
         Springfield to a full-time magistrate position.
New 	Hampshire:

    (1) 	 Converted the combination clerk of court-magistrate
         position at    Concord to a full-time       magistrate
         position.
                              95



                        SECOND CIRCUIT

New York, Eastern:

   (1) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate position at
         Patchogue for an additional four year term at the
         currently authorized salary of $4,500 per annum.


New York, Southern:

   (l) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate position at
         Poughkeepsie for an additional four year term at the
         currently authorized salary of $10,000 per annum.

                         THIRD CIRCUIT

Pennsylvania, Eastern:

   (1) 	 Continued   the full-time magistrate position at
         Philadelphia which is due to expire on December 10,
         1982 for an additional eight year term.
                            \
   (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
         Reading for an additional four year term.
   (3) 	 Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
         position at Reading from $4,500 per annum to $3,600
         per annum.

    (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Allentown for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $3,600 per annum.

Pennsylvania, Middle:
    (I) 	 Continued  the part-time magistrate position at
         Williamsport for an additional four year term at the
         currently authorized salary of $3,600 per annum.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Stroudsburg for an additional four year term.
    (3) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Stroudsburg from $1,800 per annum to
          $2,700 per annum.
                              96




                      FOURTH CIRCUIT
North Carolina, Western:

    (I) 	 Converted the combination deputy clerk-magistrate
         position at Charlotte to a part-time magistrate
         position at a salary of $29,250 per annum.

    (2) 	 Authorized the full-time magistrate at Asheville to
          exercise jurisdiction in the adjoining Eastern District
          of Tennessee.
    (3) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
          Bryson City.

West Virginia, Northern:

    (1) 	 Continued  the part-time magistrate position at
         Martinsburg for an additional four year term at the
         currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.

West Virginia, Southern:

    (I) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
         Logan upon the expiration of the current term of
         office of the incumbent.

                       FIFTH CIRCUIT

Louisiana, Western:
    (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate at Alexandria for
         an additional four year term.

    (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Alexandria from $26,750 per annum to
          $29,250 per annum.
    (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Lake
          Charles for an additional four year term.
    (4) 	 Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Lake Charles from $~6,750 to $17,900 per
          annum.
                              97 




    (5) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate position at
          Monroe for an additional four year term.

    (6) 	 Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Monroe from $3,600 per annum to $1,800
          per annum.

    (7) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
          Leesville.

Mississippi, Northern:

    0) 	 Continued    the full-time magistrate position at
          Greenville for an additional eight year term.
!v1ississippi, Southern:

    0) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Biloxi
          (or Gulfport) for an additional eight year term.

    (2) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at
          Jackson for an additional eight year term.

    (3) 	 Authorized the appointment of an additional full­
          time magistrate at Biloxi (or Gulfport or Jackson).
Texas, Northern:

    0) 	 Continued the authority for the bankruptcy judge at
         Lubbock to perform the duties of a magistrate for an
         additional four year period.

    (2) 	 Increased the compensation of the incumbent
          bankruptcy judge-magistrate at Lubbock from
          $26,750 per annum to $29,250 per annum for the
          performance of magistrate duties.
     (3) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Fort
           Worth for an additional eight year term.
     (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
           Amarillo for an additional four vear term at the
           currently authorized salary of $4,500 per annum.
     (5) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at San
           An~elo for' an additional four year term at the
           currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.
                             98 




Texas, Western:

    (l) 	 Continued the part~time magistrate position at Waco
         for an additional four year term.

    (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Waco from $26,750 per annum to $29,250
          per annum.

    (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Pecos
          for an additional four year term at the currently
          authorized salary of $26,750 per annum.

    (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Eagle
          Pass for an additional four year term.

    (5) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Eagle Pass from $17,900 per annum to
          $20,300 per annum.

    (6) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Midland (or Odessa) for an additional four year term.

    (7) 	 Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Midland (or Odessa) from $15,500 per
          annum to $8,200 per annum, effective October 1,
          1982.

    (8) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Big
          Bend National Park for an additional four year term
          at the currently authorized salary of $11,800 per
          annum.

                       SIXTH CIRCUIT

Kentucky, Western:

    (I) 	 Continued  the part-time magistrate position at
         Hopkinsville for an additional four year term.
    (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Hopkinsville from $26,750 per annum to
          $29,250 per annum.

    (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Bowling Green for an additional four year term.
                               99 





    (4) 	   Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
            position at Bowling Green from $4,500 per annum to
            $3,600 per annum.

   (5) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
         Owensboro for an additional four year term at the
         currently authorized salary of $3,600 per annum.
   (6) 	 Continued the authority for the deputy clerk at
         Louisville to perform the duties of a magistrate for
         an additional four-year term without additional
         compensation.
Michigan, Eastern:

    (1) 	   Authorized a sixth full-time magistrate position at
            Detroit.

    (2) 	 Increased the compensation of the bankruptcy judge
          at Bay City for the performance of magistrate duties
          from $26,750 per annum to $29,250 per annum.
    (3) 	 Authorized the appointment of a part-time
          magistrate at Bay City at a salary of $29,250 per
          annum in lieu of the combination bankruptcy judge­
          magistrate position at that location at such time as
          the court deems appropriate.

Ohio, Southern:

    (1) 	 Continued     the part-time magistrate position at
            Portsmouth for an additional four year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Steubenville for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.
    (3) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
          Zanesville upon the expiration of the current term of
          office of the incumbent.
                                 100



Tennessee, Eastern:

     (}) 	 Established a new part-ti me magistrate position at
           Gatlinburg (or Sevierville) at a salary of $6,400 per
           annum.

     (2) 	   Authorized the part-time magistrate at Gatlinburg
             (or Sevierville) to serve in the adjoining Western
             District of North Carolina.

    (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Greeneville for an additional four year term.

    (4) 	 Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Greeneville from $4,500 per annum to
          $2,700 per annum.

    (5) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
          Winchester upon the expiration of the current term
          of the incumbent.

                         SEVEN1'H CIRCUIT

Illinois, Central:

    (I) 	 Increased       the aggregate compensation of the
             combination clerk-magistrate position at Peoria to
             that of a clerk of a large nistrict court.

Illinois, Southern:

    (I) 	 Continued      the full-time mAgistrate position at
             Benton for an additional eight year term of office.

Wisconsin, Eastern:
    (l) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Green
             Bay for an additional four year term at the currently
             authorized salary of $900 per annum.

    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Appleton for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.
                              101



                        EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Arkansas, Eastern:

    (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at West
            Memphis for an additional four year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $1,800 per annum.

Arkansas, Western:

    (I) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Hot
            Springs for an additional four year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $6,400 per annum.

    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Harrison for an additional four year term.

    (3) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Harrison from $3,600 per annum to
          $29,250 per annum from October 1, 1982 to January
          31, 1983 (with the salary to revert to the $3,600 level
          on February 1, 1983).

    (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate . ,osition at EI
          Dorado for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $2,700 per annum.

Iowa, Northern:

    (1) 	 Continued     the part-time magistrate position at
            Dubuque for an additional four year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.

Iowa, Southern:

    (1) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Des
            Moines for an additional eight year term.
Minnesota:

    (1) 	 Continued the authority for the bankruptcy judge at
            Duluth to perform the duties of a magistrate for an
            additional four year period.
                             102 




    (2) 	 Increased the compensation paid to the bankruptcy
          judge at Duluth for the performance of magistrate
          duties from $26,750 per annum to $29,250 per annum.

South Dakota:

    (1) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate position at
          Aberdeen for an additional four vear term at the
          currently authorized salary of $2,70'0 per annum.

                        NINTH CIRCUIT

Alaska:

    (1) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate position at
          Juneau for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.

    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Ketchikan for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.

California, Northern:

    (I) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate position at
          Oakland for an additional four year term.
    (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Oakland from $26,750 per annum to
          $29,250 per annum.

    (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at San
          Jose for an additional four year term at the currently
          authorized salary of $15,500 per annum.

    (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Eureka for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.

Calif ornia, Eastern:
    (}) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at
          Yosemite National Park for an additional eight year
          term.
                             103 




    (2) 	 Increased the salary of the full-time magistrate
         position at Yosemite National Park from $35,894 per
         annum to $38,025 per annum.

    (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Alturas for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.

    (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Bakersfield for an additional four year term at the
          currently authoriZed salary of $8,200 per annum.
    (5) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Bishop for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $6,400 per annum.

    (6) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Merced for an additional four vear term at the
          currently authorized salary of $4,500 per annum.
    (7) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks for an
          additional four year term at the currently authorized
          salary of $15,500 per annum.

    (8) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Yreka
          for an additional four year term.
    (9) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Yreka from $900 to $2,700 per annum.

California, Central:

    (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at San
          Bernardino for an additional four year term.

    (2) 	 Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at San Bernardino from $20,300 to $15,500
          per annum.

    (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Long
          Beach for an additional four year term.
    (4) 	 Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Long Beach from $13,600 per annum to
          $10,000 per annum.
                             104 





   (5)    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Twentynine Palms for an additional four year term at
          the currently authorized salary of $4,500 per annum.

    (6)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Lancaster for an additional four year term.

    (7)   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Lancaster from $3,600 per annum to
          $8,200 per annum.

Hawaii:

    (I)   Continued the fUll-time magistrate position at
          Honolulu for an additional eight year term.

    (2)   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Honolulu from $8,200 per annum to
          $15,500 per annum.

    (3)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Hilo
          for an additional four year term at the currently
          authorized salary of $1,800 per annum.

    (4)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Lihue
          for an additional four year term at the currently
          authorized salary of $900 per annum.
    (5)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Wailuku for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.
Idaho:

    (I)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Twin
          Falls for an additional four vear term at the
          currently authorized salarv of $1,800 per annum.

Washington, Eastern:

    0) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Yakima for an additional fOllr year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $15,500 per annum.
                            105



Washington, Western:

   (}) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
         Olympic National Park for an additional four year
         term.
   (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
         position at Olympic National Park from $10,000 per
         annum to $13,600 per annum.

   (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
         Bellingham for an additional four year term.

    (4) 	 Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Bellingham from $6,400 per annum to
          $3,600 per annum.

    (5) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Vancouver for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $3,600 per annum.

                       TENTH CIRCUIT
Oklahoma, Northern:

    (1) 	 Continued  the part-time magistrate position at
         I\Hami for an additional four year term at the
         currently authorized salary of $4,500 per annum.
Oklahoma, Eastern:
    (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Hugo
         for an additional four year term at the currently
         authorized salary of $1,800 per annum.

Oklahoma, Western:

    (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
         Lawton for an additional four year term.

    (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Lawton from $26,750 per annum to
          $29,250 per annum.
                              106 




Utah:

    (1) 	   Authorized the clerk of court at Salt Lake City to
            perform the duties of a part-time magistrate for an
            additional four year term without additional
            compensation.

    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistate position at Cedar
          City for an additional four year term.

    (3) 	 Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Cedar City from $4,500 per annum to
          $1,800 per annum.

    (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Monticello (or Moab) for an additional four year
          term.
    (5) 	 Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Monticello (or Moab) from $2,700 per
          annum to $1,800 per annum upon the expiration of
          the current term of the incumbent.
    (6) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Vernal (or Roosevelt) for an additional four year
          term.

    (7) 	   Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
            position at Vernal (or Roosevelt) from $2,700 per
            annum to $1,800 per annum upon the expiration of
            the current term of the incumbent.
                      ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Florida, Northern:
    (1) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
            Pensacola for an additional eight year term.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Tallahassee for an additional four year term.
    (3) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Tallahassee from $17,900 per annum to
          $20,300 per annum.
                             107 




    (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Panama City for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $10,000 per annum.

Florida, Southern:
    (I) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Miami
         which is due to expire on September II, 1983 for an
         additional eight year term.

    (2) 	 Authorized a fifth full-time magistrate position to
          serve at I\fiami.

    (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Fort
          Pierce for an additional four year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $2,700 per annum.


             COMMrrTEE TO IMPLEMENT THE 

                CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT 


     Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the Committee
to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented the
Committee's report.


              APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

       Judge !\'lacBride submitted to the Conference a report
on appointments and payments under the Criminal Justice Act
for the six-month period ending March 31, 1982. The report
indicated that Congress had appropriated $26,500,000 for
"defender services" during the fiscal year and that a surplus of
$2,000,000 had been carried forward into the fiscal year 1982.
Projected obligations for the year are $30,670,000.           A
supplemental appropriation in the amount of $2,170,000 has
been approved.
      During the first half of the fiscal year 1982 there were
19,400 persons represented under the Criminal Justice Act
compared to 21,200 represented in the first half of the fiscal
year 1981, a decrease of 8.5 percent. Of this number 10,805 or
56 percent were represented by Federal Public and Community
Defender Organizations.
                                      108 




                     BUDGET REqUEST'S -­ 

                  FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDER~                          


       The Criminal .Tustice Act, as amended, requires each
Federal Public Defender Organization, established pursuant to
18 U.S.C. 3006A(h)(2){A), to submit a proposed budget to be
approved by the Judicial Conference in accordance with 28
U.S.C. 605. The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Com mittee, approved budget requests for the fiscal year 1984
for Federal Public Defender Organizations as follows:

   Arizona. • • . • • • . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . .•      $   812,757
   California, Northern. . . • . . • . • • . • . . ••           $   827,304
   Californ ia, Eastern. . • • • • . . • . • • . . . ••         $   594,337
   California, Central. • . • • • • • • • . • • . • ••          $ 1,617,667
   Colorado. • . • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • . • . • •.       $       335,820
   Connecticut. . • • • • . . • . • . • . • . • . . • ..        $       310,539
   Florida, Northern. . . . • . . . . . • . . • . • .•          $       215,380
   Florida, Middle. • • • . • • • • . . • • • • . • • .•        $       519,205
   Florida, Southern • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • .•         $       748,868
   Georgia, Southern. • • • • . • . • • • • . • • • ••          $       270,826
   Hawaii. • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • . • • .•     $       261,512
   Illinois, Central &. Southern. • . • . . • • • •.            $       168,677
   Kansas. • . . • • • • • • • . . • • • . . . • . • • • .•     $       300,404
   Kentucky, Eastern ••• • . • • . . • . • • . • .•             $       278,242
   Louisiana, Eastern • • • . . . . • . • . . • • • .•          $       307,585
   ,\1 aryland • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • •.   $       626,591
   1\1 assachusetts ••••••••••••••.•..•.                        $       288,142
   1\1 innesota ••••.. • • • . • • . • • • . . • • . ••         $       194,371
   Missouri, Western. • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • .•          $       487,567
   Nevada. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..       $       351,958
   New Jersey • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . ••        $       643,390
   New Mexico. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • ••         $       273,543
   Ohio, Northern. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . .•         $       284,590
   Pennsylvania, Western •••••••.••••••                         $       294,899
   Puerto Rico. • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • ••        $       321,765
   South Carolina. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••         $       287,639
   Tennessee, Middle ••••••••••.••.•••                          $       238,983
   Tennessee, Western ••••••••••••••••                          $       182,103
   Texas, Southern • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••         $       593,767
   Texas, \V estern. . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••       $       586,968
   Virgin Islands. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••       $       399,442
   Washington, Western. • • • • • • • • • . • • • ••            $       383,529
   West Virginia, Southern. • • • • • • • • • • • ••            $       159,976

                                 TOTAL                          $ 14,268,346
                                109 




        Judge MacBride stated that the Federal Public Defender
offices in the Districts of Connecticut and Marvland had
requested supplemental funding for the fiscal year' 1983 for
increases in personnel staffing and resulting expenses. It was
the view of the Committee, however, that in any district court
ir1 which the average cost per case for representation provided
by private attorneys is substantially less than the cost per case
for representation provided by the Federal defender, and there
is no indication that the court is experiencing difficulty in
obtaining qualified private attorneys to appoint under the
Criminal Justice Act, increases in the personnel staff of the
Federal defender should not, at the present time, be
authorized.


       GRANT REQUESTS - COI\·11\WNITY DEFENDER
                  ORGANIZATIONS

       The Conference approved sustaining grants for the
fiscal year 1984 for six of the seven Com munity Defender
Organizations as follows:

    Federal Defenders of
     San Diego, Inc
     San Diego, Calif••...•••.•••••.•...• $1,118,730

    Federal Defender Program,
     Inc., Atlanta Georgia .•.•••......••.. $ 375,025

    Federal Defender Program,
    Inc., Chicag'o, Illinois •••..•••....•••• $ 628,554

    Federal Defender Division,
     Legal Aid and Defender
     Association of Detroit,
     l\1ichigan•.••••••••••••••••••••••• $ 708,577

    Federal Defender
    Services Unit,
     Legal Aid Society,
     New York, New York •••••....••••••• $1,537,102

    Defender Association of
    Philadelphia,
    Philadelphia, Pa. • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • •• $ 517,464

    TOTAL                                              $4,880,452
                             110 





      The Conference upon the recommendation of the
Committee deferred ('onsideration of the funding level for the
Community Defender Organization in the District of Oregon
due to the uncertainty of the continuation of the Eugene
branch office of that or!;anization and the cost savings which
would be associated with its disestablishment. For the same
reason the Conference also, on recommendation of the
Committee, denied supplemental funding for the fiscal year
1983.

     FUNDING FOR THE FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDER 

        IN THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA 


        Judge MacBride informed the Conference that the
Attorney General of the United States had recently submitted
a request to the Congress for funds to increase the staff of the
United States Attorney's Office in the Southern District of
Florida. In response to the Vice President's Task Force on
Crime in Southern Florida several law enforcement agencies
increased their staffs substantially in the past year. The
Administrative Office has estimated that the augmentation of
the United States Attorney's Office to the degree requested by
the Attorney General would result in the filing of an additional
800 cases annually in the Southern District of Florida that
would require the appointment of counsel under the Criminal
.Justice Act.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference thereupon approved contingent budget authority in
the amount of $500,465 for the Federal Public Defender office
in the Southern District of Florida for the fiscal year 1984. If
needed, these funds would be used to establish branch offices
in Fort Lauderdale and West Palm Beach and augment the staff
of the Federal Public Defender by the addition of seven
assistant public defenders, two investigators, one paralegal
specialist and five secretarial or clerical supporting
personnel. The Conference directed that these additional
funds not be used until there has been a significant increase in
the caseload and workload in the district to a level justifying
the increased resources and that any additional attorney
positions be filled by the Public Defender only with the
approval of the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.
                              111



                          GUIDELINES

        Judge l\'lacBride informed the Conference that a number
of judicial- officers were issuing orders nunc pro tunc ratifying
or giving retroactive authorization for investigative, expert, or
other services under subsection (e) of the Criminal Justice Act
when the amount of payment for services exceeded $150 and
prior authorization had not been secured. The Act provides
that the total cost of services obtained without prior
authorization may not exceed $150 plus expenses reasonably
incurred. While the Committee was sympathetic with the
desire to achieve flexibility in the administration of the Act, it
was of the opinion that the existing language of Subsecton
(e)(2) of the Act cannot be read to authorize any payment of
compensation in excess of $150 in the absence of actual prior
authori7.ation from the court.        It was pointed out that
Paragraph 3.02B of the Guidelines for the Administration of
the Criminal Justice Act does not sufficently express the
statutory prohibition against payments in excess of $150 in
situtations in which prior authorization for services was not
actually obtained.         Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference amended the Guideline to read as
follows:

      3.02B. Subsection (e)(2) of the Act prohibits any
      payment of compensation in excess of $150 for
      investigative, expert, or other services unless
      actual prior authorization from the court for such
      services is obtained. Nothing in the Act can be
      construed to authorize a waiver of this limitation,
      nor to authorize the issuance of an order ratifying
      or retroactively authorizing the obtaining of such
      services where the cost exceeds $150.

       Judge MacBride stated that the Committee will
consider proposing an amendment to the Criminal Justice Act
to deal with this problem.

           COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION 

                 OF THE CRIMINAL LAW 


      .Judge Alexander Harvey, II, Chairman of the
Committee on the Administration of the Criminal Law,
presented the Committee's report.
                              112




                  INTERLOCUTORY APPEALS

      The Committee submitted a draft bill to amend Sec.
1291 of Title 28, United States Code, to withdraw jurisdiction
from the courts of appeals to consider appeals, prior to final
judgment, from the denial of motions to dismiss indictments.
The Conference after full discussion referred the proposal back
to the Committee for fUrther study.

            SEALING OF RECORDS UNDER THE 

               YOUTH CORRECTIONS ACT 


       The Criminal Code, 18 U.S.C. 5021, provines for the
setting aside of the conviction of a youth offender who has
been unconditionally discharged from probation or from
incarceration prior to the expiration of the prescribed term
and for the issuance of a certificate to that effect. The
Committee pointed out that since ]978 there has been a
growing trend in the decisional law to read into the Youth
Corrections Act an intention to seal the criminal record when
a conviction has been set aside under the statute. In addition,
at least one court has ruled that a youth whose conviction has
been set aside under the Act may 'responn in the negative to
any question regarding his conviction. To implement the views
of the courts who have thus interpreted the Youth Corrections
Act the Committee submitted a proposed model order with the
recommendation that the Conference approve this order for
the optional use of district courts in accordance with the
decisional law of their resDective circuits.

       After   full discussion the Conference voted to approve
that portion   of the model order providing for the sealing' of
records, but   disapproved the provision permitting a youth to
deny that he   was ever convicted.

        AMENDMENT 1'0 THE SMUGGLING STATUTE
       The Committee submitted to the Conference a proposed
amendment to 18 U.S.C. 545, relating to smuggling goods into
the United States. The proposed amendment is in response to
the case of United States v. Lespier, 601 F.2d 22 (lst Cir.
1979), which overturned a conviction involving the interception
of a vessel within the territorial waters of the United States
                             113



which was carrying cargo for which no invoice existed. The
court of appeals held that the offense of smuggling is not
committed until the merchandise is actually landed on shore.
The proposed amendment to J 8 U.S.C. 545 would make it
unlawful to "transport with intent" to smuggle merchAndise
irtto the United States.          The Conference upon the
recommendation of the Committee approved the draft biB and
authorized its transmission to the Congress.


       COMMITMENT OF MENTALLY INCOMPETENT
                   OFFENDERS

       The Conference had previously recommended legislation
providing that the standard of proof for a finding of
"dangerousness" at the time of a commitment hearing
following the acquittal of a defendant on grounds of insanity
should be a "preponderance of the evidence."               A
recommendation of the Committee that the proposal be
changed to require a "clear and convincing" standard of proof
in commitment hearings was disapproved by the Conference.


         COMMITTEE ON THE OPERAnON OF THE 

                   JURY SYSTEM 


      Judge T. Emmet Clarie, Chairman of the Committee on
the Operation of the Jury System, presented the report of the
Committee.


        JUDGES' MANUAl, FOR THE MANAGEMENT 

          OF COMPLEX CRIMINAL JURY CASES 


       Judge Clarie submitted to the Conference a Manual on
Complex Criminal Jury Cases which had been prepared by a
Subcommittee consisting of members of the Jury Committee
and the Committee on the Administration of the Criminal
Law. The Manual is intended as a practical guide for trial
judges in organizing the progress of the complicated criminal
case. The organization of the Manual follows the various
stages of a criminal case from the filing of pre-indictment
motions through the conduct of the trial, including sections on
jury management and the regulation of prejudicial publicity as
it affects jury selection. Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference authorized the Director of the
                              114



Administrative Office to distrihute a copy of the Manual to
every district judge.

         PERIODIC REPORTING - JURY SELECTION

        At the Conference session in l\'larch 1982 (Conf. Rept. p.
4 I) the Com mittee recom mended that the clerks of the district
courts continue to collect statistical information to determine
whether jury wheels comply with the randomness and
nonoiscrimination provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1861 and 1862 but
that the clerks of court no longer be required to report that
information to the Administrative Office. The Committee at
that time noted that the responsibility for complying with the
requirements of the Jury Act remains with the district court
and that the judicial councils of the circuits should exercise
oversight responsibility. The Conference, however, asked the
Committee to consider whether Ii clerk of a district court can
discharge the court's responsibility to compile requisite
statistical information.

        Judge Clarie informed the Conference that the
Committee had again considered this recommendation and
continued to be of the view that the process of analyzing this
statistical information should be decentralized and performed
in the courts themselves. Fe assured the Conference that the
analysis would not be highly technical and that the Committee
had been reassurred that clerks of district courts have the
capacity to perform this function under the procedures and
instructions to be provided to them by the Administrative
Office.    The computation process required of the clerks
appears     easily  manageable and not          mathematically
sophisticated. Upon the recommendation of the Committee,
the Conference revised the regulations to require district
courts upon the refilling of jury wheels to make a random
sampJe of returned questionnaires to determine whether the
jury wheels comply with the provisions of the Jury Act and to
require the analysis to be performed locally by the clerk of the
district court under the directions of the Administrative
Office.


                  VOIR DIRE EXAMINATION

      The Conference in March 1982 ·(Conf. Rept. p. 41) voted
to express its opposition to S. 1532, 97th Congress, which
would amend Rule 24(a), Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
                             1J 5 




and Rule 47(a), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, to permit the
parties or their attorneys to conduct the voir dire examination
of prospective petit jurors.       Judge Clarie informed the
Conference that the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts
had subsequently amended this bill to require an opportunity
for the parties or their attorneys to conduct an oral
examination of jurors, but in civil cases to permit judges in
their discretion to limit attorney questioning except that each
side would have to be allowed at least 30 minutes for such
examination with an additional 10 minutes for multiple parties,
not to exceed one hour per side. In criminal cases no definition
would be made by this amendment of the "reasonable
limitations" which the court would be authorized to impose
upon attorney questioning. The Committee did not believe this
amendment to be meritorious and recommended that the
Conference oppose this amended version of the bill. This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.


             WITNESSES BEFORE GRAND JURIES
       The Conference in March 1982 (Conf. Rept. p. 40)
expressed its opposition to H.R. 4272, 97th Congress, which is
a bill to provide for the assistance of counsel for witnesses
appearing before grand juries and to authorize the court to
appoint and compensate counsel for any person subpoened to
appear before a grand jury who is financially unable to obtain
counsel. Judge Clarie informed the Conference that three
additional bills on this same subject, H.R. 5815, H.R. 5816, and
H.R. 5817, 97th Congress, had been introduced in the House of
Representatives. These· bills deal with the assistance of
counsel for grand jury witnesses, the subpoena and notification
of witnesses of their rights, and the treatment of recalcitrant
witnesses. In addition, one of the bills would require that the
court dismiss an indictment in advance of trial which is found
on the basis of the record of grand jury proceedings not to be
supported by evidence admissable at trial.           Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference voted to
recommend against the enactment of any of these bills.


    TAX TREATMENT OF .JURORS' ATTENDANCE FEES

       H.R. 6772, 97th Congress, is a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code to allow an individual's spouse to receive the
usual fee for service as a juror without losing eligibility for
                             116



certain retirement savings provisions relating to non-working
spouses. The bill was introduced to alleviate A ruling of the
Internal Revenue Service which might be adverse to the
interests of federal jurors. Section 219(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code creates a special rule for married individuals
filing a joint return whereby a deduction is allowed for
payments to an individual retirement account established for
the benefit of a spouse who has had no compensation during the
tax year. Since the receipt of the $30 juror attendance fee has
been defined as the receipt of "compensation", a non-working
spouse serving as a juror may lose a valuable benefit under the
tax laws. Because this interpretation of the law would appear
to penalize the performance of jury duty Ilnd to discourAge
willing compliance with the summons to serve, the Committee
recommended that the Conference record its support of B.R.
6772 as a matter of fairness in restoring to jurors what could
be a valuable benefit under the income tax laws.           This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.


         JUROR QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAlRE

        Judge Clarie stated that the Judicial Conference is
required by 28 U.S.C. 1869(h) to approve the juror qualification
form used by the United States district courts to ascertain the
qualification of persons whose names have been selected from
the master jury wheels for prospective jury service. The form
is distributed by mail to these prospective jurors. Recently the
Postal Service amended its regulations to increase the first­
class postage rate for items having the size of the current
juror questionnaire form.           To conserve funds the
Administrative Office proposed minor alterations to the
format of this form to bring its dimensions within a less
expensive postal classification as well as making it more
readable and understandable by prospective jurors. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
the revised version of the juror qualification form submitted by
the Committee.


      IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEE ON ADMISSION
        OF ATTORNEYS TO FEDERAL PRAC'l1CE

      The written report of the Implementation Committee on
the Admission of Attorneys to Federal Practice, of which
Judge James Lawrence King is Chairman, was received by the
Conference.
                             117



         The Committee reported that the 14 district courts
  participating in the pilot program of federal attorney
. adm issions standards were making satisfactory progress. \1ore
  than half of the participating courts have now successfully
.implemented their new admission rules.          The remaining
  districts indicate that substantial work has been done toward
  achieving that end. It has become clear to the Committee that
  several courts in the program cannot absorb the work of
  developing this program and the additional work which will
  inevitably be required to implement any new rules and policies
  imposing standards upon tile admission of attorneys to
  practice.

       The report also indicated that the Committee with the
assistance of the Federal Judicial Center had conducted a
productive meeting in April 19B2 which brought together for
discussion the chief judge or other overseeing judge and a bar
representative from each district court participating in the
pilot program.


           COMMrITEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES

    Judge Anthony M. Kennedy, Chairman of the
Committee on Pacific Territories, presented the report of the
Committee.

       The Committee recommended that the Conference
continue to support legislation to permit the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to review local law
cases arising in Guam and the Northern lVlariana Islands by
certiorari rather than by appeal, but reserve comment, pending
further study, on the proposal to empower the local courts in
these territories to render final decisions on local law
questions.     The Committee also recommended that the
Conference renew its support of legislation to make express
provision for jurisdiction in the district courts of the Pacific
Territories in diversity types of cases. These recommendations
were approved by the Conference.

           COMMITTEE ON JUDGESmp VACANCIES

       Judge Wilfred Feinberg, Chairman of the Committee on
 Judgeship   Vacancies,     presented    the    Committee'S
 recommendation that the Conference authorize the Chief
                             118



Justice, or his designated representative, to release at the
close of each Judicial Conference session a list of all existing
judicial vacancies, along with such information as the length of
time that each vacancy has been in existence and the current
public status of the appointment. It was the view of the
Committee that this procedure might assist to expedite the
filling of vacancies. The recommendation was approved by the
Conference.
       The Conference also approved the recommendation of
the Committee that it be discharged and that the appropriate
Conference Committee consider suggestions for dealing with
vacancy problems, such as a Speedy Judicial Appointments Act
or the creation of UfloaterUjudgeship positions.


         AD HOC COMMITTEE ON THE DISPOSmON 

                 OF COURT RECORDS 


       ,Judge Walter J. Cummings, Chairman of the Ad Hoc
Committee on the Disposition of Court Records, presented the
report of the Committee.


    RECORDS DISPOSITION PROGRAM AND SCHEDULE

       The Conference in March 1980 (Conf. Rept. p. 55)
approved a Records Disposition program and Records
Disposition schedules for the records of the various United
States courts exclusive of the Supreme Court. After the
schedules were formally issued in June 1980 several problems
arose concerning retention periods, the procedures for retiring
records to records centers and the need to establish schedules
for records not covered. In December 1980 in response to
these concerns the National Archives and Records Service
placed a moratorium on the destruction of court records until·
these problems could be addressed. At its session in March
1981 (Conf. Rept. p. 12) the Conference authorized the Chief
Justice to reactivate the Ad Hoc Committee on the Disposition
of Court Records for the purpose of considering modifications
to the schedules to resolve outstanding problems.
       Judge Cummings informed the Conference that the
reactivated Ad Hoc Committee had met on three difference
occasions, had received recommendations from the Archivist
of the United States and members of his staff, from a
                              119



committee of the Federal Court Clerks' Association, and from
members of the staff of the Administrative Office.
Furthermore, the Committee had received comments from
various judges and court officers on a revised records
disposition schedule which had been distributed for comment in
April 1982. On the basis of its further study the Committee
submitted to the Conference a proposed records disposition
program and schedule covering the records of the various
United States courts, other than. the Supreme Court, and
recommended that the disposition schedule and program
statement be approved by the Conference as submitted and
that the Conference authorize its transmission to the National
Archives and Records Service and to the courts concerned.
This recommendation was approved by the Conference.


    TERMINATION OF THE WORK OF 'THE COMMITTEE

       Judge Cummings stated that the work of the Committee
in preparing revised schedules for the disposition of the records
of the various United States courts had now been completed.
The Conference thereupon discharged the Committee from any
further responsibilities, and commended the Chairman and
members of the Committee for their work. The Conference
directed that future modifications in the disposition schedules
be considered by the appropriate committee of the
Conference.


                          ELECTIONS

       The Conference in March 1982 (Conf. Rept. p. 48)
authorized the Executive Committee to select a district judge
to serve as a member of the Hoard of the Federal Judicial
Center for a ~erm of four years succeeding Judge Aubrey E.
Robinson, Jr., whose term expired on March 28, 1982.
Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 62ICa)(2), the Executive Committee
selected Judge Warren Urbom of the District of Nebraska to
succeed Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., on the Board of the
Federal Judicial Center.
                             120



        COMMrITEE TO REVIEW clRcurr COUNCIL 

          CONDUCT AND DISABILrrY ORDERS 


       Judge Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr., Chairman of the
newly-appointed Committee to Review Circuit Council
Conduct and Disability Orders, reported that the Com mittee
had made a preliminary review of the need for procedures to
be followed by the Committee, but had adopted no rules as
yet. In this regard he solicited suggestions from members of
the Conference. The Committee has denied petitions for
review in four of the five petitions thus far received. The
record in the fifth case is not yet complete.

       The Judicial Council Reform and Judicial Conduct and
Disability Act of 1980, P.L. 96-458, requires the Director of
the Administrative Office to include in his Annual Report a
summary of the number of complaints filed with each Judicial
Council pursuant to Sec. 371(c) of Title 28, United States Code,
indicating the general nature of the complaints and the
disposition of those complaints in which action has been
taken.     To enable the Director to fulfill his reporting
obligations under this new law the Executive Committee of the
Conference had previously approved two separate forms to be
used by circuit councils in making their reports to the
Director. The use of these forms will enable the Director to
comply fully with the reporting requirements of the statute.

       COMMrrTEE ON SELECTION OF LAW CLERKS

       Judge Carl McGowan, Chairman of the Committee on
the Selection of Law Clerks, reported that the Committee had
been in contact with representatives of the Association of
American Law Schools and will meet soon to consider the
formulation of workable procedures to obviate the confusion
that now exists in the selection of law clerks.


       AD HOC COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL REVIEW 

   PROVISIONS IN REGULATORY REFORM LEGISLATION 


       Judge Carl McGowan, Chairman of the Ad Hoc
Committee on Judicial Review Provisions in Regulatory
Reform Legislation, stated that the recommendations of the
Conference pertaining to judicial review had been incorporated
in pending legislation, but that no final action had been taken
                            121



in the Congress. The Committee will continue to monitor
pending legislation.

                 COURTROOM F AClLmES

       The Conference approved the inclusion of a large
ceremonial courtroom in the remodeling of the courthouse in
Norfolk, Virginia and because of structural and other problems
authorized a variance in size from the Conference approved
stan<iards for the ceremonial courtroom as well as two hearing
rooms for magistrates.



            PRETERMISSION OF TERMS OF THE 

                 COURTS OF APPEALS 


       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the
pretermission of the terms of the United States courts of
appeals during the calendar year 1983 at the following
locations: at Asheville, North Carolina in the Fourth Circuit;
at Kansas City, Missouri and Omaha, Nebraska in the Eighth
Circuit; and at Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and Wichita, Kansas
in the Tenth Circuit.


            RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

       The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for
legislative or administrative action.


                           Warren E. Burger
                           Chief Justice of the United States

November 12, 1982
                                                    122 




                                                  INDEX

                                                                                                     Page

Additional Judgeships. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • •• . • • • • . • . • • • • • 60
Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice,
     Code of Conduct. . • . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . • • • . . . • . . . . . . • • .           83
Administrative Office of U. S. Courts,
   Director; Code of Conduct for. . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 83
   Report of the Director. • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • 57
Admission of Attorneys to Federal Practice
  Implementation Committee on; Report of •••••••••••••• 116
Antitrust Cases; Contribution and Claims
  Reduction in. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        66
Appellate Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       86
Appointments and Payments, Criminal Justice Act •••••••••• 107
Appropriations for FY 1984 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 80
Arbitrators; Senior Judges as •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 84
Bankruptcy Rules ••••••••••••••••••••.•••.•..••••••••••                                              85
Bankruptcy System:
   Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges ••••••••••••••••••                                             88
   Bankruptcy Appeals in District Courts •••••••••••••••••                                           91
   Bankruptcy Judges; Survey of Need for.. • • • • • • • • • •• • •• •                               88
   Guidelines for Chapter 13 Administration...............                                           90
   J urisdi cti onal Con fli cts ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                      91
Bicentennial of the Constitution; Commission on •••••••••••                                          60
Budget:
   Appropriations for FY 1984. • • • •• •• • • • • • • • • •• • • • •• • • ••                         80
   Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                   80
   Supporting Personnel for Senior Judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                            81
Budget Requests, Federal Public Defenders ••••••••••••••••                                           108
Circuit Executives; Code of Conduct for ••••••••••••••••••                                            84
Civil Rules. . • . . . • . . . . . . • . • . • . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . .    86
Clerks of Courts:
   Codes of Conduct for. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •. 84
     Residences of •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                           72
  Supporting Clerical Staff •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                             80
Codes of Conduct:
   Advisory Committee on; Report of ••••••••••••••••••••                                              83
   Applicability of Codes of Conduct. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                          83
   Model Codes for Various Judicial Employees.. •• • •• •• •• •                                       84
  Senior Judges as Arbitrators. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                     84
Community Defender Organizations, Grant Requests ••••••••                                            109
Complex Criminal Jury Trials; Manual for •••••••••••••••••                                           113
Conduct and Disability Orders:
   Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                   120
                                              123 




Congressional Redistricting. . . . • . . . • . . . . • • . • . • . . . • • . • . • . .       67 

Court Administration: 

   Additional Judgeships. • . . • • . • . • • . . • • . . • • • • • •• • • • • • • • •       60 

   Authorization of Temporary Personnel for Judges. • • • • • ••                             77 

   Changes in Authorization and Compensation of 

    Supporting Clerical Staff. • . • • • • . • . • . • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • •         80 

   Committee on; Report of. • • • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • •          60 

   Congressional Redistricting. • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••           67 

   Contributions and Claims Reduction in 

    Antitrust Cases. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . • . . . . .. . • .. . ..     66 

    Court Reporters •..•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                     79 

    Court Interpreters Act •••<. • • . . . . • . • . • . . . . • . • . . . . • . . • .       73 

    Immigration Court ................................. ,.                                   63 

    Judicial Restraint Act. • . • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • •• • • • •• •• • • ••          68 

    Judicial Review of the Denial of Veterans Claims........                                 65 

    Jurisdiction of Bankruptcy Courts •••••••••••••••••••••                                  68 

    Litigation Expenses of Judicial Officers.. • • • •• • •• • • • • ••                      75 

     Miscellaneous Fees. • . • . • • . • • • . . • • • • . • • • • . • • • . • • . • • • •   76 

  National Court of Appeals and Intercircuit 

    Tribunal of Courts of Appeals........................                                    71 

  National Judicial Study Commission ...................                                     71 

  Places of Holding Court. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • •         72 

  Residences of Clerks of Court ........................                                     72 

  Review of Decisions of the Employees' 

    Compensation Appeals Board. • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • •                 67 

  Social Security Court. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • •       64 

  Space Utilization Survey. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • •          77 

  Technical Amendments to 28 USC 1364 ••••••••••••••••                                       72 

  Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges.............                                    74 

  Venue in Courts of Appeals and District Courts..........                                   69 

   Waiver of Overpayments ••••••••••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                        73 

Court Interpreters Act. • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •    73 

Court Reporters .••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                      79 

Courts: 

   Bankruptcy: 

    Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges.. • • • • • • • • • •• ••••                           88 

    Jurisdiction of Bankruptcy Courts ••••••••••••••••• '. • •                               68 

   Claims Court; Miscellaneous Fees.. ••• • • • •• • •• • • • •••••                          76 

   Courts of Appeals: 

       Venue ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                    69 

      Pretermission of Terms. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 121 

     District Courts: 

      Bankruptcy Appeals in •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 91 

      Courtroom F acUity, Norfolk, Virginia.. • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 121 

       Venue ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                    69 

                                                 124 





Criminal Justice Act:
   Appointments and Payments. • . • • • • • • •• . • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                      107
   Budget Requests, Federal Public Defenders •••••••••••••                                         108
   Committee on; Report of •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                           107
   Funding for Federal Public Defender, Florida (S) •••••••••                                      110
   Grant Requests, Community Defender Organizations •••••                                          109
     Guidelines. . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . .. III
Criminal Law:
   Amendments to Smuggling Statute •••••••••••••••••••••                                           112
   Commitment of Mentally Incompetent Offenders ••••••••                                           113
   Committee on; Report of. • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                  III
   Interlocutory Appeals. • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••             112
   Sealing of Records under Youth Corrections Act. • • • • • • ••                                  112
Crim inal Rules. • . . . • . . • . . . • . . . . • . . • • . . . • . . • . . . . • . . . . . . •    85
Election, Federal Judicial Center Board. • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • •• 119
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board;
   Review of Decisions of.••••• .; •••••••••• ~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • 67
Equal Access to Justice' • • • • • • • • • • • •• •• • • • • • • • •• •• • • • • • •• 57
Equal Employment Opportunity .......................... 57
Ethics in Government Act                    .
   (see "Judicial Ethics")
Executive Committee:
   Bankruptcy Judges; Survey of Need for. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 88
   Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders •••••••••• 120
     Elections. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 119
   Jurisdiction of Bankruptcy Courts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 68
   Qualification and Selection of Magistrates. • • • • • • • • • • • • • 93
   Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges •••••••• .;.... 74
Federal Judicial Center:
   Director, Codes of Conduct for ....................... 83
   Election to the Board. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 119
   Report of the Director. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 57
Federal Public Defender:
     Budget Requests •••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • •• 108
   Florida (Southern) • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • •• • •• •• • • • •• • • • • •• ••               110
Fees:
   Jurors' Fees; Tax Treatment of••••••••••••••••••••••••                                          115
   Miscellaneous Fees; Claims Court.....................                                            76
Financial Disclosure Reports:
   Ethics Committee Activities..........................                                            81
   Forms and Instructions. • • • • •• • ••• • • •• •• • •• • ••• • • ••• • •                        82
Grand Juries; Witnesses before. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                 115
Grant Requests, Community Defender Organizations ••••••••                                          109
                                                 125




Guidelines:
    Bankruptcy, Chapter 13 Administration .•..•..••.•..••. 90 

    Criminal Justice Act .•...•.....•..•...•...•.•..•••.• III 

Immigration Court. . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . • . • . . • • . 63 

Intercircuit Assignments; Committee on, Report of . • • . . • • . • 84 

Intercircuit Tribunal of Courts of Appeals 

    and National Court of Appeals .. . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 71 

Interlocutory Appeals. . . • . . . • . • . . . . . . • • . . • . . • . . • • . . • . • •. 112 

Judges: 

    Bankruptcy:
       Arrangments for. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        88 

     Survey of Need •••...•..••.•..••..•...•.••.••..•••. 88 

   Personnel for; Authorization for Temporary............. 77 

   Senior: 

     As Arbitrators. • • . . • . • • . . • • • . • . . • . . • • . • • . . • . . • • . • • . 84 

     Supporting Personnel for . • . . • • . • . . • • . • • . . • • • . • • • • . • • 81 

   Travel Regulations for. . • • • . • . . . . • . . . • • . . • . . • • • • • • • • • 74 

Judgeship Vacancies; Committee on, Report of. . •...•..•• •. 117 

Judgeships, Additional. . . . . • • . . . • . . . • • . . . . • . • • . • • • • • • . • • 60 

Judicial Branch: 

   Bicentennial of the Constitution. • . . . • • . . • . • • . • . • • • • • . • 60 

   Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • . . • • . 59 

   Judicial Salary Control Act of 1981 . . • • • • • . • • • . • . . • • . • • 59 

Judicial Conference:
   Call of .......................................... ,. . . 55 

     Release of Action •..••. ,. .••...•.......••...•....• ,. .. 121 

Judicial Councils: 

    Review of Conduct and Disability Orders............... 120 

   Supporting Personnel for Senior Judges................. 81 

Judicial Ethics: 

    Activities of the Committee........ ........... ....... 81 

    Com mittee on; Report of. • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 81 

    Reporting Form and Instructions •••••••••.••.•••••.••• 82 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 58 

Judicial Restraint Act. • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . . • • . . • . . . . . • . . • • . 68 

Jurisdiction: 

     Bankruptcy Courts ..•... ,. ... ,. ....•......•..•.. ,......                                  68 

     Magistrates .,. ................. ,.....................                                      92 

     Confli cts ........ ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    91 

Jury System: 

   Attendance Fees; Tax Treatment of ••••••••••.••.•••.•                                          115 

   Committee on; Report of. • • • . • . . . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                113 

   Complex Criminal Jury Cases; Manual.for ••••..•••.••••                                         113 

   Juror Qualification Questionnaire ••••••••••.••••••••••                                        116 

   Periodic Reporting - Jury Selection. • • • • •• • . • • • • • • • • • ••                       114 

Jury System (Contfd)
    Voir Dire Examinations •.•••.••••.•••.••••.•••.••••.• 114
    Witnesses before Grand Juries .••..•.•..••...•..•.•... 115
Law Clerks:
    Code of Conduct. . .. . . . . . . . .. .. . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
    Committee on Selection of ..••..•••.•••...•..•••..••• 120
Litigation Expenses of Judicial Officers. . • . • • • . . • • • . • . . • • • 75
Legislation:
    Bankruptcy Courts; Jurisdiction of. • . • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • . 68
    Bicentennial of the Constitution; Commission on ••..•••. 60
    Congressional Redistricting. . • . • . • • . • • • • . . • • • . • • • • • • . • 67
    Contribution and Claims Reduction in
     Antitrust Cases.. .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 66
    Court Interpreters Act. . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • 73
     1m migration Court ...................................                                   63 

   Interlocutory Appeals. • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • . •.       112
   Judicial Restraint Act. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •        68
   Judicial Salary Control Act of 1981 • • • . • • • .. . • • • • • • . • . .                 59
   National Court of Appeals and Intercircuit
    Tribunal of Courts of Appeals. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              71
   National Judicial Study Commission •••••••••••••••••••                                     71
   Places of Holding Court. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • •         72
   Residences of Clerks of Court ........................                                     72
   Review of Decisions of the Employees'
     Compensation Appeals Board.. • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • •                 67
   Smuggling Statute ....................................                                    112 

   Social Security Court •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • •        64
   Tax Treatment of Jurors' Attendance Fees. • . • • • • • • • • • ••                        115
   Technical Amendments to 28 USC 1364 ••••••••••••••••                                       72
   Venue in Courts of Appeals and District Courts. • • • • • • • • •                          69
   Veterans Claims; Judicial Review of Denial of ••••••••••                                   65
   Voir Dire Examination. • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • ••           114
   Waiver of Overpayments •••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • •                                    73
   Witnesses before Grand Juries ........................                                    115
Magistrates; Civil Rules affecting. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •             86
Magistrates System:
   Changes in Magistrates Positions. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                94
   Committee on; Report of.......................... •••                                      92
   Jurisdiction of Magistrates ...........................                                    92
   Qualification Standards and Selection Procedures. • • • • • • •                            93
Mentally Incompetent Offenders; Commitment of ••••••••••                                     113
Miscellaneous Fees.. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . .. . . .. . . . . . . . .        76
Multidistrict Litigation; Judicial Panel on •••••••••••••••••                                 58
National Court of Appeals and Intercircuit
   Tribunal of Courts of Appeals.........................                                     71
                                 127



National Judicial Study Commission ......••...•...••.•••.          71 

Northern Pipeline Construction Co. v. Marathon 

   Pipe Line Construction Co., et.al: 

    Bankruptcy Rules .•••.••....•...•....•..•..•..••••.            85 

    Jurisdictional Conflicts •....•...•....•..•.•..••...••         91 

Overpayments; Waiver of.   III!.,. •••••••••••••••••••••• ••••••   73 

Pacific Territories; Committee on, Report of .....••••••••• 117 

Periodic Reporting - Jury Selection ...................... . 114 

Places of Holding Court .••.••.••..•••.•.....••..••.••••• 72 

Pretermission of Terms of Courts of Appeals •.•..•..•.••.•• 121 

Probation Officers; Code of Conduct for ••.••.•.••.••••••. 84 

Probation System: 

   Committee on; Report of.••••.•••••.•.•.•••.•••••••.• 87 

   Sentencing Institutes ............................... . 87 

   Sentencing Reform •••.•••••••••••••••••••••••.• •.••• 87 

Records Disposition: 

   Ad Hoc Committee on; Report of. ................... .. 118 

   Program and Schedule •.••••.••..•.••.••••••••••••..• 118 

   Termination of the Work of the Committee ••••.••.•.••. 119 

Regulatory Reform; Ad Hoc Committee on, Report of ••.•••• 120 

Residences of Clerks of Courts •••.••..•.•••••.•••••.••.•• 72 

Rules of Practice and Procedure: 

   Appellate Rules ••••••.••.••.•.•••••.••.•••..••.••••• 86 

   Bankruptcy Rules .................................. . 85 

   Civil Rules ......................................... . 86 

   Committee on; Report of . .......••.....•.••.•.••..••. 85 

   Criminal Rules ...•........•....•...............•.... 85 

   Operating Procedures; Statement of •••.•••.••••.•••••• 86 

Salary Control Act of 1981; Judicial ..................... . 59 

Sentencing Institutes .................................. . 87 

Sentencing Reform .................................... . 87 

Smuggling Statute; Amendments to ••••••••••••••••••••••• 112 

Social Security Court ...•.........................•..•.. 64 

Space Utilization Survey •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 77 

Staff Attorneys; C ode of Conduct ....................... . 84 

Supporting Personnel: 

   Clerks! Offices ....•..............•••••...•.••.•..••. 80 

   Senior Judges ...............•..•.................... 81 

   Temporary Personnel for Judges ••.•••••••••••••••••••• 77 

Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges •••••••••••••••• 74 

Venue in Courts of Appeals and District Courts ••••••••••••• 69 

Veterans Claims; Judicial Review of Denial of •••••.••••••• 65 

Voir Dire Examination ..........................•.••.•.. 114 

Waiver of Overpayments .•••.•••....•.••....•...••...... 73 

Witnesses before Grand Juries ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 115 

Youth Corrections Act; Sealing of Records under ••••••••••• 112 

