          REPORT 

             of the. 

   PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 




         March 11-12, 1982




         Washington, D.C.
               1982
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 



        William E. Foley 

            Director 

          REPORT 

             of the
    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 


         March 11-12, 1982




         Washington, D.C.
              1982
        THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331

§331.   JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES


  The Chief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of each
judicial circuit, the chief judge of the Court of Claims, the chief judge of the Court of Cus·
toms and Patent Appeals, and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at
such time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such
conference which shall be known as the Judicial Conference of the United States. Special
sessions of the conference may be called by the Chief Justice at such times and places as
he may designate.
   The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the
circuit and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held
pursuant to section 333 of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for three
successive years, except that in the year following the enactment of this amended section
the judges in the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth circuits shall choose a district judge to
serve for one year, the judges in the second, fifth, and eighth circuits shall choose a district
judge to serve for two years and the judges in the third, sixth, ninth, and District of
Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for three years.
   If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit
is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon any other circuit or district judge from
such circuit. If the chief judge of the Court of Claims or the chief judge of the Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals is unable to attend. the Chief Justice may summon an
associate judge of such court. Every judge summoned shall attend, and, unless excused by
the Chief Justice, shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to
the needs of his circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of which the administra·
tion of justice in the courts of the United States may be improved.
  The conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from cir·
cuits or districts where necessaty, and shall submit suggestions to the various courts. in the
interest of uniformity and expedition of business.
  The conference shall also carry on a continuous study of the operation and effect of the
general rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as prescribed by the
Supreme Court for the other courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes
in and additions to those rules as the conference may deem desirable to promote simplicity
in procedure. fairness in administration, the just determination of litigation, and the elim·
ination of unjustifiable expense and delay shall be recommended by the conference from
time to time to the Supreme Court for its consideration and aooptim, modification or
rejection, in accordance with law.
   The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice, report to such conference
on matters relating to the business of the several courts of the United States, with par·
ticular reference to cases to which the United States is a party.
  The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings of the
Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.



                                            (iv)
                            TABLE OF CONTENTS 


             REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

         JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES 


                               March 11-12, 1982 


                                                                                   Page
Call of the Conference • • • • • • . • • • . . . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •       1

Report of the Director of the Administrative 

 Office of the United States Courts. • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               3

Committee on the Judicial Branch. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              4

    Judicial Survivors Annuities •••••••••••••••••••••                               4

    Judicial Salary Control Act of 1981 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              5

    Biennial Salary Commission. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            6

Committee on Court Administration • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                7

     Staff Attorneys . . . . • . . . • . . . • . . . • • . . • • . • . . • . • •     7

     Staffing Formula for Clerks Offices. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              7

     Court Reporters. . . . • . • • • . . • • . . . • . . . • . . . . . • . • •      8

     Civil Case Management .•••••••••••••••••••••••                                 12 

     United States Marshals Service • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •           14 

     Court-Annexed Arbitration. . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •           15 

     Places of Holding Court ••••••••••••••••••••••••                               15 

     Biennial Survey of Judgeship Needs. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              16 

     Salaries of Article I Judges and 

       Supporting Judicial Officers. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •          16 

     Retirement of Article I Judges •••••••••••••••••••                             17 

     Prisoner Civil Rights Cases. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • •         18 

     National Court of Appeals and Intercircuit 

       Tribunal of the United States Courts 

       of Appeals ••••.•••••.•••.•.•••••••...••..•                                  18 

    Divisional Venue in Civil Cases. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            19 

    Interim Designation of a United States 

      Attorney or United States Marshal • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               19 

    National Judicial Study Commission and 

      a State Justice Institute. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .        20 

Committee on the Budget. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •          21 

    Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1982 • • • • • • • • • • • • •               22 

    Amendments to the Budget Request for 

      the Fiscal Year 1983 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •        22 

Judicial Ethics Committee ••••••••••• • • • • . • • • • • • • • •                   23 

    Reporting Form and Instructions • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .             23 

    Social Security Incom e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •       23 

    Amendments to the Ethics in Government 

       Act •••••••••••••••••.•.•••••.••••••••••.                                    23 

                                         (vi)




   Fees for Copies of Disclosure Reports •.••••••••••••                              24 

   Review of Financial Disclosure 

     Statements ............................... .                                    24 

Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct ••••••••••••••                                25 

   Activities of the Committee •••••••••.•••••••••••                                 25 

   Senior Judges as Arbitrators ••••••••••••••••.••••                                25 

Committee on the Administration of the 

 Federal Magistrates System ••••••••••••••••••.••••                                  26 

   Salaries of Parl-Time Magistrates •••••••••••••••••                               26 

   Changes in Magistrates Positions ••••••••••••••••••                               26 

   Legal Assistant Positions •••••••••••••••••••••••                                 36 

Committee on the Administration of the 

 Bankruptcy System .•••••••.•••••••.••••••••••••                                     36 

   Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges •••••••••••.•••                                37 

   Bankruptcy Administrator •••••••••••••••••••••••                                  37 

Committee on the Administration of the 

 Probation System . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . .        37 

   Sentencing Institutes •.••••••••••.•.••••••.••••                                  38 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Criminal Law . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     38 

   Criminal Code Revision ••••••.••.••••••••••••••                                   38 

Committee on the Operation of the 

 Jury System . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . .     40 

   Jury Trials in Land Condemnation Cases ••••••••••••                               40 

   Witnesses Before Grand Juries ••••••••••••••••••••                                40 

   Voir Dire Examination •••••••••••••••••••••••••                                   41 

   Periodic Reporting-Jury Selection •••••••.••••••••                                41 

   Security of Juror Deliberations ••••••••••••••••• '.'                             42 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments ••••••••••••••••                               42 

Committee to Implement the Criminal 

 Justice Act .................................. .                                    43 

   Appointments and Payments •••••••••••••••••••••                                   43 

   Budget Requests-Federal Public Defenders .••••••••••                              44 

    Guidelines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   44 

   Community Defender Oranizations-

    Conditions of Grant ••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                   45 

   Revisions to the Criminal Justice Act ••••••••••••••                              45 

Committee on Rules of Practice 

  and Procedure ••.••••••••.•.••••••.••••••••.••.                                    45 

    Amendments to the Federal Rules of 

       Civil Procedure ........•.....•..••....•..•..                                 45 

    Bankruptcy Rllles .••.•••••••••••.••.••••••••.•                                  46 

    Appellate Rwes ............................. .                                   47 

    Criminal Rules .•..........•..•.......•.......                                   47 

Implementation Committee on Admission 

  of Attorneys to Federal Practice •••••••••••••••••••                               47 

                             (vii)




Ad Hoc Committee on the Disposition 

  of Court Records ••                       48 

Elections ..................... .           48 

Additional Judgeships .••••••••••••         49 

Study Group on Selection of Law Clerks ••   49 

Committee on Judicial Vacancies             49 

Court Security ••••••••••••                 49 

Pretermission of Terms of the 

  Courts of Appeals •••••••••               50 

Resolution •••••••.••••••••                 50 

Release of Conference Action ••             51 

                    REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

                    OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 

                        OF THE UNITED STATES 

                          March 11-12, 1982

       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened
on March 11, 1982, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of
the United States, issued under 28 U.S.C 331, and continued in
session on March 12th. The Chief Justice presided and the
following members of the Conference were present:

First Circuit:

    Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin
    Chief Judge Raymond J. Pettine, District of Rhode Island

Second Circuit:

    Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
    Chief Judge Lloyd F. MacMahon, Southern District of
      New York

Third Circuit:

    Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz 

    Chief Judge Gerald J. Weber, Western District of 

      Pennsylvania 

Fourth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
    Chief Judge Charles E. Simons, Jr., District of South
      Carolina*
Fifth Circuit:

    Chief Judge Charles Clark
    Chief Judge John V. Singleton, Jr., Southern District of
      Texas




*Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Judge Robert R.
Merhige, Jr., who was unable to attend.

   374-619 0 - 82
                                2




Sixth Circuit:

    Chief Judge George C. Edwards, Jr.
    Chief Judge Frank J. Battisti, Northern District of Ohio

Seventh Circuit:

    Chief Judge Walter J. Cummings
    Judge S. Hugh Dillin, Southern District of Indiana

Eighth Circuit:

    Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
    Judge Albert G. Schatz, District of Nebraska

Ninth Circuit:

    Chief Judge James R. Browning
    Judge Manuel L. Real, Central District of California

Tenth Circuit:

    Chief Judge Oliver Seth
    Chief Judge Howard C. Bratton, District of New Mexico
Eleventh Circuit:

    Chief Judge John C. Godbold
    Judge William C. O'Kelly, Jr.

District of Columbia Circuit:

    Chief Judge Spottswood W. Robinson, III
    Chief Judge John Lewis Smith, District of Columbia

Court of Claims:

    Chief Judge Daniel M. Friedman

Court of Customs and Patent Appeals:

    Chief Judge Howard T. Markey
                               3




      Circuit Judges Irving R. Kaufman, Otto R. Skopil,
Edward A. Tamm, and Gerald B. Tjoflat; Senior District Judges
Elmo B. Hunter and Thomas J. MacBride; and District Judges
C. Clyde Atkins, Robert E. DeMascio, Edward T.Gignoux and
Alexander Harvey IT, attended all or some of the sessions of
the Conference.
       The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable
William French Smith, and the Solicitor General of the United
States, Honorable Rex E. Lee, addressed the Conference
briefly on matters of mutual interest to the Department of
Justice and the Conference.
       Honorable Robert W. Kastenmeier, Chairman of the
H<?use Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Civil Liberties and
the Administration of Justice addressed the Conference briefly
on matters pending in the Congress of interest to the
Judiciary. Richard W. Velde of the staff of the Senate
Judiciary Committee and John G. Osthaus of the staff of the
House Appropriations Subcommittee attended portions of the
Conference and briefly addressed the Conference.
       William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
Director; James E. Macklin, Assistant Director; William J.
Weller, Legislative Affairs Officer; Michael J. Remington,
Deputy Legislative Affairs Officer; Deborah H. Kirk, Chief,
Office of Management Review; and Charles W. Nihan, Deputy
Director of the Federal Judicial Center, attended sessions of
the Conference. The Director of the Federal Judicial Center,
A. Leo Levin, reported briefly on the activities of the Center
since the last session of the Conference. John Yoder of the
Supreme Court staff was also in attendance.

               REPORT OF THE nmECTOR 

             OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

             OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 


       The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, William E. Foley, submitted to the Conference a
brief report on the caseloads of the United States courts during
the calendar year 1981.

      Mr. Foley reported that the appeals docketed in the
United States courts of appeals increased to 27,445 in 1981, a
                               4




13.8 percent increase over the 24,122 appeals docketed during
1980. During the year there were 26,757 appeals terminated,
an increase of 16.9 percent over the number terminated in
1980, but 688 appeals less than the number filed. Again the
number of appeals pending on December 31, 1981 reached a
newall-time high of 22,117, an increase of 3.2 percent in one
year.
       Civil cases filed in the district courts in 1981 increased
9.2 percent to a record 190,430. There were 180,799 civil
cases disposed of during the year, an increase of 5.7 percent
over the previous year, but 9,631 cases fewer than the number
filed.   As a result the backlog of pending civil actions
increased to a record 196,646 as of December 31, 1981.

       During 1981 there were 31,566 criminal cases filed in
the district courts, a 5.7 percent increase over 1980. There
were 30,197 criminal cases disposed of and the number of
criminal cases pending on December 31, 1981 increased to
16,174, a 9.2 percent rise. Prosecutions for weapons and
firearms violations and prosecutions for 'marihuana violations
increased almost 40 percent during the year.
      In 1981 a record 523,825 separate estates filed for
bankruptcy in the United States bankruptcy courts, an increase
of 10.9 percent over 1980 and a newall-time record high.
There were 383,481 bankruptcy estates closed during the year,
compared with 233,442 estates closed in 1980.           As of
December 31, 1981 there were 685,330 estates pending on the
dockets of the bankruptcy courts.


          COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

       Judge Irving R. Kaufman, Chairman of the Committee
on the Judicial Branch, submitted the Committeets report.


              JUDICIAL SURVIVORS ANNUITIES

       Judge Kaufman stated that the Judicial Conference
approved bill to amend the Judicial Survivors Annuity Act had
been introduced in the Congress as H.R. 4763, 97th Congress.
A similar bill, S. 1874, 97th Congress, has been introduced in
the Senate. The differences between the two bills are minor
and Judge Kaufman assured the Conference that a compromise
                               5




could be easily developed. Both bills would provide for an
increase in the maximum annuity payable to the surviving
spouse of a judge, provide a minimum annuity equal to 30
percent of the average salary over the last three years, and
increase substantially the annuities payable to surviving minor
dependent children. In addition the bills would increase the
contribution of participants in the system from 4.5 percent of
salary to 5 percent of salary. The bills would also allow a
judge to withdraw from the system and receive a refund of
contributions. The Committee recommended, however, that
both bills be amended to include a. provision permitting an open
season to allow a judge to join or withdraw from the system.
This provision would be similar to that contained in the 1976
amendments to the Judicial Survivors Annuity System. The
Conference approved the Committeets recommendation.

         JUDICIAL SALARY CONTROL ACT OF 1981
       S. 1847, 97th Congress, is a bill to prohibit any future
increases in salaries of Federal judges absent an affirmative
record vote in both Houses of Congress, and to require an
annual review by both Houses of Congress of all standing
substantive program authorizations for Judicial Branch
activities. The bill was reviewed by the Committee on the
Judicial Branch and the Committee on Court Administration.
In regard to judicial salaries both Committees noted that the
Conference had previously recommended legislation to create
a biennial Commission on Federal Judicial Salaries and remove
the Judiciary from the scope of the Federal Salary Control Act
of 1967, 2 U.S.C. 356. The draft bill provides that any salary
increases recommended by the existing Itquadrenniallt
commission would become effective only after submission to
the Congress and an affirmative expression of approval
manifested by roll-call votes in both Houses. Judge Kaufman
also pointed out that the provision in S. 1847 which would
require Congressional approval of comparability adjustments
creates an ambiguity in the law since it does not expressly
repeal the procedures of the Executive Salary Cost-of-Living
Adjustment Act of 1975. Upon the recommendation of both
Committees the Conference reaffirmed its recognition of the
ultimate final authority of Congress to set judicial salaries,
and expressed its preference for the draft legislation which has
already been transmitted to the Congress by the Conference.
      In regard to the mandatory requirement for an annual
program authorization for the entire Judicial Branch, the
                              6




Committee on Court Administration concluded that exisiting
oversight by the Judiciary Committees in both Houses of
Congress, in conjunction with established budgetary oversight
procedures followed by the Appropriations Committees in both
Houses, already fully achieves the same oversight objectives to
be achieved under S. 1847. In addition, the ambiguous language
of the bill, as presently drawn, may encourage improper
intrusions into the work _of the courts, which Congress has
always recognized should be left to the courts themselves. The
Committee recommended that the Conference advise Congress
that the enactment of the bill would therefore serve no useful
purpose find might also raise a broad spectrum of potential
future policy problems for both the Legislative and Judicial
Branches of the Federal Government.           The Conference
unanimously agreed that the bill's objectives are both
unnecessary and unwise, and authorized both Committees to so
advise the Congress.

              BIENNIAL SALARY COMMISSION
       H.R. 4886, 97th Congress, would amend the Federal
Salary Act -of 1967 to authorize a biennial rather than a
quadrennial commission on Executive, Legislative and Judicial
Salaries. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference adopted the following resolution:
      Because H.R. 4886, which, by amending the
      Federal Salary Act of 1967, provides that
      recommendations for the adjustment of
      executive, legislative, and judicial salaries be
      made biennially instead of quadrennially, could
      accelerate correction of inequities in salaries of
      members of the Federal bench, it is resQlved that
      the Judicial Conference of the United States
      endorses H.R. 4886, insofar as it applies to the
      Judiciary. Furthermore, the Judicial Conference
      once again endorses its own legislation, which, by
      providing amendments to the Federal Salary Act
      of 1967, would create a separate Biennial
      Commission to determine judicial salaries only.
    The Conference authorized the            release   of   the
Committee's report to all Federal judges.
                               7



         COMMrrrEH ON COURT ADMINISTRA110N

      Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration, presented the report of the Committee.
                     STAFF ATTORNEYS
         The Conference in September 1981, Conf. Rept. p. 69,
adopted a policy "that the number of staff attorneys in each
circuit court, including the senior staff attorney, should not
exceed the number of active judgeships authorized for that
courtll , but permitted retention of already authorized positions
in excess of that number IIfor a period of two years or until
expressly approved by the Judicial Conference following a
showing of specific and well-documented justification,
whichever shall occur first." The Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit had requested approval for the retention of its 30
currently authorized staff attorneys, a number which exceeds
the 23 authorized judgeships. Judge Hunter stated that the
Committee was impressed by the fact that this number was
specifically justified to the staff of the House Appropriations
Subcommittee in answer to their questioning of the number
during the presentation of the Judiciary's appropriations
request for the fiscal year 1982 and was subsequently approved
by the House. The Committee further noted that during the
past year the Ninth Circuit not only had 23 active judges, but
also had 7 senior judges and about 10 visiting judges each
month, thus adding significantly to the workload placed before
the staff attorney's office.           Upon the Committee's
recommendation the Conference accepted the justification
submitted and approved' the 30 positions for the staff
attorney's office in the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
        STAFFING FORMULA FOR CLERKS OFFICES
       The Committee submitted to the Conference the results
of a work measurement study of the clerks offices of district
courts conducted by the Administrative Office at the request
of the Budget Committee of the Conference. Recognizing that
the new formUla was based upon the output of average clerks
and deputy clerks, and that some courts might not need all the
personnel indicated by the formUla, the Committee
recommended approval of the new staffing formula as a guide
with additional positions to be made available only when
requested, and upon a demonstrated justification of need. The
Conference approved this recommendation.
                               8




                     COURT REPORTERS
        The Conference in September 1981, Conf. Rept. p. 72,
returned to the Committee for further consideration various
proposals and policies relating to the court reporting system
and requested that the circuit judicial councils review the
proposals and comment thereon to the Committee. Judge
Hunter informed the Conference that the Committee had
reviewed the comments received from the circuit councils and
from the United States Court Reporter.'s Association. As a
result some of the original proposals have been revised to
incorporate many of the desires of the circuit councils in a
manner designed to promote good management of court
reporter resources within the individual courts. Judge Hunter
advised the Conference that the revised proposals now include
a role for the circuit councils in assuring the proper supervision
and utilization of court reporters. The proposals submitted by
the Committee are as follows:
    1.    Court Reporter Management Plan

          That the Conference recommend that the
          judicial council require each district court,
          subject to such exceptions as may be granted by
          the circuit council, to develop a court reporter
          management plan that will provide for the day­
          to-day management and supervision of an
          efficient court reporting service within the
          court.     Each plan is to provide for the
          supervision of court reporters in their relations
          with litigants as specified in the Court Reporter
          Act, including fees charged for transcripts,
          adherence to transcript format prescriptions
          and delivery schedules. The plan must also
          provide that supervision be exercised by the
          clerk of court, district court executive, judge or
          other person designated by the court; that
          reporting tasks are to be apportioned equi tably
          at the same site; and that, through scheduling,
          the use of temporary or contractual services is
          to be minimized to every extent practicable.
          Each "Court Reporter Management Plan!! is to
          be approved by the judicial council of the
          circuit and a copy filed with the Administrative
          Office. The Administrative Office will assist
          the courts in establishing supervised court
          reporting services and productivity standards.
                              9





  2.     Swing Reporters

         That the Conference establish as a policy that,
         in the future, permanent swing reporters may
         only be authorized when a court in fact has
         implemented a system in which each reporter is
         fully utilized. Swing reporters will be granted
         only on a showing of demonstrated need and the
         full use of existing personnel. When, in rare
         cases, existing full-time reporters do not meet
         all the reporting needs of the court, and a swing
         reporter is not justified, those needs will be met
         by contract reporters on an intermittent basis.

         Production of daily and hourly transcripts is not
         to be subsidized by the court. If extra reporters
         are required to produce expedited transcripts,
         their fees are to be paid out of the earnings
         derived from those higher transcript rates
         established by the Judicial Conference. Other
         reporters from the pool may , however, assist
         with the production of daily transcript when
         there are no other judicial proceedings to
         record, including those of magistrates, and
         when no transcript backlog will result.
  3.     Certification of Transcript Rates
         That to insure compliance with regulations of
         the Judicial Conference, each court be directed
         to take any necessary action including, but not
         limited to, dismissal of the court reporter or
         restitution of overcharges, whether they arise
         out of a violation of page rates, page format, or
         time limits for delivery. In order for the public
         to be aware of the maximum transcript fees to
         be charged, a schedule of the prescribed fees is
         to be posted prominently in the clerk's office.
         The reporter is required to certify on each
         invoice that the fee charged and the page
         format used conform to the regulations of the
         Judicial Conference.




374-619 0 - 32 -   3
                         10 




4.   Late Delivery of Transcripts

     That for transcript of a case on appeal not
     delivered within 30 days of the date ordered and
     payment received therefor, or within such other
     time as may be prescribed by the circuit
     council, the reporter may charge only 90
     percent of the prescribed fee; that for a
     transcript not delivered within 60 days of the
     date ordered and, payment received therefor, or
     within such other time as may be prescribed by
     the circuit council, the reporter may charge
     only 80 percent of the prescribed fee. No fee
     may be charged which would be higher than the
     fee corresponding to the actual delivery time.
     In the case of a transcript which is subject to
     F.R.A.P. Rule 11 (b), the reduction in the fee
     may be waived by the clerk of the court of
     appeals for good cause shown.           Nothing
     contained herein should be construed as
     sanctioning untimely delivery, nor should this
     provision be considered the .only penalty that
     could be imposed by the court or circuit council
     on habitual offenders.
5.   Job Security

     That the Conference enunciate the policy
     already set forth in 28 U.S.C. 753 that court
     reporters are not em ployed by, nor do they form
     part of the personal staff of, an individual
     judge. They are employed by the court en banc
     which controls their assignments. In conformity
     with 28 U.S.C. 753(a) a reporter should continue
     to retain his employment at the pleasure of the
     court en banc, regardless of the death,
     resignation, or retirement of an individual judge
     or other reason creating a judgeship vacancy.
     In the period between such an occurence and
     the appointment of a new judge, the reporter
     should continue to serve other active judges,
     senior judges and magistrates. If the volume of
     work in the long run does not justify the
     retention of the full complement of reporters, a
     reduction should be accomplished through
     relocation, attrition, or by giving a reasonable
     notice for termination of the appointment.
                         11 





6.   Sick Leave
     That when a reporter is disabled because of a
     bona fide medical reason, substantiated by a
     doctor's certificate, a substitute reporter may
     be provided for the court on a contractual basis
     if other official reporters are not available to
     cover the proceedings; provided, however, that
     no reporter is to be maintained in a sick leave
     status for absences aggregating more than 30
     calendar days during any calendar year without
     the prior approval of the Director of the
     Administrative Office.

7.   Salaries of Reporters
     That the salaries of court reporters be adjusted
     to reflect the government-wide pay increases
     which were effective in October, 1981 and that
     pay increases of 5 percent should be given at 5,
     10, and 15 year intervals, rather than just one
     increase after 10 years of service, as set out in
     the schedule contained in the Committee's
     report.

8.   Electronic Sound Recording
     That the Conference approve the draft bill
     submitted by the Committee which would
     enable any district court, at its election, to
     utilize electronic sound recording or other
     technologically feasible methods as the
     exclusive means of creating an official record,
     and would authorize the use of contract
     reporting    services     whenever    improved
     effectiveness and efficiency is demonstrated.

9.   Reporters for Senior Judges

     That reporting services for senior judges are to
     be provided through a combination of official
     employees and contract reporting services.
     Each district court plan should allocate the
     official reporters in a manner which will best
     meet its actual court reporting needs,
     regardless of whether the services are for
                               12 



          active judges, senior judges, or other judicial
          officials. If the num ber of court reporters
          required exceeds the ratio of one reporter per
          active judge, the district court must obtain the
          concurrence of its judicial council to seek the
          allocation of additional reporters.         Any
          additional swing reporters will be authorized in
          such numbers as the Judicial Conference deems
          appropriate, including fully or less-than-fully
          salaried positions and/or combination positions
          if in the public interest. This policy will
          become effective one year after the date of its
          adoption. Until that time no court will lose
          court reporters currently assigned to it.

          The Director of the Administrative Office will
          continue to approve emergency appointments as
          authorized by law not to exceed a three-month
          period, in order to give the judicial councils
          time to review district court plans and the
          Judicial   Conference      time   to  consider
          authorizing additional personnel.
       Judge Hunter discussed briefly the reasons for each of
the above nine recommendations in amplification of
explanations given in the Committee report.        After full
discussion the Conference approved the recommendations of
the Committee except the recommendations on salaries which
were referred to the Committee for further consideration.
The draft bill to authorize the use of electronic sound
recording was amended to require the recording of all
proceedings in open court "except oral argument."
       The Conference also requested the Committee to
consider the question of annual leave for court reporters and
whether the Conference should forbid reporters to engage in
outside reporting work.

                  CIVIL CASE MANAGEMENT
       The General Accounting Office's report to the Congress
in February 1981 on the management of the courts
recommended that the Judicial Conference encourage the
district courts to use their clerks offices more appropr'iately in
the administration of the courts, particularly for case
management and docket control. Judge Hunter informed the
                                13 




Conference that the staff of the Administrative Office had
conducted a survey among the clerks of the distr-ict courts to
determine the level of case management within each court and
to identify policies, procedures and local rules effective in
reducing or eliminating civil case backlogs.          Using this
information the staff of the Administrative Office thereafter
made presentations to the clerks of district courts and circuit
executives in five circuits and to circuit and district judges in
two other circuits outlining effective case management
procedures and recommending policies and local rules which
the court should consider adopting to improve case
management.       The Committee!s analysis of the case
management information compiled by the Administrative
Office resulted in the following suggested guidelines for
obtaining efficient case management:

    A. 	   Establish time frames for various stages of
           civil litigation and assure there is always a
           pending action or activity with a deadline;
    B. 	   Establish a monitoring system in the clerks
           office to insure that cases not litigated
           according to their time frames are noted and
           appropriate action is taken by the court, (for
           example, dismissing cases for lack of
           prosecution), and that those cases being
           pursued proceed timely to the next phase;
    C. 	 Adopt local rules setting forth expected time 

         frames, impose sanctions for noncompliance, 

         and set out procedures and responsibility for 

         action; 

    D. 	   Prepare statistics and other information for 

           the court so that problem areas can be 

           identified and appropriate action can be 

           taken. 


    The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, took the following action:
    1. 	   Requested the district courts to develop and 

           establish an efficient case management 

           system based on the utilization of the clerk!s 

           office to centralize case management and 

           docket control, taking into consideration the 

           foregoing suggested guidelines. 

                               14 





    2. 	   Requested the judicial council of each circuit
           to broaden its role in improving the
           administration of justice by taking action to
           assist in the establishment of effective case
           management in all courts within its circuit.
    3. 	   Directed the Administrative Office to
           continue to study the information available
           on case management practices and the rules
           in effect; to comply with court requests to
           make presentations on appropriate guidelines
           for establishing and developing better case
           management; and to provide the courts with
           a compendium of the most ·effective means
           of eliminating excessive backlogs of cases
           and assuring the prompt processing of civil
           litigation.

             UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
       Judge Hunter advised the Conference that the Attorney
General's task force had completed a draft report on court
security which includes recommendations for developing a
comprehensive security system for the Federal Judiciary and
sets out criteria and guidelines for determining when and what
services the Marshals Service should provide. The Committee
is monitoring these developments and will report further to the
Conference. Judge Hunter also stated that the National
Conference of Federal Trial Judges had recommended the
transfer of the United States Marshals Service from the
Department of Justice to the Federal Judiciary with a
limitation on the Marshals law enforcement authority to that
necessary to carry out court related duties. The Committee
concluded that law enforcement of whatever nature is the
responsibility of the Executive Branch of government and
therefore rejected the recommendation.

       The Committee also considered whether the responsibil­
ity for holding cells in court facilities which are used by
marshals to carry out their custodial duties, should be the
responsibility of the United States Marshals Service or the
Judiciary. Since holding cells are used by the marshals to
assist in carrying out their law enforcement functions in
maintaining custody of criminal defendants, the Committee
recommended that the Conference adopt the position that the
                               15 




Marshals Service is responsible for holding cells, recogmzmg
that the Judiciary must coordinate with the Marshals Service
for space acquisition and alteration, so that the Marshals
Service can determine and plan for the installation of
necessary holding cells. This recommendation was approved by
the Conference.


              COURT-ANNEXED ARBITRATION
       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed a report of the study conducted by
the Federal Judicial Center on the pilot court-annexed
arbitration program initiated in three district courts in 1978.
In addition the Committee received comments from the
Department of Justice and from the chief judges in two of the
three pilot districts, the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and
the Northern District of California.        Although the pilot
program has been terminated in the District of Connecticut,
reports from the other two districts indicate that it has had
modest success. In view of the recommendations contained in
the Federal Judicial Center report and the comments received
from Chief Judges Joseph S. Lord III, and Robert F. Peckham,
the Committee recommended that funds be requested so that
the pilot program can be continued in the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania and the Northern District of California. This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.


                PLACES OF HOLDING COURT
       S. 260, 97th Congress, is a bill to authorize Jackson as a
place of holding court in the District of Wyoming. Judge
Hunter advised the Conference that the bill had been approved
by the district court, the Judicial Council of the Tenth Circuit,
by a majority of the members of the Court Administration
Committee, and was finally approved by the Executive
Committee of the Conference. The appropriate Committees
of the Congress have been so informed.
                              16 




          BIENNIAL SURVEY OF JUDGESHIP NEEDS

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Subcommittee on Judicial Statistics had completed a
preliminary analysis of judgeship requirements in the district
courts and in the courts of appeals and had transmitted its
recommendations to the chief judge in each circuit requesting
that the circuit council review the judgeship needs of the
courts within the circuit and make its recommendation to the
Subcommittee.      Each court will have an opportunity to
comment on the Subcommittee's analysis and provide
additional supporting materials. The Subcommittee will meet
in May 1982 to formulate its final recommendations.

           SALARIES OF ARTICLE I JUDGES AND 

             SUPPORTING JUDICIAL OFFICERS 


        The Conference in September 1981, Conf. Rept. p. 72,
agreed with the Committee's conclusion that it would be
desirable for the Conference to establish a comprehensive
arrangement of basic salary levels for supporting judicial
officers, including the salaries of Article I judges in the
Judiciary, and directed the Administrative Office to draft
appropriate legislation.       After reviewing its previous
recommendation the Committee determined, however, that it
would not be appropriate to create special salary
classifications with fixed salary ceilings which would have to
be amended from time to time by legislation. The Committee
proposed that, with certain exceptions, the Director of the
Administrative Office be given the authority to fix the salaries
of all Article I judges and other supporting judicial officers,
subject of course to the supervision and direction of the
Judicial Conference. The salaries of the Directors of the
Administrative Office and of the Federal Judicial Center and
the salary of the Deputy Director of the Administrative Office
would continue to be fixed by statute as at present. The
Conference approved this recommendation with an amendment
to limit salaries payable thereunder to 85 percent of the salary
of a district judge, and authorized the Director of the
Administrative Office to prepare the necessary legislation in
accordance with the Committee's report and transmit it to the
Congress.
                              17



               RETIREMENT OF ARTICLE I JUDGES

       The Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on
Courts, Civil Liberties, and the Administration of Justice had
requested clarification of the Conference position regarding
the retirement of bankruptcy judges.             Previously the
Conference had recommended that bankruptcy judges serving
in an Article I status should receive Article I retirement
benefits; that bankruptcy judges reappointed to serve after
April 1, 1984 should be permitted to credit their years of
service during the transition period toward their Article I
retirement; and that bankruptcy judges not appointed to serve
after April 1, 1984, should be entitled to retire only under the
existing provisions of the Civil Service Retirement Act. (Conf.
Rept. Mar. 1980, p. 31.)

       It was the view of the Committee that service as a
bankruptcy judge during the transition period should be
credited for retirement purposes on the same basis as service
in Article I status and the Conference agreed, provided that
the amount of any resulting annuity does not exceed the salary
received at the time the individual relinquishes office.

       The Committee further recommended that 28 U.S.C.
373, the statute pertaining to the retirement of an Article I
judge, be amended to harmonize with the terms of appointment
for bankruptcy judges.           Specifically the Committee
recommended that the right to receive an annuity vest after
eight years of service, except that the right to retire for
disability should vest after five years of service; that a full
annuity be payable after fourteen years of service; and that a
lesser annuity be payable in the ratio that the number of years
of service bears to fourteen. The Conference approved these
recommendations, but further recommended that an annuity,
other than a disability annuity, commence at age 65, instead of
age 55 as recommended by the Committee; that United States
magistrates be permitted to elect retirement benefits under
Section 373; and that judges currently receiving annuities
under Section 373 be permitted to retain these annuities, or
elect to receive an annuity under the amended section. The
Conference authorized the preparation of draft legislation in
accordance with the Committee's report and recommendations,
as modified above, and its submission to the Congress. The
draft bill should also include an amendment to Section 371 to
authorize a graduated scale of eligibility for retirement or
resignation for Article III judges beginning at age 65 with 15
years of service. The Conference directed that any problems
  374-6:9 0 - 82
                              18 




with the legislation be referred to the Executive Committee of
the Conference.


               PRISONER CIVIL RIGHTS CASES

        Judge Hunter called attention to the January 1980
publication of the Federal Judicial Center entitled
If Recommended Procedures for Handling Prisoner Civil Rights

Cases in the Federal Courtslf. This oft-cited report, the
 product of a Federal Judicial Center Committee under the
chairmanship of Judge Ruggero J. Aldisert, has never been
specifically recognized by the Conference.         Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference formally
recognized the significance of this report and urged the
district courts to implement the procedures and the suggested
forms contained therein.

          NATIONAL COURT OF APPEALS AND 

               INTERCIRCUIT TRIBUNAL 

      OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS OF APPEALS 


       H.R. 4762, 97th Congress, would create an intercircuit
tribunal of the United States courts of appeals composed of not
less than 14 nor more than 22 circuit judges in regular active
service or senior status who would be assigned to serve on the
tribunal for a period of five years. The Chief Justice would
designate the judges to serve on the court and would designate
one of the judges to serve as the presiding judge. Service on
the court would be in addition to the regular duties of the
assigned judges.

       The intercircuit tribunal would have jurisdiction over
cases referred to it by the Supreme Court. Referral would be
made either after the Supreme Court denies certiorari or
before it notes probable jurisdiction of an appeal. The tribunal
could deny a review of any case referred to it, unless the
Supreme Court directs that it be heard. All decisions of the
tribunal would be binding on all courts of the United States and
with respect to questions arising under the Constitution, laws,
or treaties of the United States, on all other courts. Any case
decided by the tribunal could be further reviewed by., the
Supreme Court by writ of certiorari granted upon the petition
of any party to any case before or after rendition of judgment
or decree. The intercircuit tribunal is sunsetted after five
years. Due to the court's temporary nature there are report­
back provisions so that Congress can determine whether the
tribunal should be continued.
                              19 




       S. 1529, 97th Congress, would establish a permanent
National Court of Appeals consisting of a judge and eight
associate judges to be appointed by the President, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate, to serve on the same
basis and at the same salaries as judges of the courts of
appeals. The jurisdiction of the court would be the same as
that of the intercircuit tribunal.
       The Conference voted to express no position on the
question of whether a new court or tribunal should be created
at this time ·and remanded the question to the Committee for
further study. The Chief Justice abstained from taking any
part in the discussion of these proposals.
             DIVISIONAL VENUE IN CIVIL CASES
       Judge Hunter stated that the Committee had considered
a proposal, recently put forward in the Congress as an
amendment to pending legislation but then withdrawn, to
repeal 28 U.S.C. 1393 which provides for divisional venue in
civil cases. The Committee noted that divisional venue in
criminal cases was abolished in 1966 as a result of an
amendment to Rule 18, Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
and that no apparent harm to litigants, or to the fair and
expeditious administration of justice, resulted. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
the repeal of the divisional venue statute, 28 U.S.C. 1393, and
directed that an appropriate bill be drafted and transmitted to
the Congress.
       INTERIM DESIGNATION OF A UNITED STATES
         ATTORNEY OR UNITED STATES MARSHAL
       S. 1921, 97th Congress, would amend 28 U.S.C. 546 and
565 to authorize the Attorney General to appoint an interim
United States attorney or interim United States marshal when
there is a vacancy in either office, in lieu of an appointment by
the United States district court. This change provides for the
appointment of an Executive Branch officer by a senior
representative of the Executive Branch which is more in
accord with the doctrine of separation of powers than the
present system. Upon the recommendation of the Committee
the Conference approved S. 1921.
                              20 




      NATIONAL JUDICIAL STUDY COMMISSION AND
             A STATE JUSTICE INSTITUTE

       S. 675, 97th Congress, would establish a Federal
Jurisdiction and Review Commission to make a two-year study
of the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States and of the
several states, and to make recommendations to the President
and Congress on needed revisions, if any, in related provisions
of the Constitution and laws of the United States. S. 675 is
identical to S. 3123, 96th Congress. In March 1981, Conf.
Rept. p. 21, the Conference expressed its approval of the
objective to be served by S. 3123, namely, a general review of
the relationship between Federal and State court jurisdictions.

       S. 1530, 97th Congress, would create a temporary
"Federal Courts Study Commission" to draft a long-range plan
for the future of the Judiciary and to make recommendations
to a permanent "Federal Courts Advisory Council on the
Future of the Judiciary." The Council would review the
commission's report and make recommendations to the
President and the Congress. Thereafter the Council would: (1)
oversee Federal court jurisdiction review and the proposed
revisions; (2) stimulate the evaluation of and provide an
eventual solution to problems currently facing the courts; (3)
review the findings of the legislative study group; (4) order,
receive, and review reports from all dispute resolving bodies,
including courts, administrative agencies, and Federal justice
centers; and (5) afford continuity and uniformity to the ongoing
study of the Judiciary.

       The Committee recommended that the Conference
reaffirm its general approval of the objectives of S. 675, noting
that the creation of a temporary Commission to study the
jurisdiction of State and Federal courts is desirable. In this
regard the Committee also endorsed the creation of a
temporary Federal Court Study Commission as envisioned in
S. 1530.    Nonetheless, the Committee believed that the
establishment of a permanent Advisory Council is unnecessary
at this time and therefore should be opposed. Further, the
Committee noted that the creation of any study commission
should not interfere with the enactment of jurisdictional
changes previously recommended by the Conference, such as
the abolition of diversity of citizenship jurisidiction.

      S. 537 and H. R. 2407, 97th Congress, are companion
measures to aid state and local governments in strengthening
and improving their justice systems through the creation of a
                              21 




State Justice Institute. The Institute would be a private, non­
profit corporation governed by a board of directors consisting
of six judges and one State court administrator appointed by
the President from a list of nominees submitted by the
Conference of State Chief Justices. In addition the President
would appoint four members from the private sector. Although
the Institute would be a separate private corporation, its staff
would be employees of the United States for various personnel
purposes.    The Institute would be authorized to accept
nonfederal funds and would be granted federal funding for
three years. Federal funds, however, could not be used for
operational purposes, and matching state funds in a smaller
amount than Federal contributions would be required.

        It was the view of the Committee that the creation of
an organization to foster improvements in state court systems
is desirable and in the long run would be beneficial to the
Federal courts. It therefore recommended the creation of a
State Justice Institute, and the Conference approved provisions
in S. 537 and H.R. 2407 which would achieve that objective.

       In its examination of the provisions in all these .bills·
authorizing studies of the allocation of jurisdiction between
Federal and State courts, the Committee noted that, while the
State Court Institute bill's provisions would achieve the study
objectives, the Committee preferred the Commission
membership approaches in S. 675 and S. 1530, because they
would guarantee a better ratio of Federal judicial participation
than does the State Justice Institute proposal. Because of the
multiplicity of issues presented by several aspects of S. 675
and S. 1530, however, Judge Hunter informed the Conference
that his Committee would prefer to review them further at its
next meeting. The Conference approved that course of action,
provided that, if the need arises, the Chairman of the
Committee is authorized to present tentative views to the
Executive Committee of the Conference for its consideration.


                COMMrITEE ON THE BUDGET

      Judge Charles Clark, Chairman of the Committee on
the Budget, submitted the Committee's report.
                               22


       APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1982
       Judge Clark informed the Conference that the
Appropriations Bill for the Judiciary for the Fiscal Year 1982
was approved by the House of Representatives but remains to
be acted on in the Senate. The Judiciary had requested a total
of $728,941,000 for 1982 and the House-passed bill authorized
$701,800,000, which was later reduced by the Senate
Appropriations Committee to $697,000,000.         This is the
spending limit for the current fiscal year.
       The Administrative Office has also transmitted to
Congress a request for a supplemental appropriation in the
amount of $24,143,000 for the Fiscal Year 1982 to cover the
4.8 percent salary increase authorized last October. In
addition, a supplemental request to cover a projected
deficiency of $2,350,000 in the appropriation for Defender
Services has been submitted to the Congress.

          AMENDMENTS TO THE BUDGET REQUEST 

              FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1983 

       Filings of civil and 'criminal cases in the district courts
are rising much more rapidly than 'originally projected. To
manage this increased workload the Budget Committee has
requested an amendment to the 1983 budget request in the
amount of $3,605,000 for an additional 133 deputy clerk
positions. The Committee has also requested that contingency
funds be added to the request for bankruptcy court
appropriations in the amount of $2,523,000 for 39 deputy clerk
estate administrator positions in the event that the United
States trustee program in the pilot districts is not funded by
the Department of Justice, and an additional $1,599,000 to
convert 3 part-time magistrate positions to full-time status
and to provide 25 additional legal assistants to magistrates,
items that are being recommended to the Conference at this
session. Judge Clark also informed the Conference that the
1983 appropriation request to cover fees of jurors and
commissioners was reduced from $51,100,000 to $48,000,000
because of an unexpected carry forward from 1981 and
reductions in mileage allowances.
                              23



                JUDICIAL ETmCS COMMITTEE

        Judge Edward A. Tamm, Chairman of the statutory
Judicial Ethics Committee, presented the Committee's
report.


           REPORTING FORM AND INSTRUCTIONS

        In accordance with Sec. 303{c) of the Ethics in
Government Act of 1978 the Conference approved the revised
financial disclosure report form and instructions submitted by
the Committee. The Director of the Administrative Office
was authorized to have the new forms and instructions printed
and distributed promptly to those individuals who are required
to file annual reports by May 15, 1982.

                 SOCIAL SECURITY INCOME

       The Committee had previously determined that Social
Security income should be reported on the financial disclosure
statement. Last year the instructions accompanying the report
form were amended to so indicate. Judge Tamm stated that
upon reconsideration the Committee now believes that Social
Security income, which is received from the Government, need
not be reported. Furthermore, the Committee has been
advised that the reporting of Social Security income is not
required by the Executive Branch of the Government.
Accordingly,. the requirement of reporting Social Security
income has been deleted from the instructions.

               AMENDMENTS TO THE ETHICS 

                  IN GOVERNMENT ACT 


       The Ethics in Government Act of 1978 requires the
Judicial Ethics Committee, with .the approval of the Judicial
Conference, to "submit to the Congress and the President
recommendations for legislative revision of this title." Judge
Tamm stated that the Committee had carefully reviewed the
Act and had voted to recommend these changes: (l) an
amendment to Sec. 302{a){S) to make it clear that the
reporting period for reporting items under this subdivision is
the year of the report and not the current calendar year, and a
further amendment to strike the reference in the subdivision to
positions held in "political" entities; (2) an amendment to Sec.
                              24 




302(e)(l), relating to the disclosure of the income, assets and
gifts received by a spouse or dependent child, to eliminate the
requirement of reporting "category of value" and to make it
clear that gifts or reimbursements to a dependent child must
also be reported; (3) an amendment to Sec. 308(10), relating to
the definition of a "judicial employee", to give the Judicial
Ethics Committee a degree of flexibility in determining which
employees, other than those authorized to perform
adjudicatory functions, must file financial disclosure
statements; and (4) the repeal of Sec. 302(g) pertaining to the
reporting of "political campaign funds".             Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
these proposed amendments to the statute and authorized the
Director of the Administrative Office to draft a bill for
prompt submission to the Congress.


       FEES FOR COPIES OF DISCLOSURFr REPORTS

      Judge Tamm stated that the Committee has determined
that the cost of furnishing copies of financial disclosure
statements, including the cost of postage, exceeds the fee of
25 cents per page previously recommended by the Committee
and approved by the Conference, Conf. Rept., March 1979, p.
22.    Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference increased the copy fee from 25 cents per page to
50 cents per page.


    REVIEW OF FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS
       In the last three years the review of financial disclosure
statements has been conducted entirely by the judges who are
members of the Committee.            The work has been time­
consuming. Judge Tamm stated that the Committee has now
decided to compare current reports with those filed in prior
years and for this reason the Committee will require staff
assistance. Accordingly, the Committee has called upon the
Director of the Administrative Office to provide the
Committee with temporary staff assistance during the period
April 15 to June 15, 1982 to conduct, on a pilot or trial basiS,
the initial review of all financial disclosure statements for the
calendar year 1981 in order that the initial, confidential review
will be conducted under uniform standards and will include
comparisons with the reports filed for prior years. The
financial disclosure statements together with notations of any
deficiencies and recommendations will then be sent to
                              25 



Committee members for further review and recommendations
for action. At its next meeting the Committee will review this
procedure and report further to the Conference.

      ADVISORY COMMITl'EB ON CODES OF CONDUCT

      Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the
Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct, presented the
Com mittee's report.

                 ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE
       Judge Markey informed the Conference that since its
last report the Committee has received 16 inquiries from
persons subject to the various Codes of Conduct and has issued
nine advisory responses. In addition to the three opinions
referred to in its last report, the Committee has published
three other opinions relating to the disqualification of a judge
in a class action, disqualification after oral argument, and the
use of the title "Judgell by former judges in connection with
proceedings before Federal courts.

               SENIOR JUDGES AS ARBITRATORS
       Judge Markey also informed the Conference that the
Committee had been requested to consider whether Canon 5E
would preclude senior judges from acting as arbitrators.
Although an appropriate arbitration program could assist in
meeting at least a part of the problem presented by congested
court dockets, the Committee concluded that Canon 5E would
indeed preclude a Federal judge from arbitrating a dispute not
subject to Federal court jurisdiction. After full discussion the
Conference requested the Chief Justice to appoint a
com mittee to study and report back on the concept of senior
judges serving as arbitrators and the details of a program
implementing that concept.




  374-619 0 - 82 - 5
                              26


      COMMnTEEON THEADWNmTRAnON OF THE
              FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

      The report of the Committee on the Federal
Magistrates System was presented by the Chairman, Judge
Otto R. Skopil, Jr.


          SALARIES OF PART-TIME MAGISTRATES
       The Federal Magistrates Act, 28 U.S.C. 634(a),
authorizes the Judicial Conference to set the salaries of part­
time magistrate positions in amounts up to one-half the
maximum salary payable to full-time magistrates. Under this
authority the Conference established a system of 15 standard
salary levels for part-time magistrates ranging from $900 per
annum to $26,750 per annum. Effective January 1, 1982 the
salary of a full-time magistrate was increased to $58,500 per
annum. The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, established a new standard salary level of $29,250
for part-time magistrates. The Conference also approved the
recommendation of the Committee that the 4.8 percent
"comparability" salary increase granted to government
employees generally on October 1, 1981 not be granted across
the board to all part-time magistrates. The Conference agreed
that the salaries for part-time positions should be set in
accordance with the normal survey process.

           CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS
       After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts and the judicial councils of the
circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
magistrate positions.     Unless otherwise indicated, these
changes are to become effective when appropriated funds are
available. The salaries of full-time magistrate positions are to
be determined in accordance with the salary plan previously
adopted by the Conference.
                               27



                         FIRST CIRCUIT
Maine
    (1) 	 Converted    the part-time magistrate position at
           Portland to a full-time magistrate position.

Massachusetts

    (1) 	 Continued     the part-time magistrate position at
           Springfield for an additional four-year term.

    (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Springfield from $6,400 to $8,200 per
          annum.
    (3) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at
          New Bedford and Pittsfield.
Rhode Island

   (1) 	   Authorized the clerk of court at Providence to
           perform the duties of a part-time magistrate for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized
           aggregate salary of JSP-16.
                       SECOND CIRCUIT
Northern District of New York
   (1) 	   Authorized the clerk of court at Albany to continue
           to perform the duties of a part-time magistrate after
           the appointment of a full-time magistrate at Albany.
   (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
         Champlain/Plattsburgh for an additional four-year
         term at the currently authorized salary of $6,400 per
         annum.

   (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
         Watertown for an additional four-year term at the
         currently authorized salary of $1,800 per annum.
                               28 



Western District of New York
    (1) 	 Continued    the part-time magistrate position at
           Rochester for an additional four-year term at the
           currently authorized salary of $2,700 per annum.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
          Elmira and Niagara Falls for additional four-year
          terms at the currently authorized salary of $900 per
          annum each.

                        THIRD CIRCUIT
Western District of Pennsylvania

    (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Erie
           for an additional four-year term at the currently
           authorized salary of $10,000 per annum.
Virgin Islands
    (1) 	 Converted    the combination bankruptcy judge­
           magistrate position at Christiansted to a part-time
           magistrate position at a salary of $20,300 per annum.
                       FOURTH CIRCUIT
Maryland
    (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
           position at Prince.Georges County (Hyattsville) from
           $17,900 to $29,250 per annum.
    (2) 	 Changed the official location of the part-time
          magistrate position at Prince Georges County
          (Hyattsville) to Upper Marlboro.
    (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Hagerstown for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $6,400 per annum.
    (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Salisbury for an additional four-year term.
    (5) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Salisbury from $1,800 to $3,600 per
          annum.
                               29 




Eastern District of North Carolina
    (I) 	 Converted   the part-time magistrate position at
          Fayetteville to a full-time position.

    (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Fayetteville from $26,750 to $29,250 per
          annum pending conversion of the position to full-time
          status.
South Carolina
    (1) 	 Continued  the !?art-time magistrate position at
         Florence for an additional four-year term at the
         currently authorized salary of $3,600 per annum.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Aiken
          for an additional four-year term at the currently
          authorized salary of $900 per annum.
Eastern District of Virginia
    (I) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at
         Richmond for an additional eight-year term.
                        FIFTH CIRCUIT
Middle District of Louisiana
    (I) 	 Converted  the combination bankruptcy judge­
         magistrate position at Baton Rouge to a part-time
         magistrate position at a salary of $10,000 per annum.
Eastern District of Texas

    (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
         Texarkana for an additional four-year term.

    (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Texarkana from $1,800 to $2,700 per
          annum.
Western District of Texas

    (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at E1
         Paso to a full-time magistrate position.
                                30 




    (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at El Paso from $26,750 to $29,250 per
          annum pending conversion of the position to full-time
          status.

    (3) 	 Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Midland/Odessa from $15,500 to $6,400
          per annum, effective upon the appointment of the
          new full-time magistrate at El Paso.

                         SIXTH CIRCUIT
Middle District of Tennessee

    0) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
         Columbia for an additional four-year term at the
         currently authorized salary of $4,500 per annum.
                       SEVENTH CIRCUIT
Central District of lllinois
    0) 	 Authorized the clerk of court at Peoria to perform
         the duties of a part-time magistrate for an additional
         four-year term without additional compensation for
         magistrate duties.

Southern District of Indiana

    0) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at New
          Albany for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $1,800 per annum.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Terre
          Haute for an additional four-year term.

    (3) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Terre Haute from $1,800 to $4,500 per
          annum.

Western District of Wisconsin

    (I) 	 Continued the    part-time magistrate position at
          Wausau for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.
                                 31 




     (2) 	 Authorized the bankruptcy judge at Eau Claire to
           perform the duties of a part-time- magistrate for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized
           salary of $900 per annum for magistrate duties.

                          EIGHTH CIRCUIT
 Southern District of Iowa

     (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Council Bluffs for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $6,400 per annum.
     (2) 	 Increased the salarl{ of the part-time magistrate
           position at Burlington from $2,700 to $3,600 per
           annum•

. Eastern District of Missouri

     (1) 	 Continued     the part-time magistrate position at
             Hannibal for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.

Nebraska
     (l) 	 Continued the part-time       magistrate positions at
             Gering/Scottsbluff and North Platte for additional
             four-year terms at the currently authorized salary of
             $900 per annum each.
North Dakota
     (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Bismarck for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $6,400 per annum.

     (2)' 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
            Grand Forks, Minot and Minnewaukan/Devils Lake for
            additional four-year terms at the currently
            authorized salary of $2,700 per annum each.

                          NINTH CIRCUIT
Alaska

     0) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Fairbanks for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $20,300 per annum.
                                 32 




Arizona

    (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Grand
            Canyon National Park for an additional four-year
            term at the currently authorized salary of $20,300
            per annum.

    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Yuma
          for an additional four-year term at the currently
          authorized salary of $15,500 per annum.

    (3) 	 Authorized the appointment of a new part-time
          magistrate position at Tucson at a salary of $23,100
          per annum.

    (4) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at
          Douglas/Bisbee and Nogales, effective upon the
          appointment of the new part-time magistrate at
          Tucson.

    (5) 	 Authorized the part-time magistrate at Page to
          exercise jurisdiction in the District of Utah in
          accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 631 (a).
Eastern District of California
    (1) 	   Authorized a part-time magistrate position at
            Sacramento at a salary of $17,900 per annum.

    (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
          Modesto.

    (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at South
          Lake Tahoe for an additional four-year term.
    (4) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at South Lake Tahoe from $1,800 to $6,400
          per annum.
    (5) 	 Increased the salary of the full-time magistrate
          position at Yosemite National Park from $34,250 to
          $35,894 per annum.
                               33 




Southern District of California
    (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
            position at San Diego from $26,750 to $29,250 per
            annum pending conversion of the position to full-time
            status.
Montana

    (1) 	 Converted the         part-time magistrate position at
            Billings to a full-time magistrate position.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Great
          Falls for an additional four-year term.
    (3) 	 Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Great Falls from $15,500 to $8,200 per
          annum, effective upon the appointment of the full­
          time magistrate at Billings.
    (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Kalispell for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $4,500 per annum.

    (5) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Missoula for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $2,700 per annum.
    (6) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Helena for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $1,800 per annum.
    (7) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Cut
          Bank for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.
    (8) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Butte
          for an additional four-year term.

    (9) 	 Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Butte from $3,600 to $1,800 per annum,
          effective at the beginning of the new term.
  (I 0) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Wolf
            Point for an additional four-year term.
                               34



  (11) 	 Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate
         position at Wolf Point from $2,700 to $1,800 per
         annum, effective at the beginning of the new term.
  (12) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
         Miles City at the end of the current term.
Nevada

   (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
           position at Reno from $26,750 to $29,250 per annum
           pending conversion of the position to full-time status.
                        TENTH CIRCUIT

Colorado
   (1) 	 Continued     the part-time magistrate position at
           Colorado Springs for an additional four-year term at
           the currently authorized salary of $20,300 per annum.
   (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
         Cortez and Steamboat Springs/Craig for additional
         four-ye(lr terms at the currently authorized salary of
         $1,800 per annum each.
   (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
         Monte Vista for an additional four-year term.
   (4) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
         position at Monte Vista from $900 to $1,800 per
         annum.

   (5) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at
         Fort Collins and Lamar.

New Mexico
   (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Las
           Cruces for an additional four-year term.
   (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
         position at Las Cruces from $13,600 to $15,500 per
         annum.
                               35 




Wyoming
    (I) 	 Increased the salary of the full-time magistrate
          position at Yellowstone National Park from $29,000
          to $30,392 per annum.

                      ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
Northern District of Alabama
    (1) 	 Continued   the full-time magistrate position at
          Birmingham which is due to expire on October 13,
          1982 for an additional eight-year term.
Middle District of Alabama
    (l) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at
          Montgomery for an additional eight-year term.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Dothan for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $20,300 per annum.
    (3) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
          Opelika at the expiration of the current term.
Southern District of Alabama
    (l) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Selma
          for an additional four-year term at the currently
          authorized salary of $1,800 per annum.
Middle District of Florida
    0) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at
          Jacksonville which is due to expire on August 28,
          1983 for an additional eight-year term.
    (2) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at
          Orlando for an additional eight-year term.
    (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Fort
          Myers for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.
                               3.6 




Northern District of Georgia
    (0 	 Continued the     part-time magistrate position at
          Gainesville for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $6,400 per annum.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Rome
          for an additional four-year term.

    (3) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate·
          position at Rome from $11,800 to $26,750 per annum.

    (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Newnan/La Grange for an additional four-year term.
    (5) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Newnan/La Grange from $1,800 to $2,700
          per annum.
Middle District of Georgia

    (0 	 Authorized the part-time magistrate at Columbus to
         exercise jurisdiction in the Middle District of
         Alabama in accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 63l(a).

                LEGAL ASSISTANT POSITIONS
       Judge Skopil advised the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed requests for an additional 44 legal
assistant positions for United States magistrates, had approved
26 requests and had deferred action on the remaining 18
requests. The Committee advised the Conference that a
magistrate need not be authorized to try civil cases on consent
of the litigants under 28 U.S.C. 636(c) in order to qualify for a
legal assistant position as long as the magistrate otherwise
performs a full range and an appreciable volume of judicial
duties for the court under 28 U.S.C. 636(b).

      COMMm'EE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
              BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

       Judge Robert E. DeMascio, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System, presented the
Committee's report.
                               37 





        ARRANGEMENTS FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES
       The Conference upon the recommendation of the
Committee took the following action with respect to changes
in arrangements for bankrupty judges. These changes are to
become effective when appropriated funds are available.

                        SECOND CIRCUIT
Eastern District of New York

    (1) 	 Designated Westbury as the headquarters for the
            bankruptcy judges now located at Westbury and
            discontinued Hempstead as the headquarters and a
            place of holding bankruptcy court in the district.
    (2) 	 Designated Hauppauge in Suffolk County as an
          additional place of holding bankruptcy court for the
          bankruptcy judges in this district.
                      ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Northern District of Alabama
    (1) 	   Transferred the part-time bankruptcy judge position
            at Birmingham to Decatur and combined it with the
            existing part-time position at Decatur to increase
            that position to full-time status.

                BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATOR

       The Conference postponed for consideration at its next
session a proposal of the Committee to create the position of
bankruptcy administrator in the Federal Judiciary in the event
the United States trustee system is not funded by the
Congress, or is otherwise discontinued.


      COMMlTI'EE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                  PROBATION SYSTEM

     Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat, Chairman of the Committee on
the Administration of the Probation System, presented the
Committee's report.
                              38 




                  SENTENCING INSTITUTES

       The Conference in September 1981, Conf. Rept. p. 88,
approved the time, place, participants, and tentative agenda
for a joint sentencing institute for the judges of the Eighth and
Tenth Circuits to be held in the vicinity of the Medical Center
for Federal Prisoners at Springfield, Missouri, April 26-27,
1982. The Committee submitted the final agenda for the
Sentencing Institute which the Conference approved. The
Conference also approved the attendance at this Institute of
newly appointed district judges of the 5th, 6th, 7th, and 9th
Circuits who have not previously attended a sentencing
institute, subject to the availability of travel funds. The
Conference also authorized the Chairman of the Committee to
invite selected members and staff of the House and Senate
Judiciary Committees to attend the Institute.

       The Conference in September 1978, Conf. Rept. p. 73,
encouraged circuit judges to attend sentencing institutes.
Upon the recommendation of the Committee the Conference
reaffirmed its previous action and strongly encouraged both
circuit and district judges to attend future sentencing
institutes.

           COMMITTEE ON THE ADMmmTRAnON
                   OF THE CRIMINAL LAW

      Judge Alexander Harvey II, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Criminal Law, presented the
Committee's report.


                 CRIMINAL CODE REVISION

      Judge Harvey reported that the Committee had
reviewed S. 1630, H.R. 1647 and H.R. 4711, 97th Congress,
which are bills to revise the criminal code, and had re­
examined a number of positions taken by the Conference in the
past.

       At the Committee's suggestion the Conference
reaffirmed the following recommendations previously made to
the Congress regarding the provisions of a new Federal
criminal code:
                              39 




    (1) 	 That the code not include ancillary or "piggyback"
          jurisdiction over certain violent crimes occurring
          during the commission of a specified federal offense;
    (2) 	 That the Congress adopt the Conference's definitions
          of the terms "knowingly", intentionally", "recklessly"
          and "negligently";

    (3) 	 That the defenses of insanity, intoxication, mistake
          of law or fact, reliance upon official misstatement,
          duress, protection of persons and property, and
          renunciation be left to case law development and not
          be defined in the code;

    (4) 	 That the code not include the offense of "criminal
          solicitation"; and

    (5) 	 That the code include certain provisions of the Youth
          Corrections Act permitting a court to set aside the
          conviction of a youthful offender.

       The Conference also voted to oppose provisions in the
pending bills requiring the Attorney General to issue guidelines
governing the exercise of Federal jurisdiction when there is
concurrent state jurisdiction over a crime, requiring the court
to share its contempt powers with the prosecutor, and placing
a ceiling on the punishment a court may impose for criminal
contempt.

       The Conference also voted to recommend that the new
code become effective on January 1st following the fourth
year after its enactment, but it further recommended that any
amendments to the Criminal Justice Act of 1964, particularly
the increase in the rates of compensation payable to court­
appointed counsel, should become effective upon enactment.
The Committee was authorized to confer with the Committee
on the Implementation of the Criminal Justice Act to
determine a proper method of compensating guardians ad litem
appointed in criminal cases in which juveniles are defendants,
as would be authorized by the code. The Committee was also
authorized to reconsider, in light of the discussions in the
Conference, its proposed amendments to the draft bill on the
treatment of mentally incompetent persons, which had been
previously approved by the Conference.
                              40



              COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION 

                 OF THE JURY SYSTEM 


       Chief Judge C. Clyde Atkins, Chairman of the
Committee on the Operation of the Jury System, presented the
report of the Committee.


      JURY TRIALS IN LAND CONDEMNATION CASES
       The Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee had
requested the views of the Conference on H.R. 3691, 97th
Congress, which is a bill to amend Ru1e 71A(h}, Federal Ru1es
of Civil Procedure, to restore the right to a jury trial in
certain cases involving the exercise by the United States of the
power of eminent domain. The bill wou1d grant an absolute
right to a trial by jury in land condemnation cases, thus
removing the court1s discretion to appoint a special commission
to consider the question of just compensation. The Committee
pointed out that the use of commissions in land cases has
brought consistency in the valuation of parcels of land in the
same geographical area, has obviated the difficu1ty and
expense of having a jury view the property in question, and has
minimized the increasing difficu1 ty juries have in determining
the valuation of air rights and other sophisticated forms of
property rights. Upon the recommendation of the Committee,
the Conference voted to express its opposition to the
enactment of H.R. 3691.

            WITNESSES BEFORE GRAND JURIES
       H.R. 4272, 97th Congress, is a bill to provide for the
assistance of counsel for witnesses appearing before grand
juries and to authorize the court to appoint and compensate
counsel for any person subpoenaed to appear before a grand
jury who is financially unable to obtain counsel. The bill wou1d
guarantee the assistance of counsel "during any time that such
person is being questioned in the presence of" the grand jury.
It would preclude the grand jury from receiving evidence or
hearing testimony from any subpoenaed person who is
financially unable to obtain counsel and who did not waive
counsel, unless counsel was appointed for such person. The
Committee was concerned that allowing attorneys to be
present in the grand jury room wou1d impede the investigative
process of the grand jury, making it more closely resemble an
adversary proceeding contrary to the essential nature and
                              41 




historical traditions of the grand jury system. The presence of
attorneys would also make it more difficult to maintain the
secrecy of the proceedings, a concern recently expressed by
the General Accounting Office. Upon the recommendation of
the Committee the Conference adopted the following
resolution:


         The Judicial Conference resolves and
         recommends to the Congress in opposition to
         H.R. 4272, a bill to amend Title 18, United
         States Code, and which provides in part that
         counsel shall be allowed to be present in the
         grand jury room during its sessions. Among
         the serious concerns raised by this bill are (I)
         that the investigative work of the grand jury
         would be seriously impaired by permitting
         this adversary practice, and (2) that it would
         exacerbate the substantial existing problems
         which inhere in the representation by the
         same attorney of multiple witnesses or
         targets before a grand jury. It is the position
         of the Conference that the interests of
         witnesses are substantially served by the
         present practice of permitting a witness to
         confer with counsel outside of the grand jury
         room as necessary during its sessions.

                 VOIR DIRE EXAMINATION
       S. 1532, 97th Congress, is a bill to amend Rule 24(a),
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, and Rule 47(a), Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure, to permit the parties or their
attorneys to conduct the voir dire examination of prospective
petit jurors. In the past the Conference has consistently
expressed its opposition to this legislation, and Judge Atkins
informed the Conference that its previously expressed views
had already been communicated to the Senate Judiciary
Committee. Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference expressed its disapproval of S. 1532.


         PERIODIC REPORTING -JURY SELECTION

      The Conference in March 1975, Conf. Rept. p. 14,
approved the recommendations of the Committee requiring the
                              42 




district courts upon the refilling of jury wheels to make a
random sample of returned questionnaires to determine
whether the jury wheels comply with the randomness and
nondiscrimination provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1861 and 1862 and to
report the results to the Administrative Office. Judge Atkins
stated that it was the view of the Committee that the clerks
of the district courts should continue to collect the statistical
information previously required, but that it is no longer
necessary to report such information to the Administrative
Office. The responsibilty for complying with the requirements
of the Jury Act would remain with the district court, and the
judicial councils of the circuits should exercise oversight
responsibility. The Conference recommitted this proposal with
the request that the Committee consider whether a clerk of
the district court can discharge the court's responsibility under
the Jury Act.


           SECURITY OF JUROR DELIBERATIONS
       Judge Atkins stated that the Committee has been
concerned that any future reduction in the resources of the
United States Marshals Service for court security may imperil
the availability of deputy marshals to tend upon juries,
particularly when they are deliberating in civil cases. Upon
the recommendation of the Committee the Conference
adopted the following resolution:
         The Judicial Conference has received and
         concurs in the expressions of concern by
         United States district judges that the
         personal security of jurors serving in their
         courts, as well as the security of jury
         deliberations, must not be compromised
         during this time of constricted resources for
         court security generally.

       COMMrrTEE ON INTERCmCUrr ASSIGNMENTS

       The written report of the Committee on Intercircuit
Assignments, submitted by the Chairman, Judge George L.
Hart, Jr., was received by the Conference.

      The report indicated that during the period August 15,
1981 to February 16, 1982 the Committee recommended 109
assignments to be undertaken by 63 judges. Of this number 14
                              43 



were senior circuit judges, 2 were active circuit judges, 30
were senior district judges, 1 was an active district judge, 5
were active judges of the Court of Customs and Patent
Appeals, 1 was a senior judge of the Court of Claims, 7 were
active judges of the Court of Claims, 2 were active judges of
the Court of International Trade, and 1 was a retired justice of
the Supreme Court.

       Forty-four judges undertook 67 assignments to the
courts of appeals and 23 judges undertook 30 assignments to
the district courts. In addition the 5 active judges of the Court
of Customs and Patent Appeals were assigned to serve on the
Court of Claims and the 7 active judges of the Court of Claims
were assigned to serve on the Court of Customs and Patent
Appeals.

                COMMrrTEE TO IMPLEMENT 

                THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT 


      Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the Commi.ttee
to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented the report of
the Committee.

              APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS
        Judge MacBride submitted to the Conference a
summary report on appointments and payments under the
Criminal Justice Act for the fiscal year ending Sept~mber
30th, 1981. The report indicated that Congress appropriated
$24,000,000 for "defender services" during the fiscal year and
that an unobligated balance of approximately $6,000,000 had
been carried forward from the fiscal year 1980 making a total
of $30,000,000 available for obligations during the fiscal year
1981. Projected obligations for the year are $28,000,000,
leaving an estimated balance of $2,000,000 to carry forward
into the fiscal year 1982. During the year approximately
43,500 persons were represented under the Criminal Justice
Act, compared to 43,060 persons represented during the fiscal
year 1980, an increase of 1 percent. Of these persons, Federal
Public and Community Defender Organizations represented
22,526 or 51.8 percent of the total representations compared
to 49.7 percent in the fiscal year 1980 and 48.1 percent in the
fiscal year 1979.
                               44


                    BUDGET REQUESTS ­
                FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS 


       The Conference at its last session deferred action on
the budget request for the Federal Public Defender Office for
the Western District of Washington for the fiscal year 1983.
Upon the recommendation of the Committee the Conference
approved a request in the amount of $357,526 for the Federal
Public Defender Office in that district for the fiscal year 1983.
       Judge MacBride stated that the District of Hawaii had
amended its plan for the implementation of the Criminal
Justice Act to provide for a Federal Public Defender
Organization and that the Judicial Council of the Ninth Circuit
had approved the amended plan. The authorized staff for this
office will include one full-time attorney in addition to the
Federal Public Defender. Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference approved a budget request in the
amount of $165,812 to establish the Federal Public Defender
Organization and to provide six months of operation during the
fiscal year 1982. The Conference also approved a budget
request in the amount of $222,658 for the fiscal year 1983.


                          GUIDELINES

       The Committee submitted to the Conference the
following amendments to the Guidelines for the Administration
of the Criminal Justice Act which were approved by the
Conference:

    1. 	   An amendment to paragraph 2.31, the redesignation
           of paragraph 3.15 as 3.16 and the addition of a new
           paragraph 3.15 to provide guidance with regard to the
           utilization of law students and computer-assisted
           legal research;
    2. 	   An amendment to paragraphs 2.30 and 3.06 and the
           addition of new Appendices E and F to provide
           sample "memorandum orders" authorizing interim
           payments of compensation under the Criminal Justice
           Act; and
    3. 	   An amendment to Appendix C to clarify the sample
           memorandum pertaining to advance approval for
           obtaining expert or investigative services.
                             45 




        COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS­

               CONDITIONS OF GRANT 


       The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved an amendment to clause 19 of the
"Community Defender Organization Grant Terms and
Conditions" to require the establishment of an Equal
Employment Opportunity Program.

        REVISIONS TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT

        At the suggestion of Judge MacBride the Conference
urged the Congress to take action on the Conference-approved
legislation to amend the Criminal Justice Act which is urgently
needed.


                 COMMITTEE ON RULES OF 

                PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE 


    Judge Edward T. Gignoux, Chairman of the Committee
on Rules of Practice and Procedure, presented the
Committee's report.

              AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL 

               RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE 

       Judge Gignoux submitted to the Conference proposed
amendments to Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
pertaining to the service of process in a civil action. The
proposed amendments are designed to relieve the United States
marshals of the duty of serving summonses and complaints in
most civil actions in which the government is not a party. Any
person who is not a party to the litigation and who is not less
than 18 years of age would be permitted to serve the summons
and complaint. In addition, the amendments would permit
service of summonses and complaints by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested and delivery restricted to the
addressee. A default or default judgment could not be entered
unless it appears of record that the defendant accepted or
refused to accept service by mail.

       At the request of a party, the United States marshals
would continue to serve the summons and complaint on behalf
of a person authorized to proceed in forma pauperis, 28 U.S.C.
                              46 




1915, or of a seaman authorized to proceed without the
prepayment of costs, 28 U.S.C. 1916; when required by Federal
statute; and pursuant to a court order which is necessary to
guarantee effective service in a particular action.         The
marshals would continue to serve forms of process which
require an enforcement presence, such as temporary
restraining orders, injunctions, attachments, arrests and orders
relating to judicial sales.

       Judge Gignoux stated that the proposed amendments to
Rule 4 are occasioned by the reduction in appropriations
available to the United States Marshals Service and the
pending legislation to relieve marshals of the duty to serve the
summons and complaint in private civil litigation. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
the proposed amendments to Rule 4 and authorized their
immediate transmission to the Supreme Court with a
recommendation that the amendments be approved by the
Court and transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law.
       Judge Gignoux also advised the Conference that the
Advisory Committee on the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
has conducted public hearings on the proposed amendments to
the civil rules distributed to the bench and bar last June. The
Advisory Committee has reviewed all comments received and
will be submitting its proposals in final form at the next
meeting of the Standing Committee.

                    BANKRUPTCY RULES
       The Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules has
prepared a draft of new bankruptcy rules and official forms to
govern bankruptcy procedure under the new Bankruptcy Code,
Title 11 of the United States Code, and the Standing
Committee has authorized their distribution to the bench and
bar, and the public generally, for comment. Public hearings
will be held in New York, Chicago, and San Francisco during
the summer months and written comments will be received
until August 1st. The Advisory Committee will meet in August
to complete its work and submit its final proposals to the
Standing Committee which plans to submit the proposed
bankruptcy rules to the Conference at its session next
September.
                             47


                     APPELLATE RULES
       The Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules is
presently without a chairman because of the recent death of
Judge Robert A. Ainsworth, Jr.       The reporter to the
Committee is continuing to work on matters previously
assigned and to circulate information to the Advisory
Committee members pending the appointment of a new
chairman.

                      CRIMINAL RULES
       In February the Advisory Committee on the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure conducted public hearings on
proposed amendments to the criminal rules distributed to the
bench and bar last October. Comments will continue to be
received until May 15th and thereafter the Advisory
Committee will report its recommendations to the Standing
Committee.

            IMPLEMENTATION COMMI'M'EE ON 

               ADMISSION OF ATI'ORNEYS 

                TO FEDERAL PRACTICE 


       The written report of the Implementation Committee on
the Admission of Attorneys to Federal Practice, of which
Judge James Lawrence King is Chairman, was received by the
Conf erence.
       The report indicated that the Committee had arranged
with the Federal Judicial Center to conduct a second
informational meeting of pilot court representatives to be held
April 13-14, 1982 in Kansas City, Missouri. The meeting will
be attended by the chief judge or other judge overseeing the
program in each pilot district and, in addition, by a working
member of the local bar implementing committee.

       The Committee further reported that six out of the
fourteen pilot courts originally selected to participate now
have operational programs and that seven others have made
substantial progress.     Several courts are preparing to
implement their programs in the near future. The pilot
districts on the whole continue to receive exceptional
cooperation from the bar and the legal community.
                             48




        AD HOC COMMITTEE ON THE DISPOsm:ON 

                OF COURT RECORDS 


      Judge Walter J. Cummings, Chairman of the reactivated
Ad Hoc Committee on the Disposition of Court Records,
presented the report of the Committee.
       Judge Cummings informed the Conference that pursuant
to the action taken by the Conference in March 1981 (Conf.
Rept. p. 12) the Chief Justice had reactivated the Ad Hoc
Committee on the Disposition of Court Records to consider
problems that have arisen since the approval of the records
disposition schedule in March 1980. Judge Cummings stated
that the Committee had consulted with the Archivist of the
United States, representatives of the Federal Court Clerks
Association and representatives of various historical
societies. As a result the Committee with the assistance of
the staff of the Administrative Office has developed a revised
records disposition schedule and program.          Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference authorized
the circulation of the Committee's report and the attached
draft of a revised records disposition schedule and program
regulations to all judges and other interested court officers
with a request that comments thereon be submitted to the
Committee. A final report will be submitted at the next
session of the Conference.

                         ELECTIONS

       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 332(f), reelected
Chief Judge Howard T. Markey to membership on the Board of
Certification for Circuit Executives for a term of three years,
until July I, 1985.
       The Conference also authorized the Executive
Committee of the Conference to select a district judge to
serve as a member of the Board of the Federal Judicial Center
for a term of four years succeeding Judge Aubrey E. Robinson,
Jr. whose term expires on March 28, 1982.
                              49



                  ADDfl10NAL JUDGHSHIPS

        In response to the Department of Justice's
announcement of a major initiative against crime in the
Southern District of Florida, and the Department's prediction
that criminal caseloads in that district will increase
dramatically in future months, the Conference, at the
Department's request and on motion of Judge Godbold,
recommended the creation of three new permanent judgeship
positions for that district, either by enactment of special
legislation or by revision of presently pending legislation which
would authorize one permanent and one temporary position for
that court, whichever would be most expeditious.             The
Conference also agreed that, once created, the positions should
be filled as expeditiously as possible.

      STUDY GROUP ON SELECTION OF LAW CLERKS

        On motion of Chief Judge Coffin the Conference
authorized the Chief Justice to appoint a small study group of
judges to explore the prospects of coordinating the selection of
law clerks by Federal judges to avoid the confusion that now
exists.


          COMMlTl'EE ON JUDGESBIP VACANCIES

        At the suggestion of Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg the
Chief Justice appointed a committee, to consist of Judges
Feinberg, Seitz and Smith, to consider means of expediting the
filling of judicial vacancies. Judge Feinberg was named the
Chairman of the Committee.


                      COURT SECURITY
       The Conference resolved that the Judicial Councils of
the Circuits maintain oversight of the implementation of the
recent Attorney General's Task Force Report on Court
Security.
                            50 



                PRETERMISSION OF TERMS 

               OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS 


       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the
pretermission of terms of the United States courts of appeals
during the calendar year 1982 at the following locations: at
Asheville, North Carolina in the Fourth Circuit; at Kansas
City, Missouri and Omaha, Nebraska in the Eighth Circuit; and
at Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and Wichita, Kansas in the Tenth
Circuit.

                       RESOLUTION

      On the motion of Chief Judge Charles Clark, the
Conference adopted the following resolution:
   With deep regret, the Judicial Conference of the
   United States notes the passing on December 22,
   1981, of one of its most stalwart workers, Robert
   Andrew Ainsworth, Jr.
   Prior to his appointment· as a judge of the United
   States District Court for the Eastern District of
   Louisiana in 1961, he was a member of the Louisiana
   State Senate from 1950 to 1961. During this time, he
   also served as the President of the National
   Legislative Conference, Chairman of the Board of
   Managers of the Council of State Governments and a
   member      of   the   Advisory Commission on
   Intergovernmental Relations.
   On August 31, 1966, Judge Ainsworth entered on duty
   with the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth
   Circuit. One year earlier, he began his many years of
   dedicated service to the Judicial Conference when he
   was appointed as a member of the Committee to
   Implement the Criminal Justice Act. Subsequent to
   that time, he served on six different committees,
   three of which he chaired. In 1968, Judge Ainsworth
   served as a member of the Committee on
   Committees, the recommendation of which brought
   about the present committee structure of the
   Conference. He was appointed a member of the
   Committee on Court Administration in 1969 and
   served as its chairman from 1971 to 1977• At the
                            51 




   time of his death, he chaired the Ad Hoc Committee
   on Judicial Review Provisions in Regulatory Reform
   Legislation, as well as the Advisory Committee on
   Appellate Rules and he was a member of the recently
   constituted Committee on the Judicial Branch.
   As Chairman of the Court Administration Committee
   he testified before committees of Congress on
   numerous occasions. In his usual calm manner, he
   demonstrated to all his dedication to the law and its
   practical administration.     During the more than
   sixteen years of service on various Conference
   committees, his knowlege of the law and the
   judiciary, his common sense, his persuasive influence,
   and his constant good humor have done much to shape
   and guide the business of the Federal Courts.
   The Conference extends its deepest sympathy to his
   devoted wife Elizabeth and their children and
   requests that a copy of this resolution be sent to his
   family.


           RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

       The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for
legislative or administrative action.

                         Warren E. Burger
                         Chief Justice of the United States
May 17, 1982
                                               52




                                           INDEX

                                                                                          Page
Additional Judgeships. • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 49
Administrative Office, U.S. Courts
   Report of the Director. • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . 3
Admission of Attorneys to Federal Practice
   Committee on, Report of. • • . • . • • . . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 47
Ainsworth, Robert A.,Jr., Memorial Resolution •••••••••••••• 50
Appellate Rules ................... " .. • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • . • . . • . .. 47 

Appointments and Payments, Criminal Justice Act ••••••••••• 43 

Appropriations (see Budget) 

Arbitration: 

   Court-Annexed Arbitration. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 15
   Senior Judges as Arbitrators. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 25
Bankruptcy Rules ............................................ 46 

Bankruptcy System:
   Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges •••••••••••••••••••                                     37
   Bankruptcy Administrator. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •.           37
   Committee on, Report of ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                     36
Biennial Salary Commission. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6
Biennial Survey of Judgeship Needs ........................                                   16 

Budget:
   Amendments to Budget Request, FY 1983 •••••••••••••••                                      22
   Appropriation for FY 1982.. • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••           22
   Committee on, Report of ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                     21
Budget Requests-F ederal Public Defenders. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                     44
Certification Board, Circuit Executives •••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                     48
Civil Cases:
   Divisional Venue in • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••   19
     Management of ...................................... . 12
Civil Rights Cases, Prisoners' •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                  18
Civil Rules, Amendments to ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                     45
Clerks' Offices, Staffing Formula for ••••••••••••••••••••••                                   7
Codes of Conduct:
   Activities of Committee ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                     25
   Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••          25
   Senior Judges as Arbitrators. • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••           25
Committees:
   Judgeship Vacancies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..      49
   Law Clerks, Study Group on Selection of •••••••••.••••••                                   49
   Senior Judges as Arbitrators, Study of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .•                 25
Community Defender Organizations, Conditions of Grant •••••                                   45
                                                 53



Court Administration:
   Biennial Survey of Judgeship Needs .....................                                      16 

  Civil Case Management. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . . . • . • . . ••              12 

  Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • • •              7

  Court-Annexed Arbitration. • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . .•                15 

  Court Reporters .•.••••...••••••••..........•........                                            8

   Divisional Venue in Civil Cases ..••.••••••••••••••..•.•.                                     19 

  Interim Designation of u.S. Attorney and 

            U.8. Marshal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 19 

  Marshals Service ••••••...........•.•...•••••••••••...                                         14 

   National Court of Appeals and Intercircuit 

       Tribunal of U. S. Courts of Appeals •.••••••••...•...                                     18 

   National Judicial Study Commission and 

       State Justice Institute •••.•......••....•....•.••••                                      20 

   Places of Holding Court. . • • . . . • . . • . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . • . ••           15 

  Prisoner Civil Rights Cases ••.....•••.•...•.••.••••••••                                       18 

  Retirement of Article I Judges. • • . • • • • • • • • • • . . . . . • . . • ••                 17 

  Salaries of Article I Judges and Supporting 

       Judicial Officers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • • • • ••         16 

  Staff Attorneys .•.•••••••.•.••••.....•..••....•......                                           7

  Staffing Formula for Clerks' Offices ......•.....•..••••.                                        7

Court Reporters: 

  Certification of Transcript Rates. • • • . . • • • • • • • • • . . . . . . . .                  9

  Court Reporter Management Plan •••• • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • •.                          8

  Electronic Sound Recording. . . . . • . • • • • . • • • . . . . . • • . . . . .•               11 

     Job Security. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10 

     Late Delivery of Transcripts. . . . . . . . . . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ..            10 

     Reporters for Senior Judges •.....•.•••••••••••••..••••                                     11 

     Salaries of Reporters •......•••••••••••••.•......•••••                                     11 

     Sick Leave .•.•.••............••.•.•......••. . . . . . . ..                                11 

     Swing Reporters ....•...............••••••..••••••...                                        9

Court Security. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   14,49
Courts: 

   Courts of Appeals: 

        National Court of Appeals and Intercircuit 

          Tribunals of Courts of Appeals ..•..•.•.••••..••••                                     18 

        Ninth Circuit Staff Attorneys. . . . . • . • • • • • • • • • . • • . • •                  7

        Pretermission of Terms. • • . . . . . . . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • ••               50 

   District Courts: 

        Additional Judgeships. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • ••            49 

        Places of Holding Court. . • • . . . . . . . . . . • • • • • • • • . . • ••              15 

Criminal Code Revision. • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . . . . . • • . . . . • • • . • • ••         38 

                                                54 





Crim"inal Justice Act:
   Appointments and Payments. • • • • . • • • • . • • • • • • • . • • • • • • •• 43
   Budget Requests-Federal Public Defenders •••••••.••••.• 44
   Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . . • • • • • • • • •. 43
   Community Defender Organizations-Conditions
           of Grants .••.••••.•••••.••••.••.••••••••••.••••• 45
    Guidelines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . • .. 44
   Revisions to the Criminal Justice Act. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •. 45
Criminal Law:
   Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 38
   Criminal Code Revision. • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 38
Criminal Rules .•................................••....•• 47 

Elections:
   Board of Certification, Circuit Executives. • • • • • • • • • • • • .•                        48
   Board of Federal Judicial Center .......................                                      48
Electronic Sound Recording. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • ••           11
Ethics in Government Act. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••           23
   (see also "Judicial Ethics!!)
Federal Judicial Center:
    Election to the Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 48
   Recommended Procedures for Handling
        Prisoners' Civil Rights Cases .......................                                    18
   Study on Court-Annexed Arbitration. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                      15
Federal Public Defenders-Budget Requests •••••••••••••••.•                                       44
Financial Disclosure Reports:
   Fees for Copies of Disclosure Reports •••••••.•••••••••••                                     24
   Forms and Instructions. • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • ••          23
   Review of Disclosure Reports. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                24
Grand Juries, Witnesses before. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••             40
Guidelines:
    Civil Case Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 13
    Criminal Justice Act •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.••• 44
Intercircuit Assignments:
    Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 42
Intercircuit Tribunal of U. S. Courts of Appeals
    and NaHonal Court of Appeals ............. • .. • .. • • • ... 18
Judges:
    Article I Judges:
           Retirement of ••••••• . . . • • • • . • • • • • • . . • • . • • • • • . . •• 17
           Salaries of ...................................... 16 

    Bankruptcy Judges, Arrangements for. • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • •• 37
    Senior Judges:
        Court R eporters for •••••.•.•••••••••••••.•••••••• 11
        Senior Judges as Arbitrators. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 25
                                                 55




Judgeships:
     Additional. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • .. 49 

   Biennial Survey of Judgeship Needs. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 16 

   Committee on Judgeship Vacancies •.....••••••••••..••• 49 

Judicial Branch: 

   Biennial Salary Commission. • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • 6 

   Committee on, Report of. •• ••••••• • • • • • • • • . • . • •• • • • • •• 4 

   Judicial Salary Control Act of 1981..................... 5 

   Judicial Survivors Annuities ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 4 

Judicial Conference:
    Call of..................... ". . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    1

   Release of Action. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 51 

Judicial Councils: 

   Civil Case Management......... • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . •• 14 

   Court Security ...................................... . 49 

   Periodic Reporting - Jury Selection •••••••••..••••••••.. 41 

Judicial Ethics: 

   Amendment to Ethics in Government Act. • . . • • • • • • • • • • •• 23 

   Committee on, Report of ............................. . 23 

   Fees for Copies of Disclosure Reports ••••••..••••••••••• 24 

   Reporting Form and Instructions ..................... .. 23 

   Review of Financial Disclosure Reports ••••.••••.••••••• 24 

   Social Security Income ............................... . 23 

Judicial Salary Control Act of 1981 ....................... . 5 

Judicial Survivors Annuities ••••••••••••••••••••••••••...• 4 

Jury System: 

   Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 40 

   Jury Trials in Land Condemnation Cases ......••••••••••• 40 

   Periodic Reporting-Jury Selection ••...•••••••••••••••• 41 

   Security of Juror Deliberations. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 42 

   Voir Dire Examination ••••••••••••••••••••••••.•.••••• 41 

   Witnesses before Grand Juries ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 40 

Land Condemnation Cases, Jury Trials in ••••••••••••••••••• 40 

Law Clerks, Study Group on Selection of ••••••••••••••••••• 49 

Legal Assistant for Magistrates. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 36 

Legislation: 

   Additional Judgeships. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • •• 49 

   Biennial Salary Commission. • • • • •• • • • • • • •• •• • • • • • • • • • .• 6 

   Criminal Code Revision. • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • •• 38 

   Divisional Venue in Civil Cases ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 19 

   Ethics in Government Act, Amendments to •••••••••••••• 23 

   Interim Designation of U.S. Attorney or 

        U.s. Marshal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 19 

    Judicial Salary Control Act of 1981 ................... .. 5 

    Judicial Survivors Annuity Act ........................ . 4 

    Jury Trials in Land Condemnation Cases .•.•.•••••••••..• 40 

                                                56




Legisation (Cont'd):
   National Court of Appeals and Intercircuit
     Tribunal of Courts of Appeals. • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • ••                18
   National Judicial Study Commission and
     State Justice Institute •.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                     20
   Places of Holding Court. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • .. ••            15
   Retirement of Article I Judges.. • .. • .. • • • • .. . . . • • .. ....                      17
   Revision of the Criminal Justice Act. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                   45
   Salaries of Article I Judges and
     Supporting Judicial Officers .........................                                     16
   Voir Dire Examination •••.•....•••••••••••••••••••••••                                       41
   Witnesses Before Grand Juries. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • ••                40
Magistrates System:
   Changes in Magistrates Positions .......................                                     26
   Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••            26
   Legal Assistant Positions. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••          36
   Salaries of Part-Time Magistrates. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                  26
Marshals Service ••••.•.•..•.•••••••..•••••••. " . . . • • • • • •. 14
   Court Security ............ ".........•. ". . . . . . . . . . . . ..                         49 

   Security of Juror Deliberations .........................                                    42
National Court of Appeals and Intercircuit
   Tribunal of U. S. Courts of Appeals .....................                                    18
National Judicial Study Commission and State
   Justice Institute .....................................                                      20 

Places of Holding Court. . •. •• • •• •• • •••• • • • • • • • • • ••••• •• ••                   15
Pretermission of Terms of Courts of Appeals. • • • • • • • • •• • • • ••                        50
Prisoners' Civil Rights Cases ..............................                                    18
Probation System:
    Committee on, Report of. . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . . • • • • ••           37
   Sentencing Institutes ••••••...•••••••••••••••.••••••••                                      38
Records Disposition:
    Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••           48
Release of Conference Action ..•••.••••••••••••••••••••••                                       51
Resolution, Memorial on the death of
    Judge Robert A. Ainsworth, Jr. ••••••••••••••••••••••••                                     50
Retirement of Article I Judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••            17
Rules of Practice and Procedure:
    Appellate Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   47
     Bankruptcy Rules .......••...•••••••...•••....••••••• 46 

   Civil Rules, Amendments to •••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                 45
   Committee on, Report of. • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••            45
   Criminal Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   47
Salaries:
   Article I Judges and Supporting Judicial Officers. . • • • • •••                             16
     Court Reporters •••••...•.••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 11
     Part-Time Magistrates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 26
     Salaries and Arrangements, Magistrates. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 26
                                                                57 





Security .................................................................................... 14,49 

Security of Jury Deliberations .••.•••••..••••••••.•••••..• 42
Sentencing Institutes .................................................................. 38 

Social Security Income. • • • • . . • • . • • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •. 23
Staff Attorneys . . . .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. 7
Staffing Formula for Clerks' Offices. • • • • • • • • • • ••• • • • . • • • • • 7
State Justice Institute; National JUdicial.
   Study Com mission and •••••.••••••••••••••.••••••••••• 20
Statistics:
      Bankruptcy Courts .............................................................                                          4
      Courts of Appeals .. .. .. .. .. • .. .. • .. .. • .. .. • .. .. .. • .. .. • .. .. .. .. . .. • .. .. .. .. .. .. ..    3
   District Courts .......................................................................                                     4
   Intercircuit Assignments. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                                         42
Supporting Judicial Officers, Salaries of. • • • • • • •• • • • •• • • • • ••                                                 16
Transcripts:
   Electronic Sound Recording. • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • • • • . • ••                                           11
   Late Delivery of ............................................................                                              10
   Rates, Certification of. . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  9
United States Attorney and U. S. Marshals;
   Interim Designation of • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • ••                                      19
Voir Dire Examination ••••..•••••.•••••••••••••••••••••.•                                                                     41
Witnesses before Grand Juries ••••••••••.•.•.••.••••••••••                                                                    40




                                               u. .    GOVERNMEN': PRINTING OFFICE                      1982 0         374-619
