          REPORT 

             of the 

   PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 




       March 16-11, 1983




         Washington, D.C.
              1983
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 



        William E. Foley 

            Director 

                      REPORT 

                             of the 

   PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

         UNITED STATES 


              Mareh 16-11, 1983 





                     Washington, D.C. 

                          1983 





     FOI' ..1e by II>t Superintendenl cI' Docvmenu. u.s. Cio¥cnn'ICllt 

                  Priatin, Oft"1CC. Wuhinston. D.C. 10402 

  THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331
§ 331. JUDIOAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

   The Chief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of each
judicial circuit, and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at such
time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such confer­
ence which shall be known as the Judicial Conference of the United States. Special ses­
sions of the conference may be called by the Chief Justice at such times and places as he
may designate.
  The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the cir­
cuit and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held
pursuant to section 333 of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for
three successive years, except that in the year following the enactment of this amended
section the judges in the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth circuits shall choose a district
judge to serve for one year, the judges in the second, fifth, and eighth circuits shall
choose a district judge to serve for two years and the judges in the third, sixth, ninth, and
District of Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for three years.
   If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit
is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon any other circuit or district judge from
such circuit. Every judge summoned shall attend and, unless excused by the Chief Justice,
shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to the needs of his
circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of which the administration of justice in
the courts of the United States may be improved.
   The Conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from circuits
or districts where necessary. It shall also submit suggestions and recommendations to the
various courts to promote uniformity of management procedures and the expeditious con­
duct of court business. The Conference is authorized to exercise the authority provided in
section 372(c) of this title as the Conference, or through a standing committee. If the
Conference elects to establish a standing committee, it shall be appointed by the Chief
Justice and all petitions for review shall be reviewed by that committee. The Conference
or the standing committee may hold hearings, take sworn testimony, issue subpoenas and
subpoenas duces tecum, and make necessary and appropriate orders in the exercise of its
authority. Subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum shall be issued by the clerk of the Su­
preme Court or by the clerk of any court of appeals, at the direction of the Chief Justice
or his designee and under the seal of the court, and shall be served in the manner pro­
vided in rule 45(c) of the Federal Rules of Civil' Procedure for subpoenas and subpoenas
duces tecum issued on behalf of the United States or an officer or any agency thereof.
The Conference may also prescribe and modify rules for the exercise of the authority pro­
vided in section 372(c) of this title. All judicial officers and employees of the United
States shall promptly carry into effect all orders of the Judicial Conference or the stand­
ing committee established pursuant to this section.

   The Conference shall also carry on a continuous study of the operation and effect of the
general rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as prescribed by the Su­
preme Court for the other courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes in
and additions to those rules as 'the Conference may deem desirable to promote simplicity
in procedure, fairness in administration, the just determination of litigation, and the elim­
ination of unjustifiable expense and delay shall be recommended by the Conference from
time to time to the Supreme Court for its consideration and adoption, modification or re­
jection, in accordance with law.
  The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice, report to such conference
on matters relating to the business of the several courts of the United States, with partic­
ular reference to cases to which the United States is a party.
  The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings of the
Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.


                                              iv
                              TABLE OF CONTENTS 


              REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

          JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UMlTED STATES 


                                 March 16-1'1, 1983 


                                                                                      Page
Call of the Conference . . . • • • • • • • • . . . . • • • . . . • . • • • • •          1

Report of the Director of the Administrative 

  Office of the United States Courts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 4

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict 

 Litigation ......... "..........................                                       5

Committee on the Judicial Branch. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 5

Committee on Court Administration ••••••••••. • • • • • • •                             5

    Additional Judgeships. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            6

    Administrative Office Statistical 

       Records. • • • . . . • • • • • • . . . . • • • • . • . • . . • • • • • • • •     6

     Advisory Commission on 

      Intergovernmental Relations. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                7

     Habeas Corpus Reform • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •             7

     Judicial Reform Act of 1982 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              7

     Dispository Libraries ••••.•.•••••••••.•••••••••                                   9

     Salaries of Article I Judges and 

      Supporting Judicial Officers •••••••••••• • • • • . • • •                         9

     Places of Holding Court ••••••••••••••••••••••••                                  10 

     Supervisory Staff Attorneys •••••••••••••••••••••                                 10 

     Court Reporters • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •       11 

    Additional Supporting Personnel •••••••.••••••••••                                 12 

    Distribution of Reports. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •           12 

Committee on the Budget ••••• '. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               13 

Judicial Ethics Committee •••••••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • •                       13 

    Distribution of Reporting Forms •••••••• • • • • • • • • • •                       13 

    References to the Attorney General ••••••••••••••.                                 13 

     Review of Reports . • • . • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • •         14 

Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct • . • • • • • • • • • • • •                     14 

   Activities of the Committee. • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • •                14 

   Codes of Conduct for Clerks of Court 

     and Probation Officers • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            15 

Committee on the Administration of the 

   Federal Magistrates System •••••••••••••••••••••                                    15 

   Judicial Reform Act of 1982 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               15 

   Salaries of Part-Time Magistrates. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                  16 

   Travel Regulations. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •           17 

   Changes in Magistrate Positions ••••••••••••••••••                                  17 


                                           v
Committee on the Administration of the 

   Bankruptcy System. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •             25 

   Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                      25 

   Guidelines for Chapter 13 Administration. • • • • • • • • • • •                      26 

   Bankruptcy Workload •••••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                       26 

   Bankruptcy Legislation. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              27 

Committee on the Administration of the 

   Probation System. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            28 

   Sentencing Reform. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •             28 

   Sentencing Institutes ••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                     29 

Committee on the Administration of the 

     Criminal Law. . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . .        29 

   Bail Reform Legislation •••••••••••••••••••• "....                                   29 

Committee on the Operation of the 

     Jury System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . .       31 

   Grand Jury Reform Legislation • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                  31 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                    32 

Committee to Implement the Criminal 

     Justice Act . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      32 

     Appointments and Payments. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 32 

     Budget Requests - Federal Public 

      Delenders ••••••••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                   33 

     Grant Requests - Community Defender
      Organizations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . .        33

     Guidelines . . . . . . . . . . . • • . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . .     34 

Committee on Pacific Territories • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                34 

Ad Hoc Committee on the Law Clerk 

   Selection Process • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •          36 

Com mittee to Review Circuit Council 

   Conduct and Disability Orders. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 36 

Courtroom Photographs •••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                       37 

Elections . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . .   37 

Pretermission of Terms of the
     Courts of Appeals. • . • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • • • . • • . . . • . .         37 

Release of Conference Action. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               38 





                                           vi
                 REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

                 OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 

                     OF THE UNITED STATES 


                       Mareb 16-17, 1983 


       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened
on March 16, 1983, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of
the United States, issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and continued in
session on March 17. The Chief Justice presided and the
following members of the Conference were present:

First Circuit:

     Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin
     Judge W. Arthur Garrity, Jr., District of Massachusetts

Second Circuit:

     Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
     Chief Judge Constance B. Motley, Southern District of
         New York

Third Circuit:

     Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz
     Judge Gerald J. Weber, Western District of Pennsylvania

Fourth Circuit:

     Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
     Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., Eastern District of Virginia

Fifth Circuit:

      Chief Judge Charles Clark
      Chief Judge John V. Singleton, Jr., Southern District of
         Texas

Sixth Circuit:

      Chief Judge George C. Edwards, Jr. 

      Chief Judge Frank J. Battisti, Northern District of Ohio 

Seventh Circuit:

     Judge Richard D. Cudahy·
     Chief Judge John W. Reynolds, Eastern District of
         Wisconsin

Eighth Circuit:

     Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
     Judge Albert G. Schatz, District of Nebraska

Ninth Circuit:

     Chief Judge James R. Browning
     Chief Judge Manuel L. Real, Central District of
         California

Tenth Circuit:

     Chief Judge Oliver Seth
     Chief Judge Luther B. Eubanks, Western District of
        Oklahoma

Eleventh Circuit:

     Chief Judge John C. Godbold
     Judge William C. O'Kelley, Northern District of
         Georgia

District of Columbia Circuit:

     Chief Judge Spottswood W. Robinson III
     Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District of
         Columbia

Federal Circuit:

     Chief Judge Howard T. Markey




*Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge
Walter J. Cummings who was unable to attend.


                                2

       Circuit Judges Irving R. Kaufman, Anthony M. Kennedy,
Otto R. Skopil Jr., Edward A. Tamm, and Gerald B. Tjoflat;
Senior Circuit Judge Carl McGowan; Senior District Judges
George L. Hart, Elmo B. Hunter and Thomas J. MacBride; and
District Judges T. Emmet Clarie, Robert E. DeMascio and
Alexander Harvey II, attended all or some of the sessions of
the Conference.

      The Deputy Attorney General of the United States,
Honorable Edward C. Schmults, and the Solicitor General of
the United States, Honorable Rex E. Lee, addressed the
Conference briefly on matters of mutual interest to the
Department of Justice and the Conference.

       Senator Paul Laxalt, Chairman of the Senate
Appropriations Subcommittee on the Departments of State,
Commerce, Justice, and the Judiciary, and Congressman
Robert W. Kastenmeier, Chairman of the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Courts, Civil Liberties, and the
Administration of Justice, addressed the Conference briefly.
Alan A. Parker, Counsel to the House Judiciary Committee,
presented a message from the Chairman, Peter W. Rodino, Jr.
Vinton D. Lide, Chief Counsel, Senate Judiciary Committee;
David W. Beier III of Mr. Kastenmeier's subcommittee staff,
and John F. Nash, Jr., of Senator Laxalt's staff were
introduced to the Conference.

       William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
Director; James E. Macklin, Executive Assistant Director;
William J. Weller, Legislative Affairs Officer; Daniel R.
Cavan, Deputy Legislative Affairs Officer; Deborah H. Kirk,
Chief, Office of Management Review; Professor A. Leo Levin,
Director, and Charles W. Nihan, Deputy Director of the
Federal Judicial Center, attended the sessions of the
Conference. Mark W. Cannon, Administrative Assistant to the
Chief Justice, and David M. O'Brien, JUdicial Fellow, also
attended sessions of the Conference.

       The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo
Levin, presented his semiannual report on the activities of the
Center.




                              3

               REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR 

             OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

             OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 


       The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, William E. Foley, presented to the Conference a
brief report on the caseloads of the United States courts during
the calendar year 1982.                                        .

       Mr. Foley stated that appeals filed in the United States
courts of appeals in 1982 increased to 28,161, exclusive of 140
appeals filed in the new Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit during its first three months of operation. There were
28,151 appeals terminated, 10 less than the number filed, and
the pending caseload rose slightly to 22,149 as of December 31,
1982. In addition there were 291 appeals pending on that date
in the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.

       Civil cases filed in the United States district courts in
1982 increased 17 percent to a record 223,581.            Cases
terminated were 202,766, or 12 percent more than the previous
year, but 20,815 cases fewer than the number filed. As a
result pending civil cases increased to a record 217,623 as of
December 31, 1982.

       During the year there were 32,819 criminal cases filed
in the district courts, a 4 percent increase over the previous
year. There were 31,401 criminal cases terminated and 17,594
criminal cases were pending on the dockets as of December 31,
1982.
       In 1982 a record 545,408 separate estates were involved
in bankruptcy cases filed in the United States bankruptcy
courts, a 4 percent increase over 1981. There were 445,573
estates closed during the year, a 16 percent increase over the
previous year, but the number of estates awaiting adjudication
and closing increased 15 percent to a record 786,387 as of
December 31, 1982. Mr. Foley noted that he had filed a report
with Congress in accordance with provisions in the 1978
Bankruptcy Reform Act advising Congress that 304 bankruptcy
judgeships are currently needed to administer existing
bankruptcy court caseloads expeditiously.




                               4

                  JUDICIAL PANEL ON 

                MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION 


        A written statement filed with the Conference by the
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation indicated that during
the six-month period ended December 31, 1982 the Panel had
conducted two regularly scheduled sessions and had entered 30
major decisions.      Of the 21 new groups of multidistrict
litigation considered the Panel ordered transfer in 13,
encompassing 272 civil actions of which 119 were centralized
for consolidated pretrial proceedings with 153 actions
originally filed in the transferee districts. The Panel denied
transfer in 8 new groups of multidistrict cases comprising a
total of 39 civil actions. During this same period there were
134 additional civil actions transferred by the Panel as tag­
along cases for inclusion in ongoing centralized pretrial
proceedings with previously transferred cases. During this
period there were 110 civil actions remanded by the Panel to
the transferee forums from which they had been transferred.


          COMMrITHE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

       Judge Irving R. Kaufman, Chairman of the Committee
on the JUdicial Branch, submitted the Committee!s report.

        Judge Kaufman reported that the Committee had
recently met to discuss a number of matters including
preliminary plans for a presentation to be made to the
Quadrennial Commission on Executive, Legislative and Judicial
Salaries which is to be appointed next year. At the same time
the Committee is exploring the prospects of developing other
methods for the setting of judicial salaries. Judge I<"aufman
also informed the Conference that the bill to amend the
JUdicial Survivors' Annuity Act, previously recommended by
the Committee and approved by the Conference, had been
introduced in the 98th Congress. The Committee hopes that
action can be taken by the Congress on this important
legisla tion during its current session.


         COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

      Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration, presented the report of the Committee.



                              5
                 ADDITION AL JUDGESHIPS

       At its session in September, 1982 (Conf. Rept. p. 63) the
Conference authorized the Committee to consider further the
need for additional judgeship positions in the Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit, and any emergency requests from
individual courts, and to report thereon at the next session of
the Conference. Judge Hunter informed the Conference that
because of the timing of the recent biennial judgeship survey in
relation to the creation of the new Fifth Circuit, the
Committee considered the need for additional judgeships in the
Fifth Circuit as a delayed part of the biennial survey rather
than as an emergency request. It was the view of the
Committee, based on current workload statistics, that two
additional judgeships for the Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit were justified.       The Conference approved this
recommendation       of   the   Committee and authorized
transmission of the request to the Congress.

       The Conference also approved the recommendation of
the Committee that no additional judgeships for the Eastern
District of Arkansas be requested of the Congress at this time.


     ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE STATISTICAL RECORDS

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Administrative Office had been working with the National
Archives and Records Service to schedule the transfer of
machine-readable statistical records to Federal Records
Centers for storage, retention and disposition.            The
Administrative Office requested that a restriction be placed on
access to these records to prevent them from being used, sold,
loaned, destroyed, donated, or otherwise disposed of in any
manner without the consent of the Administrative Office until
the expiration of 30 years after the creation of the record.
The Committee believed that some restriction was necessary
but that the 30-year period may be excessive. Accordingly,
the Committee submitted the following resolution which was
approved by the Conference:

       The statistical files of the Administrative Office
       should be transferred to the National Archives
       and Records Service for retention as permanent
       records 10 years after the date of creation of the
       computer files. Upon receipt by NARS, access to


                               6
      these files shall be restricted for a period of 10
      additional years. The files shall not be used,
      sold, loaned, destroyed, donated, or otherwise
      disposed of in any manner without the consent of
      the Administrative Office until 20 years after
      the date of the creation of the file.
                ADVISORY COMMISSION ON 

              INTERGOVERNMENT RELATIONS 

       H.R. 7173, 97th Congress, is a bill to authorize
representatives of the Federal and State judiciaries, elected
school boards, and towns or other small communities to serve
on the Advisory Commission on Intergovernment Relations.
The Commission was established in 1959 to monitor the
operation of the American Federal system and to recommend
ways to improve its functioning, efficiency and effectiveness.
Upon the advice of the Committee the Conference
recommended the inclusion of representatives of State and
Federal judicial systems on the Advisory Commission.


                 HABEAS CORPUS REFORM

       The Conference reviewed recommendations formulated
in response to several bills introduced in both the Senate and
House of Representatives during the 97th Congress to reform
habeas corpus procedures.          After full discussion the
Conference returned these recommendations to the Committee
for further study.


              JUDICIAL REFORM ACT OF 1982

       S. 3018, 97th Congress, is a bill to reform the Federal
judiciary and promote the separation of powers. Part A of
Title I of the bill would withdraw jurisdiction from all Federal
courts to consider cases alleging state abridgm ent of rights
secured by the first eight amendments to the Constitution of
the United States, presumably on the theory that these
amendments were intended to bind only the Federal
government and not the states. As a consequence all such
claims would have to be brought in state courts.

       Part D of Title I of the bill would amend 42 U.s.C. 1983
and 28 U.S.C. 1343(a)(3) and (4) in several respects. Amended
Section 1983 could be used as a basis for seeking the


                              7
vindication of Constitutional rights, but not statutory rights,
unless the statute provided for equal rights. Thus the Supreme
Court decision in Maine v. Thiboutot, 448 U.S. 1(1980) would be
overruled. Immunity from Section 1983 civil actions would be
restored to local governments, municipal corporations and
other state political subdivisions, thereby overruling the
Supreme Court decision in Owen v. City of Independence, 445
U.S. 622 (1980). Further, the anti-injunction statute would be
made applicable to civil actions under Section 1983 thereby
reversing the Supreme Court decision in Mitchum v. Foster,
407 U.S. 225 (1972). Finally, the exhaustion of state remedies
would be required as a condition precedent to bringing a suit in
Federal court under Section 1983.

       Part F of Title I of the bill would repeal the general
statutory grant of Federal question jurisdiction, 28 U .S.C.
1331, thus effectively abolishing the jurisdiction established by
Congress in 1875. This section of the bill would also invalidate
recently enacted legislation to eliminate the $10,000 amount­
in-controversy requirement for Federal question cases which
was supported by the Conference. (Conf. Rept. March 1977, p.
8).

       Part H of Title I of the bill would require that an
injunction directed against a state or any officer, comm ission,
political subdivision, or other agency of a state be heard by a
three-judge district court under the provisions of 28 U .S.C.
2284.     The Conference has repeatedly recommended the
elimination of three-judge district courts. (Conf. Rept., Oct.
1970, p. 78).

        The Committee pointed out that Parts A, D and F of
Title I of the bill, considered collectively, involve a radical
realignment of jurisdiction between Federal and state courts.
Part H of Title I of the bill would result in an inefficient
utilization of presently busy judges.

       These sections so seriously taint S. 3018, 97th Congress,
that the Committee recommended strong opposition to any
duplicate or successor bill in its entirety, viewing such
legislation as a hazardous experiment with the vulnerable
fabric of the nation's judicial systems. This recommendation
was approved by the Conference.




                               8

                  DEPOSITORY LIBRARIES

        Since 1971 the library of the Supreme Court and the
libraries of the courts of appeals in 13 separate locations have
been designated as depository libraries pursuant to 44 U.S.C.
1901-16. In 1971 the Public Printer specifically approved the
courts' participation in this program, but the Superintendent of
Documents recently expressed concern over the absence of any
statutory language explicitly authorizing this participation. He
thus feels it necessary to terminate the program at the close
of the current fiscal year.        Judge Hunter inform ed the
Conference that the continued designation of Federal court
libraries as depositories is extrem ely valuable and that the
program provides a speedy and reliable source of much
Congressional material.

        The Com mittee therefore recom mended that the
Conference authorize the Administrative Office to draft and
transmit to Congress an amendment to Title 44 of the United
States Code to designate specifically the libraries of the
Supreme Court and of the courts of appeals as depository
libraries.   This recommendation was approved by the
Conference.


            SALARIES OF ARTICLE I JUDGES 

          AND SUPPORTING JUDICIAL OFFICERS 


       The Conference in March, 1982 (Conf. Rept. p. 16)
authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to
prepare and transmit to Congress legislation to authorize the
Director to fix the salaries of all Article I judges and other
supporting judicial officers, subject to the supervision and
direction of the Conference.            The Committee then
recommended that the salaries of these judicial officers not
exceed the salary fixed for Level II of the Executive Schedule,
but the Conference in lieu thereof approved a ceiling of 85
percent of the salary of a district judge. S. 443, 98th
Congress, a bill to provide for the reorganization of the
bankruptcy courts, contains language to accomplish the
Judicial Conference's directive. The Committee pointed out,
however, that Congress had recently increased the salaries of
various officers to a level which now exceeds 85 percent of the
salary of a district judge. Consequently, the enactment of
S. 443, as introduced, would result in a pay reduction for some
officers in the Federal Judiciary.



                              9
       The Committee pointed out that regardless of the
ceiling fixed in any statute the salaries fixed by the Director
of the Administrative Office will have to be approved by the
Judicial Conference before they become effective. In view of
this, and in order to prevent the reduction of anyone's salary,
the Committee recommended that the Conference revise its
original action, approve the salary ceiling orig-inally
recommended, i.e., Executive Level II, and authorize the
Director to notify Congress formally of the revision. This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.


                PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

       H.R. 6972, 97th Congress, is a bill to establish Boulder,
Colorado as a place of holding court. The bill has been
approved by both the Judicial Council of the Tenth Circuit and
the district court.     Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference approved the purpose to be served
by any successor bill.

       The United States District Court for the Central
District of Illinois has requested that Champaign/Urbana be
statutorily designated as a place of holding court because of its
central location. The Judicial Council of the Seventh Circuit
has recommended approval of this request.             Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
the request and authorized the Director of the Administrative
Office to transmit it to the Congress.

        The Conference was informed that the district court
and the Judicial Council of the Eleventh Circuit have recently
recommended the closing of court facilities at Americus in the
Middle District of Georgia. The Conference approved this
action.


             SUPERVISORY STAFF ATTORNEYS

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed its past practices with regard to the
review of the classification of each supervisory staff attorney
position on a case-by-case basis and had concluded that it
would be advantageous to adopt general guidelines for the
control of the number of such positions to be classified at
grades JSP-13 or 14.       Upon the recommendation of the


                              10
Committee the Conference thereupon adopted the following
guideline:

      The Director may authorize the classification of
      staff attorney positions at JSP-13 and/or JSP-14
      based upon appropriate criteria contained in the
      Judiciary Salary Plan, subject to the proviso that
      the number of such positions in each court does
      not exceed one for every six attorney positions
      grade JSP-12 or lower.         Requests for the
      reclassification of staff attorney positions to
      grades JSP-13 or 14 that would result in a ratio
      of more than one such position for each six
      posi tions at grade JSP-12 or lower, shall be
      subject to Judicial Conference or Committee
      review and approval.


                    COURT REPORTERS

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed and approved a draft of a Court
Reporters! Manual prepared by a member of the Subcommittee
on Supporting Personnel with the assistance of a United States
Magistrate, two clerks of district courts, a representative of
the United States Court Reporters! Association, a member of
the staff of the Federal Judicial Center, and two members of
the staff of the Administrative Office. The Manual is the first
comprehensive compilation of existing law and Conference
policies and procedures. It does not establish new policy.
        Judge Hunter pointed out, however, that the Judicial
Conference policy concerning transcript format, adopted in
1946, had not been uniformly interpreted so that indentations
and special headings som etim es substantially reduce the
volume of text on the page. As a consequence a separate
Chapter XVIII was included in the Manual to specify how
indentations should be spaced and to provide detailed answers
to other concerns.      Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference specifically approved the contents
of this Chapter.

       The Conference in March, 1982 (Conf. Rept. p. 12)
requested the Committee to reconsider the question of
whether the Conference should forbid reporters to engage in
outside reporting work.   Judge Hunter pointed out that


                             11
although 28 U.S.C. 753 clearly contemplates that reporters
may engage in outside reporting activities, some courts have
found it necessary to limit or prohibit outside activity so that
reporters would have the time and energy to produce transcript
in a timely manner for the parties and the courts of appeals.
Other courts have derived benefits from their reporters'
participation in outside firms, finding that they have been
furnished qualified substitutes and that the problems of
obtaining transcripts in a timely manner had been eliminated
by virtue of additional resources. Of the 220 district judges
who responded to a survey conducted by the Committee, 60
percent were not in favor of a blanket prohibition of outside
reporting work by the Conference. Furthermore, district
courts are now developing court reporter management plans
which, if properly implemented, should prevent abuse in the
use of substitutes as well as avoid transcript backlog caused by
outside reporting. Proper management of reporting services
and the recently adopted disincentives to late transcript
production should eliminate any problems that remain. The
Committee therefore recommended that the Conference
reaffirm its policy adopted in March, 1980 (Conf. Rept. p. 19)
that the matter of outside reporting continue to be left to the
discretion of each individual court; however, where there is a
conflict between official and private reporting, the reporter
should be required to postpone any outside work.


          ADDITIONAL SUPPORTING PERSONNEL

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that a request of
the judges of the Southern District of New York for two pool
secretarial positions in order to provide backup secretarial
assistance in the event of illness or overflow of work to be
done has been approved by the Committee for inclusion by the
Committee on the Budget'in the budget request for the fiscal
year 1985.


                 DISTRIBUTION OF REPORTS

       At the request of Chief Judge Manuel L. Real the
Committee was authorized to consider whether the circulation
of Conference reports or other reports to all judges might be
curtailed.




                              12
                COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET 


       Chief Judge Charles Clark, Chairman of the Committee
on the Budget, submitted the report of the Committee.

       Judge Clark advised the Conference that hearings on
the appropriation requests for the Judiciary for the fiscal year
1984 and requests for supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year 1983 were held before the House Appropriations
subcommittee on March 14 and 15, 1983. The requested funds
for the fiscal year 1984 were in the amount of $852,650,000, an
increase of $84,663,000 over the authorized expenditures for
the fiscal year 1983 including supplemental requests in the
amount of $32,350,000, of which $24,100,000 is to cover the
costs of recent pay increases. Judge Clark stated that
hearings will be held in the Senate during the month of April.


               JUDICIAL ETIUCS COMMITTEE

        Judge Edward A. Tamm, Chairman of the statutory
Committee on Judicial Ethics, presented the Committee's
report.


           DISTRIBUTION OF REPORTING FORMS

       Judge Tamm informed the Conference that the
Financial Disclosure Reporting Forms and Instructions for the
calendar year 1982 were distributed to judicial officers and
judicial employees early in January, 1983. The Committee
hopes that this early availability of the forms will make it
possible for reporting individuals to complete their reports at
the same time income tax returns are prepared. This year the
Committee requested that disclosure reports be filed with the
Committee at an early date to avoid the crunch of last minute
filings which in previous years has overburdened the staff of
the Chairman.


        REFERENCES TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

       The Committee had previously adopted a procedure
requiring the unanimous affirmative approval of all Committee
members before a reference would be made to the Attorney
General for failure to file a disclosure report or failure to file


                               13
a complete report. Realizing that the illness or unavailability
of one Committee member would make this procedure
unworkable, the Committee adopted the following amendment
to its procedures:

      A reference to the Attorney General requires the
      affirm a ti ve vote of at least 10mem bers of the
      Committee in attendance at a duly noticed
      regular or specially held meeting of the
      Committee.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference authorized the inclusion of the above change in
this report of Conference proceedings for the information of
those who are required to file disclosure statements.


                    REVIEW OF REPORTS

       Last year the Director of the Administrative Office
provided professional assistance to the Committee on a pilot
basis for the purpose of conducting a preliminary audit of all
financial disclosure reports for the calendar year 1981. Judge
Tamm advised the Conference that the Committee has
requested the Director to provide this same type of assistance
to the Committee to conduct a preliminary audit for one more
year on a continuing pilot basis.


     ADVISORY COMMlTI'EE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

      Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the
Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct, presented the
Committee's report.


              ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE

        Chief Judge Markey informed the Conference that since
its last report the Committee had received 21 inquiries from
persons subject to the various Codes of Conduct and had issued
18 advisory responses. Chief Judge Markey also informed the
Conference that the Committee had approved the issuance of a
revised Opinion No. 53 pertaining to the political involvement
of a judge's spouse and had determined to publish an Advisory
Opinion dealing with requests received by judges for


                              14
recommendations of individuals. The Conference was also
advised that the proposed amendment to 28 U.s.C. 455 to
enable a judge to consider the effect of disqualification on the
public interest in certain limited circumstances, previously
approved by the Conference, had been scheduled for hearings
in the Congress.


       CODES OF CONDUCT FOR CLERKS OF COURT
              AND PROBATION OFFICERS
       The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved a change in Canon 5B of the Codes of
Conduct for clerks of court and probation officers to eliminate
the uncertainty arising from a difference in language in similar
provisions of the Codes of Conduct for Staff Attorneys, Circuit
Executives, and Law Clerks.


        COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF 

          THE FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM 


      The report of the Committee on the Administration of
the Federal Magistrates System was presented by the
Chairman, Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jr.


              JUDICIAL REFORM ACT OF 1982

      Judge Skopil stated that, at the request of the
Committee on Court Administration, the Committee had
reviewed two provisions of S. 3018, 97th Congress, the
proposed JUdicial Reform Act of 1982.

       Section 132 of the bill would restrict the authority of
district judges to refer habeas corpus petitions filed by state
prisoners to magistrates for report and recommendation if an
evidentiary hearing would be required. The bill would permit
magistrates to be empowered to hear these matters only upon
the consent of all the parties. The Conference had previously
expressed its opposition to legislative proposals either
prohibiting or mandating the reference of specific classes of
cases to magistrates. The Conference reaffirmed its previous
action and expressed its opposition to Section 132 of the bill.




                              15
        Part C of Title II of the bill would remove the power of
district courts to appoint magistrates and would vest that
authority in the President. The Committee pointed out that
district judges have the most familiarity with the
qualifications of the candidates and the most direct self­
interest in the selection of competent magistrates.
Furthermore, the Supreme Court's decision in the case of
Northern Pipeline Construction Co. v. Marathon Pipe Line Co.,
102 Sup. Ct. 2858 (1982), has raised the possibility that such a
change in the appointment process may have adverse
implications on the constitutionality of the magistrates
system. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference expressed its opposition to this provision of the
bill.


          SALARIES OF PART-TIME MAGISTRATES

       Judge Skopil stated that the government-wide
comparability or cost-of-living salary adjustments are not
applied automatically to the salaries of part-time magistrates,
but require the affirmative action of the Conference. The
salary levels for part-time magistrates (except those at the
maximum salary level) have not been adjusted since October 1,
1979.    Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference granted the most recent 4 percent comparability
increase to all part-time magistrates.

       In the light of the recent increase in the salaries of full­
time United States magistrates to $63,600 per annum and the
recent surveys of each of the part-time positions involved, the
Conference, upon the recommendation of the Committee,
further increased the maximum salary level now paid to part­
time magistrates to the new statutory maximum of $3r,800 per
annum. In addition the Conference granted this same salary
increase to the three part-time bankruptcy judges who also
serve as part-time magistrates and directed that future salary
increases for full-time magistrates and bankruptcy judges be
applied automatically to these combination positions in order
to maintain the existing parity of their aggregate
compensation with that of a full-time magistrate or
bankruptcy judge.

      The new salary l evels          authorized   for   part-time
magistrates are as follows:



                               16 

        Level 16    ·.....................                       $   31,800 

        Level 15    · .....................                      $   27,820 

        Level 14    · .....................                      $   24,024 

        Level13     · .....................                      $   21,112 

        Level 12    · .....................                      $   18,616 

        Level 11    · .....................                      $   16,120 

        Level 10     · .....................                     $   14,144 

        Level 9    ·......................                       $   12,272 

        Level 8    · . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $   10,400
        Level 7    · ......................                      $    8,528 

        Level 6    · ......................                      $    6,656 

        Level 5    ·......................                       $    4,680 

        Level 4    · . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .   $    3,744
        Level 3    ·......................                       $    2,808 

        Level 2    · ......................                      $    1,872 

        Levell     · ......................                      $      936 



                      TRAVEL REGULATIONS

       Under existing law the travel expenses of Article III
judges and bankruptcy judges are reimbursable according to
regulations promulgated by the Director of the Administrative
Office under 28 U.S.C. 456, but the travel expenses of
magistrates are reimbursed under regulations governing other
court officers and employees. Judge Skopil pointed out that
the Conference had previously established a policy of
according parity of treatment to United States magistrates and
bankruptcy judges.       Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference recommended the enactment of
appropriate legislation to permit the Director of the
Administrative Office and the Conference to establish travel
regulations for magistrates in a manner similar to that now
provided for bankruptcy judges.


           CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

       After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts and the judicial councils of the
circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
magistrate positions.      Unless otherwise indicated, these
changes are to become effective when appropriated funds are
available. The salaries of full-time magistrate positions are to


                                     17
be determined in accordance with the salary plan previously
adopted by the Conference.        The salaries for part-time
magistrate positions include the comparability adjustments
authorized by the Conf erence at this session.

                       SECOND CIRCUIT

Connecticut:

      0) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at
              Hartford for an additional eight-year term.

New York, Southern:

      0) 	 Continued the three full-time magistrate positions
              at New York City (which are due to expire on
              November 30, 1983, August 2, 1984, and December
              29, 1984 respectively) for additional eight-year
              terms.
      (2) 	 Authorized the appointment of an eighth full-time
            magistrate position at New York City.

New York, Western:
      0) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
              position at Rochester from $2,700 per annum to
              $31,800 per annum.
      (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at
            Elmira, Niagara Falls, and Olean, upon the
            increase in salary of the part-time magistrate
            position at Rochester.
                         THIRD CIRCUIT

New Jersey:

      (1) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
              Newark, which is due to expire on February 1,
              1984, for an additional eight-year term.

      (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Atlantic City for an additional four-year term at
            the currently authorized salary of $1,872 per
            annum.


                               18 

Pennsylvania, Eastern:
      (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
               position at Allentown from $3,600 per annum to
               $6,656 per annum.
      (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
            Reading effective upon the implementation of the
            increase in salary of the part-time magistrate
            position at Allentown.

                         FOURTH CIRCUIT

South Carolina:

      (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at
               Charleston for an additional eight-year term.
West Virginia, Southern:

      (1) 	 Designated      the existing part-time magistrate
               position at Parkersburg, formerly in the Northern
               District of West Virginia, to serve in the Southern
               District of West Virginia.

                          FIFTH CIRCUIT

Mississippi, Northern:
       (1) 	   Continued the authorization for the clerk of court
               at Oxford to perform the duties of a part-time
               magistrate for an additional four-year term at no
               additional compensation.
Texas, Northern:
       (1) 	   Converted the combination bankruptcy judge­
               magistrate position at Lubbock to a full-time
               magistrate position.

       (2) 	 Authorized the court to split the combination
             bankruptcy judge-magistrate position at Lubbock
             and establish a part-time magistrate position at
             Lubbock at a salary of $31,800, to serve until the
             appointment of a full-time magistrate at that
             location.


                                19 

      (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Wichita Falls for an additional four-year term.
      (4) 	 Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
            position at Wichita Falls from $8,200 per annum to
            $6,656 per annum.
      (5) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Abilene for an additional four-year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $936 per annum.

Texas, Eastern:
      (1) 	 Authorized the appointment of a second full-time
               magistrate position at Beaumont.

      (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
            position at Sherman from $10,000 per annum to
            $31,800 per annum.

Texas, Southern:

      (I) 	 Converted the part-tim e magistrate position at
               Brownsville to a full-time magistrate position.
Texas, Western:
       (1) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate ppsition at
               Del Rio to a full-time magistrate position to serve
               at Del Rio (or Eagle Pass).

      (2) 	 Authorized a salary of $43,600 per annum for the
            full-time magistrate position at Del Rio (or Eagle
            Pass).

       (3) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Eagle Pass, upon the appointment of a full-time
             magistrate at Del Rio (or Eagle Pass).

                          SIXTH CIRCUIT

Kentucky, Eastern:
       (1) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
               Ashland (or Catlettsburg) for an additional eight­
               year term.


                                20
Michigan, Eastern:

       (1)     Authorized the appointment of a seventh full-time
               magistrate at Detroit.

Ohio, Southern:

       (I)     Continued the full-time magistrate position at
               Cincinnati for an additional eight-year term.

                        SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Illinois, Northern:

       (1)     Continued the part-time magistrate position at
               Freeport (or Rockford) for an additional four-year
               term.
       (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             at Freeport (or Rockford) from $26,750 per annum
             to $31,800 per annum.

Illinois, Central:

       (I) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
               position at Peoria from $6,400 per annum to
               $31,800 per annum.

Indiana, Northern:
       (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
               Fort Wayne for an additional four-year term at the
               currently authorized salary of $3,744 per annum.
Wisconsin, Eastern:
       (I) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at
               Milwaukee to a full-time magistrate position.

       (2) 	 Authorized the clerk of court to serve as a back­
             up, part-time magistrate, at no additional
             compensation until the appointment of a new full­
             time magistrate at Milwaukee.

       (3) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Fond du Lac.


                                21 

                          EIGHTH CIRCUIT 


Minnesota:
         (1) 	   Converted the combination bankruptcy judge­
                 magistrate position at Duluth to a full-time
                 magistrate position.

Nebraska:

         (1) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
                 Omaha for an additional eight-year term.
North Dakota:
         (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                 Fargo for an additional four-year term at the
                 currently authorized salary of $4,680 per annum.

         (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
               position at Minot from $2,700 per annum to $4,680
               per annum.

                           NINTH CIRCUIT

Calif ornia, Northern:
         (1) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
                 Oakland to a full-time magistrate position at
                 Oakland or San Francisco.
California, Southern:

         (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at El
                 Centro for an additional four-year term at the
                 currently authorized salary of $27,820 per annum.

Idaho:
         (1) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
                 Boise to a full-time magistrate position.

         (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
               Boise for an additional four-year term or until the
               appointment of a full-time magistrate, at the
               currently authorized salary of $27,820 per annum.


                                 22
        (3)   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
              position at Pocatello from $3,600 per annum to
              $8,528 per annum.

        (4)   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
              position at Coeur d'Alene from $2,700 per annum
              to $8,528 per annum.

        (5)   Changed the location of the part-time magistrate
              position at Coeur d'Alene to "Coeur d'Alene or
              Moscow."

        (6)   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
              Lewiston effective upon implementation of the
              increase in salary of the part-time magistrate
              position at Coeur d'Alene.

        (7)   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
              Twin Falls effective upon implementation of the
              increase in salary of the part-time magistrate
              position at Pocatello.

Nevada:

        (1)   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
              position at Las Vegas from $900 per annum to
              $24,024 per annum.

                        TENTH CIRCUIT
Colorado:

        (1)   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
              Denver, which is due to expire on October 5, 1983,
              for an additional eight-year term.
Utah:

        (1)   Authorized a part-time magistrate position at Salt
              Lake City, at a salary of $31,800 per annum.

        (2)   Discontinued the authority of the clerk of court at
              Salt Lake City to perform magistrate duties upon
              the appointment of a part-time magistrate at that
              location.



                               23
Wyoming:

      (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              Jackson for an additional four-year term at the
              currently authorized salary of $4,680 per annum.
      (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Rawlins for an additional four-year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $936 per annum.

                      ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Alabama, Northern:

      (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              Decatur (or Huntsville) for an additional four-year
              term at the currently authorized salary of $4,680
              per annum.

Florida, Southern:

       (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
              position at Key West from $6,400 per annum to
              $21,112 per annum.

Georgia, Northern:

       (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
              position at Gainesville from $6,400 per annum to
              $8,528 per annum.
       (2) 	 Authorized     the    part-time     magistrate     at
             Gainesville to exercise jurisdiction in the adjoining
             Middle District of Georgia.

Georgia, Middle:

       (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              Columbus for an additional four-year term at the
              currently authorized salary of $16,120 per annum.

       (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Macon for an additional four-year term.

       (3) 	 Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Macon from $15,500 per annum to
             $10,400 per annum.


                               24 

      (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Albany for an additional four-year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $4,680 per annum.

      (5) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
            Athens.
Georgia, Southern:

      (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Brunswick (or Waycross) for an additional four­
            year term at the currently authorized salary of
            $6,656 per annum.

       At the request of Chief Judge Godbold, the Executive
Committee of the Conference was authorized to consider
promptly any recommendation emanating from the next
meeting of the Magistrates Committee for an additional fuU-     '"
time magistrate position at Montgomery in the Middle District
of Alabama.


          COMMlM'EE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
             OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

       Judge Robert E. DeMascio, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System, presented the
Commmitteets report.


       ARRANGEMENTS FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

       The Conference upon the recommendation of the
Committee took the following action with respect to changes
in arrangements for bankruptcy judges. These changes are to
become effective when appropriated funds are available.
                      FOURTH CIRCUIT

Northern and Southern Districts of West Virginia:

      (1) 	 Authorized concurrent State-wide jurisdiction for
            the bankruptcy judges of the Northern and
            Southern Districts of West Virginia.




                             25
                       NINTH CIRCUIT 


District of Oregon:

      (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time bankruptcy
            judge at Eugene from $28,800 per annum to
            $31,800 per annum.


               GUIDELINES FOR CHAPTER 13 

                    ADMINISTRATION 


       The Guidelines for the administration of Chapter 13
cases, previously adopted by the Conference, require Standing
Chapter 13 Trustees with receipts in excess of $100,000 per
annum to have an annual audit of their accounts by an
independent auditor. The Committee pointed out that the cost
of such an audit has risen substantially over the past ten years
and, as a consequence, a trustee whose receipts are in the
range of $100,000 is unable to pay for an audit and remain
within the five percent limit on costs imposed by the
Bankruptcy Code. It was the view of the Committee that the
Guidelines should be modified to require an annual audit only
when the receipts of the Standing Trustee for a l2-month
period exceed $200,000. Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference amended Guideline No.2 to read as
follows:

       Where the annual receipts of the Standing
       Chapter 13 trustee are equal to or exceed
       $200,000, there should be an annual audit by an
       independent auditor.


                 BANKRUPTCY WORKLOAD

        Judge DeMascio informed the Conference that the
Committee had requested the Administrative Office to develop
statistical information on bankruptcy case filings and workload
on a county-by-county basis. The Committee believes this
information will be useful in determining whether to expand or
reduce the number of places of holding bankruptcy court. This
information is scheduled to be reviewed at the next meeting
and the Committee hopes to present an analysis at the next
session of the Conference.



                              26
               BANKRUPTCY LEGISLATION

       The Conference reviewed the various proposals pending
in the 98th Congress which address the issue of bankruptcy
jurisdiction arising out of the Supreme Court decision in the
Northern Pi'fellne case. After full discussion the Conference
adopted the ollowing statement:

           There is no present crisis in the operation
      of the bankruptcy court system. Members of the
      Judicial Conference of the United States
      unanimously agree that the Model Rule for the
      Continued Operation of the Bankruptcy Court
      System is working well.        The district and
      bankruptcy judges are administering the business
      of the bankruptcy courts effectively.

           Since March of 1977 the Judicial
      Conference has strongly opposed the creation of
      a separate court for bankruptcy proceedings
      whether constituted under Article I or Article III
      of the Constitution.           The Conference
      recommends that the Congress not enact H.R. 3,
      98th Congress, or any bill, that creates separate
      Article III bankruptcy courts.

            The Supreme Court in Northern Pi~eline
      invalidated part of the jurisdiction con erred
      upon existing departmental bankruptcy courts in
      the 1978 Bankruptcy Reform Act. Congress must
      decide whether to clarify bankruptcy jurisdiction
      or restructure bankruptcy courts.
           If Congress decides to clarify jurisdiction
      the Judicial Conference recommends legislation
      that will statutorily authorize those procedures
      now employed under the Model Rule for the
      Continued Operation of the Bankruptcy Court
      System.

           If Congress decides to restructure the
      bankruptcy courts, the Judicial Conference
      supports the concepts embodied in S. 443, 98th
      Congress, and opposes those embodied in H.R. 3.




                             27
            The Judicial Conference reaffirms its
      September     1982    recommendation for   24
      additional appellate and 51 district court
      judgeships    previously   requested by  this
      Conference independent of any bankruptcy
      am endm ents.


          COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION 

             OF THE PROBATION SYSTEM 


       Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat, Chairman of the Committee on
the Administration of the Probation System, presented the
report of the Committee.


                   SENTENCING REFORM

       The Conference in September, 1982 (Conf. Rept. p. 88)
authorized the Committee to draft legislative alternatives to
the creation of an independent commission on sentencing, the
appellate review of sentences and the creation of
comprehensive statutory sentencing procedures contained in
various bills introduced in the Congress in recent years. Judge
Tjoflat reviewed the history of the proposals relating to
sentencing reform and submitted to the Conference a
Committee-approved draft bill which would, in the view of the
Committee, prescribe a more workable sentencing model at far
less cost than any of the bills now being considered in the
Congress. The proposed bill has three major features:
       1. 	 A requirement that the court at the time of
           sentenCing state how long a defendant will
           serve if the rules of the institution on
           confinement are observed.

       2. 	 The promulgation of sentencing guidelines by
            the Judicial Conference upon the advice of a
            Committee on Sentencing Guidelines with
            authority in the sentenCing judge to depart
            from the guidelines if the purposes of
            sentencing are best served by departure.

       3. 	 Authority for either the Government or the
            defendant to appeal a sentence on the ground
            it was imposed as a result of incorrect


                             28
           application of the guidelines, or in violation
           of prescribed procedures, or otherwise in
           violation of the laws or Constitution. A
           sentence imposed outside the guidelines
           would be reviewable only if "plainly
           inappropriate." An appeal by the government
           would require the personal approval of the
           Attorney General or the Solicitor General.

    The Conference approved the draft bill submitted by the
Committee and authorized its transmission to the Congress.

                  SENTENCING INSTITUTES

       The Conference in September, 1982 (Conf. Rept. p. 87)
approved the time, place, participants, and tentative agenda
for a Joint Institute on Sentencing for the judges of the Fourth
and Eleventh Circuits to be held at a location near the Federal
Correctional Institution at Butner, North Carolina, April 18-20,
1983. The Committee submitted the final agenda for the
Sentencing Institute which the Conference approved.

       Judge Tjoflat informed the Conference that the
Committee is also considering plans for an Institute for the
First, Third and District of Columbia Circuits to be held at the
Federal Correctional Institution at Otisville, New York, in the
Spring of 1984. The Committee has asked the chief judges in
all three circuits to appoint judges to a planning committee.

         COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF 

                 THE CRIMINAL LAW 


       Judge Alexander Harvey II, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Criminal Law, presented the
report of the Committee.


                BAIL REFORM LEGISLATION

      Judge Harvey informed the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed a draft bill, submitted for its
consideration by the Chairman of the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Courts, Civil Liberties, and the
Administration of Justice, which would amend the Bail Reform


                              29
Act of 1966. The draft bill would authorize a judicial officer
in setting bail to consider "danger to other persons or the
community" in the setting of conditions of pretrial release, as
previously recommended by the Conference. (Conf. Rept.
September 1971, p. 80; March 1977, p. 17; and September 1981,
p. 92). The Committee suggested the following amendments to
the draft bill:

       (I) 	 That the judicial officer be permitted to
            state his reasons for imposing any special
            conditions of release orally on the record as
            well as in writing.

      (2) 	 That a hearing upon a government motion
            that a person be detained for violation of a
            condition of release imposed to assure the
            safety of other persons and the community
            be held promptly rather than within a
            specific time period and that the order
            following the hearing also be entered
            promptly.

      (3) 	 That a judicial officer not be required to
            find that there was "substantial probability
            that the accused committed the original
            offense with respect to which release was
            originally granted" before ordering the
            pretrial detention of a person f oUQd to have
            violated a condition of his release.
      (4) 	 That the provision of the bill requiring a
            pretrial detainee to be brought to trial
            within a specified number of days be
            eliminated as duplicative of provisions of
            the Speedy Trial Act.

       (5) 	 That the bill not include a requirement that
             discovery before a pretrial detention
             hearing be "as full and free as possible,
             consistent with the defendant's rights under
             the Fifth Amendment to the United States
             Constitution."

       (6) 	 That specific provisions for the place and
             conditions of confinement of a person
             ordered detained pending trial not be
             included in the bill.


                              30 

          (7) 	 That the provIsIon making disclosure of
                pretrial detention to the jury grounds for a
                mistrial in all cases not be included in the
               bill.

          (8) 	 That the provISIOn that a defendant
                convicted of an offense be given credit
                against any term of imprisonment for time
                spent in custody pursuant to an order of
                pretrial detention be stricken as duplicative
                of exis ting law.

          The Conference thereupon approved the Committee's
report.


               COMMrITEE ON THE OPERATION OF 

                     THE JURY SYSTEM 


        Judge T. Emmet Clarie, Chairman of the Committee on
the Operation of the Jury System, presented the Committee's
report.


               GRAND JURY REFORM LEGISLATION

       Judge Clarie informed the Conference that the House of
Delegates of the American Bar Association, at its meeting in
January 1982, approved a Model Grand Jury Act which
incorporates many of the reforms in grand jury procedures
recently proposed in Congress and elsewhere. Judge Clarie
stated that a subcommittee of the Jury Committee had
concluded, after a thorough review of the Model Act, that
although certain provisions were desirable, many others were
undesirable and were in conflict with positions previously taken
by the Conference. The Committee therefore recommended
that the Model Act be disapproved by the Conference.

      After full discussion the Conference accepted the
Subcommittee's report on the Model Grand Jury Act and voted
to recommend that the Model Act not be enacted into law.
The Subcom mittee's report should be a valuable resource to
those considering Grand Jury Reform and is available to
Congress or others who wish to address the issue.




                                 31
      COMMrM'EE ON INTERcmcurr ASSIGNMENTS

       The written report of the Committee on Intercircuit
Assignments, submitted by the Chairman, Judge George L.
Hart, Jr., was received by the Conference.
       The report indicated that during the period August 15,
1982 to February 15, 1983, the Committee recommended 83
intercircuit assignments to be undertaken by 64 judges. Of this
number 14 were senior circuit judges, 6 were active circuit
judges, 30 were senior district judges, 10 were active district
judges, 3 were active judges of the Court of Internatiortal
Trade and 1 was an active bankruptcy judge.

       Thirty-six judges undertook 46 assignm ents to the courts
of appeals and 31 judges undertook 36 assignments to district
courts. In addition, one active bankruptcy judge was assigned
to assist a bankruptcy court outside the circuit.


              COMMlM"EE TO IMPLEMENT THE 

                 CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT 


      Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the Committee
to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented the report of
the Committee.


              APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

       Judge MacBride submitted to the Conference a report
on appointments and payments under the Criminal Justice Act
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1982. The report
indicated that Congress appropriated $28,670,000 for
"Defender Services" for the fiscal year 1982 and that an
unobligated balance of approximately $2,000,000 had been
carried forward from the fiscal year 1981 making a total of
$30,670,000 available for obligations during the year. The
Committee estimated that the entire amount available for the
fiscal year 1982 will be expended.

       During the year approximately 46,000 persons were
represented under the Criminal Justice Act, compared to
     °
44,41 persons represented during the fiscal year 1981, an
increase of 3.6 percent. Of these persons Federal Public and
Community Defender Organizations represented 22,677 or 49.3


                              32
percent of the total representations, compared to 50.7 percent
in the fiscal year 1981, and 49.5 percent in the fiscal year
1980.

       The Conference authorized the Director of the
Administrative Office to distribute copies of the report to all
chief judges, to all Federal Defender Organizations, and to
others who may request copies.


                   BUDGET REQUESTS ­
               FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS 


       The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved supplemental funding for the Federal
Public Defender Organization for the Eastern District of
California for the fiscal year 1983 in the amount of $25,343 for
the purpose of adding one attorney position to the staff of the
branch office located in Fresno.


       GRANT REQUESTS - COMMUNITY DEFENDER
                 OR GANIZATIONS

       A t its session in September, 1982 (Conf. Rept. p. 11 0)
the Conference deferred consideration of the funding level for
the Community Defender Organization in the District of
Oregon. Judge MacBride informed the Conference that since
then the Executive Director of the Community Defender
Organization has submitted his resignation to be effective May
31, 1983 and that the judges of the District of Oregon have
decided to amend their Criminal Justice Act plan to provide
for the establishment of a Federal Public Defender
Organization to replace the existing Community Defender
Organization. The amended plan has been submitted to the
Judicial Council of the Ninth Circuit for approval. Because of
these developments the Committee recommended that the
Conference approve supplemental funds for the fiscal year
1983 in the amount of $77,766 and funds for the fiscal year
1984 in the amount of $516,260 for "Federal Defender tl
Organization activities within the District of Oregon, with the
proviso that the Director of the Administrative Office will be
authorized to direct or redirect all or any part of available
past or future approved funding to any newly established
Federal Defender Organization for the district, and to make
such adjustments to the funding levels as is necessary or


                              33
appropriate to meet the needs of providing for the effective
implementation of the Criminal Justice Act in that district,
consistent with the Director's authority to approve and modify
supplemental funding. This recommendation was approved by
the Conference.


                        GUIDELINES

       The Committee submitted to the Conference the
following amendments to the Guidelines for the Administration
of the Criminal Justice Act which were approved by the
Conference:

       1. 	 An amendment to Paragraph 2.01 D., and a
            new Appendix G to include a reference to
            and the text of the "Model Plan for the
            Compensation,       Administration,      and
            Management of the Panel of Private
            Attorneys under the Criminal Justice Act".

       2. 	 Amendments to Paragraphs 2.18 and 4.04 to
            provide    that    Criminal  Justice    Act
            appointments be made in the name of the
            Federal Defender Organization, rather than
            in the name of individual staff attorneys
            within the Federal Defender Organization.

       3. 	 An amendment to Paragraph 4.02 A. to
            conform this section to a recent statutory
            change placing the power to appoint Federal
            Public Defenders in the courts of appeals
            rather than the judicial councils of the
            circuits.


           COMMlM'BB ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES

       Judge Anthony M. Kennedy, Chairman of the
Committee on Pacific Territories, presented the Committee's
report.

       Judge Kennedy informed the Conference that the
Committee held public hearings in Guam and Saipan during
January, 1982, on court structure and jurisdiction in these
territories. Various problems relating to the courts in these


                              34
territories and solutions thereto were presented at the hearing
and numerous written comments were received from concerned
parties. Based upon this study the Committee recommended
the enactment of legislation to accomplish the following:

      (1) 	 Authorize  the Guam legislature in its
            discretion to establish a local appellate
            court.

      (2) 	 Grant diversity-type jurisdiction to the
            District Court of Guam.

      (3) 	 Authorize appeals from decisions of the
            District Court of the Northern Mariana
            Islands directly to the Court of Appeals for
            the Ninth Circuit without a previous review
            by the appellate division of the district
            court.

      (4) 	 Authorize appeals from decisions of the
            local courts on Guam and the Northern
            Mariana Islands, as well as the District
            Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, to
            the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

      (5) 	 Maintain jurisdiction of the District Court
            for the Northern Mariana Islands over the
            Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
            without statutory alteration until the case
            law exploring existing jurisdiction is more
            fully developed.

       (6) 	 Provide for a study of the United States
             Code as it relates to these territories so
             that any anomalies in the judicial process
             may be eliminated or other statutory
             changes made.

      These recommendations         of   the   Committee   were
approved by the Conference.




                             35 

        AD HOC COMMITTEE ON THE LAW CLERK 

                SELECTION PROCESS 


       Judge Carl McGowan, Chairman of the Ad Hoc
Committee on the Law Clerk Selection Process, reported that
the Committee had met with representatives of law schools
and had explored with them, and with other judges, the
prospects of coordinating the selection of law clerks by
Federal judges to avoid the confusion that now exists. The
Committee proposed a resolution establishing a policy with
respect to the selection of law clerks by the Federal judiciary
which was agreed to by the Conference and authorized to be
distributed immediately to all judges together with an
appropriate explanation.     The resolution adopted by the
Conference is as follows:

      Applications for law clerkships will neither be
      received nor considered prior to September 15 in
      a student's third year of law school. This policy
      shall be effective immediately for a trial period
      of two years, at which time it will be reexamined
      by the Conference at its March 1985 meeting in
      light of the experience under it and with the
      benefit of the views of all federal judges formed
      by reference to that experience.

        COMMrrTEE TO REVIEW cmcurr COUNCIL 

          CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS 


       The written report of the Committee to Review Circuit
Council Conduct and Disability Orders, submitted by the
Chairman, Judge Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr., was received by
the Conference. Since its last report to the Conference the
Committee has issued only one opinion which concluded that
under 28 U.S.C. 372(c)(lO) only the judicial council of the
circuit has jurisdiction to review dismissals of complaints by
chief circuit judges under 28 U.S.C. 372(c)(3). No further
review is provided. Accordingly the Committee advised that
all petitions to the Conference to review dismissal orders of
chief circuit judges will be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.




                              36 

                COURTROOM PHOTOGRAPHS 


       The Chief Justice informed the Conference that a group
of television and news media organizations had formally
petitioned the Conference to review the provisions of the Code
of Judicial Conduct and the Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure prohibiting the use of cameras in the courtroom
during the conduct of court proceedings. The petition will be
referred to an appropriate Committee of the Conference.


                         ELECTIONS

       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 62 I(a)(2), elected
Judge Howard C. Bratton to membership on the Board of the
Federal Judicial Center for a term of four years succeeding
Judge Theodore Voorhees whose term expires on March 28,
1983. The Conference also elected Judge Daniel M. Friedman
to membership on the Board of the Federal Judicial Center to
succeed Judge John D. Butzner, Jr., who has become a senior
judge.

        The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 332(f), elected
Judge John H. Pratt to membership on the Board of
Certification for Circuit Executives to succeed Judge George
E. MacKinnon who has resigned effective March 31,1983, and
to serve until July 1, 1986; and reelected Mr. John W. Macy,
Jr., for a term of three years, until July 1, 1986.

                 PRETERMIS:;ION OF TERMS 

                OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS 


      The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the
pretermission of terms of the United States Court of Appeals
for the Tenth Circuit at Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and
Wichita, Kansas during the calendar year 1983.




                              37 

           RELEASE OF CONFERENCE AC'l10N

       The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for
legislative or administrative action.




                        Warren E. Burger
                        Chief Justice of the United States

May 27, 1983




                           38 

                                                    INDEX 


                                                                                              Page
Additional Judgeships •••••••••••••••••••••••••••.••••••• 6,28
Administrative Office, U. S. Courts
  Report of the Director. • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4
    8tatistical Records . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6
Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.. ..•• •                                    7
Appointments and Payments, CJA •• • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • •                 32
A ttorney General ••.••••••.••••.•••••••••.•.••••••••••.                                       14
Bail Reform Legislation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      29
Bankrutpcy System:
   Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges ••••••••••••••••••                                      25
   Bankruptcy Legislation. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •        27
    Bankruptcy Workload ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                      26
   Chapter 13 Administration; Guidelines on. . • • • • • • • • • • • • .                      26
   Committee on, Report of •.••••••••• " • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • •                    25
Boards:
   Certification; Election to •••••••••••••••••••••••.•••• 37
   Federal Judicial Center; Election to .•••••••••••••••••• 37
Budget:
   Additional Supporting Personnel. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 12
   Committee on, Report of. • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • . • • • • • • 13
   Requests, Federal Public Defenders..... •• • • •••••• • •• • • 33
Cameras in Courtroom (see Photographs)
Cases cited:
    Maine v. Thiboutot .•......•..........•...•...•......                                      8

    Mitchum v. Poster. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . .     8

   Northern Pipeline v. Marathon •••.•••••••••..•••••••• J6,27
   Owen v. City of Independence. • • • • • • •• • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • •        8
Certification Board; Election to • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 37
Clerks of Court:
    Codes of Conduct for. • . . . . • . . • • . . • • . • • • • • • • . • . • • . • • •        15
Codes of Conduct:
   Activities of the Committee. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • 14
   Advisory Committee on, Report of •••••••••••••••••••• 14
   Clerks of Court and Probation Officers. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 15
Community Defenders Organizations, Grant Requests....... 33
Conduct and Disability Orders; Committee to
   Review Circuit Council. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • 36
Court Administration:
   Administrative Office Statistical Records ••••••••.•.•••                          6
   Advisory Commission on Intergovernment Relations... •••                           7
   Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •  5
   Court Reporters •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• II

                                                 39
     Depository Libraries. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •         9
     Distribution of Reports ...............................                                      12
     Habeas Corpus Reform ••• " • " •••• " ••••• " •• " " a . • • • • • • •                 " •    7
  Judgeships; Additional •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                              6
  JUdicial Reform Act of 1982 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •     7
  Places of Holding Court. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 10
  Salaries of Article I Judges and Supporting
    Judicial Officers .. ""...... ". "". """"". ""... ".. """""" 9
  Supervisory Staff Attorneys •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 10
  Supporting PersoMel •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 12
Court Reporters:
     M811ual for ••• """""".""" •• "•• "" ••• """."."" •• ",,.,,,,...                             11
    Outside Employment .••• " • " •• " .• " " .. " " ••• " • " • " •• " " • " •                   11
    Transcript Format. "."."" .. "",, ......... "... "".""""",,.                                  11 

Courtroom Photographs. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            37
Courts:
   Appeals; Pretermission of Terms ••••• ~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                        37
   District; Places of Holding •••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                        10
Criminal Justice Act:
   Appointments and Payments. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                   32
   Budget Requests, Federal Public Defenders... ••••• •• •••                                      33
   Committee on, Report of••••••••••••• ~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                           32
   Grant Requests, Community Defenders Organizations....                                          33
    Guidelines ...• ".. ". ". ".• "..... "....•••• ". "• "• "..•. "" 34
Criminal Law:
   Bail Reform Legislation. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •             29
   Committee on, Report of ••••••••••••••••• ~ • • • • • • • • • • •                              29
Depository Libraries" """""""""""""""""""""""". """"""""""                                         9
Distribution of Reports •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                         12
ElectioJlS" """"••• ""• """""• """""•• "• """""""""• "• """•• """                                 37
Ethics (See "Judicial Ethics") 

Executive Committee. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •          25 

Federal Judicial Center Board; Election to. •• ••••••••••••• •                                    37 

Federal Public Defenders: 

    Budget Requests ."".................................                                          33 

    Oregon; District of • . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • • . •       33
Financial Disclosure Reports:
    Distribution of . • . . . • • • . . • • • • . . • • . . • • • . • • . • • • • . . . • . • .   13
    References to Attorney General. •••••• •••••••• • •••••• •                                    13
    Review of Reports •••••.••.••..••..•..•••..••..••.••                                          14
Grand Jury Reform Legislation...........................                                          31
Grant Requests; Community Defender Organizations..... •••                                         33
Guidelines:
   Chapter 13 Administration •••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                          26
    Criminal Justice Act •••.••...••.....•.•.•...•...•...                                         34
    Sentenc~          ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••...••••.••• 28
    Staff Attorneys............ . .•.••.•• .••. . .•... ..••..                                    10

                                                     40
Habeas Corpus ........................................ 7,15 

Intercircuit Assignments, Committee on, Report of • •• •• •• •• 32 

Intergovernment Relations; Advisory Commission on ••••••••                                           7

Judges: 

    Article I; Salaries of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9

    Bankruptcy:
     Arrangements for. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 

     Salaries of part-time ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•• 16 

   Supporting Personnel •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 12 

Judgeships; Additional • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • •           6

JUdicial Branch: 

    Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 5

Judicial Conference of the U.S. 

    Call of. . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

    Release of Action. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 

Judicial Ethics: 

   Attorney General; References to •••••••••••••••••••••• 13 

    Committee on; Report of •••••••••••••••••••.••••••••• 13 

    Reporting Forms; Distribution of ••••••••••••••••••.••• 13 

    Review of Reports .................................. 14 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                        5

Judicial Reform Act of 1982 ••••.•••••••••••.••••.••••••• 7,15 

Judicial Survivors Annuity Act. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                  5

Jury System: 

   Committee on, Report of .•••••••.•••••••••••••••••••• 31 

    Grand Jury Reform Legislation •••••••••••••••••••••••• 31 

La w Clerk Selection Process: 

    Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 36 

Legislation: 

   Additional Judgeships ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                            6

   Bail Reform ....................................... . 29 

   Bankruptcy ..........•.............................. 27 

   Depository Libraries ................................ .                                           9

   Grand Jury Reform ..•......•....•................... 31 

   Habeas Corpus Reform ........•..•...................                                              7

   Intergovernment Relations; Advisory Commission on ••••.                                           7

   Judicial Survivors Annuity Act • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • •                    5

   Judicial Reform Act of 1982 •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 7,15 

   Pacific Territories •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 34 

   Places of Holding Court •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 10 

   Salaries of Article I Judges and 

     Supporting Judicial Officers •••••••••••••••••••••••••                                          9

   Sentencing Reform ....•....•...................•.... 28 

   Travel Regulations for Magistrates •••••••••••••••••••• 17 

Libraries ............................................. .                                          9




                                                  41 

Magistrates System:
  Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                   15
  Judicial Reform Act of 1982..........................                                              15
  Magistrates Positions, Changes in •••••••••••••••••••••                                            17
  Salaries of Part-Time Magistrates. • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • •                          16
     Travel Regulations .•....•....•... . . . . • . . • • . • . . • . • • . .                        17
Multidistrict Litigation; Judicial Panel on •••••••••••••••••                             5
National Archives and Records Service. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              6
Northern Pipeline Construction Co. v.
   Marathon Pipe Line Co•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• J6,27
Pacific Territories:
   Committee on, Report of... •••••••• •••• •••••• •••••••• 34
Photographs; Courtroom •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 37
Places of Holding Court. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 10
Pretermission of Terms of Courts of Appeals. •••••• ••• • •••• 37
Probation Officers; Codes of Conduct for.................. 15
Probation System:
   Committee on, Report of. • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 28
   Sentencing Institutes •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•• 29
   Sentencing Reform •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 28
Quadrennial Commission on Salaries. • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5
Release of Conference Action ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 38
Reports; Curtail Distribution of • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 12
Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability:
   Committee on,Report of ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 36
Salaries:                                                         .
   Article I Judges &: Supporting Judicial Officers. •••• • ••••                          9
   Bankruptcy Judges ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• J 6,25
     Magistrates •..•••.••.••....................•..•... J6,17 

   Quadrennial Commission on •••••••••••.••••••••••••••                                               5
Sentencing Institutes •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                            29
Sentencing Reform ••••••••••••• ~ •••••••••••••••••••••••                                            28
Staff Attorneys, Supervisory...... •••••••••••• • •••••• ••••                                        10
Statistics
   Bankruptcy Workload ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                              26
   Records of the Administrative Office. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                            6
Supporting Personnel:
     Additional. . • . . . . • • . . . . . • . • • . • . . . • . . . . . . . • . . . . • . • • • •   12
   Salaries of Judicial Officers ••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                           9
Territorial Courts • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •       34
Travel Regulations ••.•.• • . • • • . . . . . • • . • • • . . • • . . . . • . • . . . .              17




                                                    42 

