              REPORT
                of the
        PROCEEDINGS OF THE
    JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE
           UNITED STATES



           September 21-22, 1983




I
             Watshington, D.C.
                   1983
ADMNSTpATVE OFFICE OF TILE
  UNITED STATES COURTS


       William E. Foley
           Director
          REPORT
            of the
    PROCEEDINGS OF THE
JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE
       UNITED STATES



       September 21-22, 1983




        Washington, D.C.
             1983
    THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331

   ยง331.   JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF TIE UNITED STATES


     The Chief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the chief
                                                                                      judge of each
  judicial circuit, and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at
                                                                                                such
  time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such
                                                                                             confer-
  ence which shall be known as the Judicial Conference of the United States. Special
                                                                                                 ses-
  sions of the conference may be called by the Chief Justice at such times and places as
                                                                                                   he
  may designate.
     The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the
                                                                                                 cir-
  cuit and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit
                                                                                                held
  pursuant to section 333 of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference
                                                                                                  for
  three successive years. except that in the year following the enactment of this amended
  section the judges in the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth circuits shall choose a district
 judge to serve for one year, the judges in the second, fifth, and eighth circuits shall
 choose a district judge to serve for two years and the judges in the third, sixth, ninth, and
  District of Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for three years.
    If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit
 is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon any other circuit or district judge
                                                                                               from
 such circuit. Every judge summoned shall attend and, unless excused by the Chief Justice,
 shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to the needs of his
 circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of which the administration of justice
                                                                                                   in
 the courts of the United States may be improved.
    The Conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
 courts of the United'States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from circuits
 or districts where necessary. It shall also submit suggestions and recommendations to
                                                                                                 the
various courts to promote uniformity of management procedures and the expeditious
                                                                                               con-
duct of court business. The Conference is authorized to exercise the authority provided
                                                                                                  in
section 37 2(c) of this title as the Conference, or through a standing committee. If the
Conference elects to establish a standing committee, it shall be appointed by the
                                                                                              Chief
Justice and all petitions for review shall be reviewed by that committee. The Conference
or the standing committee may hold hearings, take sworn testimony, issue subpoenas and
subpoenas duces tecum, and make necessary and appropriate orders in the exercise of
                                                                                                 its
authority. Subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum shall be issued by the clerk of
                                                                                           the Su-
preme Court or by the clerk of any court of appeals, at the direction of the Chief
                                                                                            Justice
or his designee and under the seal of the court, and shall be served in the manner
                45                                                                             pro-
vided in rule (c) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure for subpoenas and subpoenas
duces tecum issued on behalf of the United States or an officer or any agency thereof.
The Conference may also prescribe and modify rules for the exercise of the authority pro-
vided in section 37 2(c) of this title. All judicial officers and employees of the United
States shall promptly carry into effect all orders of the Judicial Conference or the
                                                                                            stand-
ing committee established pursuant to this section.

   The Conference shall also carry on a continuous study of the operation and effect of
                                                                                           the
general rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as prescribed by the
                                                                                           Su-
preme Court for the other courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes
                                                                                            in
and additions to those rules as the Conference may deen desirable to promote
                                                                                  simplicity
in procedure, faimess in administration, the just determination of litigation, and the
                                                                                        elim-
ination of unjustifiable expense and delay shall be recommended by the Conference
                                                                                        from
time to time to the Supreme Court for its consideration and adoption, modification
                                                                                       or re-
jection, in accordance with law.
   The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice, report to such conference
on matters relating to the business of the several courts of the United States, with
                                                                                     partic-
ular reference to cases to which the United States is a party.
   The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings of
                                                                                          the
Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.
                      TABLE OF CONTENTS

            REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
        JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

                      September 21-22, 1983

                                                             Page
Call of the Conference.............................            41
Report of the Director of the Administrative
   Office of the U.S. Courts.........................          43
      Judicial Business of the Courts...................       44
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ...............     45
Committee on the Judicial Branch.....................          45
  Social Security Amendments Act of 1983..............         45
   Quadrennial Salary Commission ..                            47
Committee on Court Administration                              47
      Electronic Sound Recording ...                           47
      Court Reporters' Annual Leave                            49
      Annual and Sick Leave for Law Clerks
       and Secretaries...........                              49
  Courtroom Facilities..........                               50
  Fees of Court Reporters .......                              51
  Court Reporter Positions ......                              51
  Automation.................                                  52
  Retirement Coverage for Law Clerks...                        53
  Court Quarters and Accommodations ...                        54
  Places of Holding Court..............                        55
  Frivolous Litigation.................                        56
  Habeas Corpus Reform ..........                              56
  Certification of Questions of 'State Law.                    57
  Race to the Courthouse . . ...........                       58
                                                  *
  Limitation on the Jurisdicion of Federal
     Courts Over State Cases ...........                       58
  Federal Tort Claims Act .............                        59
  Discrimination in Employment .........                       59
  Appeals from the International Trade
     Commission and Certifications from
     District Courts to the Court of Appeals
     for the Federal Circuit ............                      60
  Peremptory Challenges of Judges.......                       60
  Additional Judgeships................                        61
  Committee on the Budget..           t .................                   61
    Supplemental Appropriations for the Fiscal
        Year 1984...................................                         61
    Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1985 ................
                                                                             62
    Budget Call....................................                          63
 Judicial Ethics Committee...........................
                                                                            63
    Activities of the Committee........................                      63
    Reporting Form and Instructions.....................
 Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct ................                    63
                                                                            64
    Activities of the Committee........................
 Committee on Intercircuit Assignments ..................                   64
                                                                            65
 Committee on Rules of Practice and
    Procedure.....................................                          65
    Rules Enabling Acts..............................                      65
    Operating Procedures.............................
                                                                           66
   Local Rules of court.............................                        67
   Advisory Committees.............................
                                                                           67
 Committee on the Administration of the
   Probation System................................                        67
   Sentencing Reform...............................                        68
   Sentencing Institutes.............................                      69
 Committee on the Administration of the
   Bankruptcy System...............................
   Survey of th Need for Bankruptcy Judges ...............                 69
                                                                           69
   Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges ..................                  70
   Bankruptcy Interim Rule........... ...............                      70
Committee on the Administration of the Federal
   Magistrates System..............................                       70
   Changes in Magistrate Positions.....................                   70
Committee to Implement the Criminal
  Justice Act................                      .................... SO0
  Appointments and Payments........................s80
  Budget Requests-Federal Public Defenders .............
  Grant Requests-Com muity Defender                                       80
     Organizations.................................382
  Guidelines.....................................
  Amendments to the Criminal Justice Act ...............                 84
                                                                         84
  Ratification of Expenses Incurred Prior
     to Authorization...............................                     85
  Legal Malpractice...............................
Committee on the Administration of the                                   86
  Criminal Law...................................                       86
  Bail Reform....................................                       86
  Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1983 ..............                87
  Witness Security.................................
                                                                        88
  National Violent Crime Program.....................                   88
Committee on the Operation of the
   Jury System ...................................          88
   Juror Qualification Questionnaire ....................   88
Implementation Committee on Admission of
   Attorneys to Federal Practice .......................    89
Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct
   and Disability Orders .............................      90
Ad Hoc Committee on the Law Clerk
   Selection Process ................................       90
Elections .......................................           91
Pretermission, of Terms of the Courts of
   Appeals ......................................           91
Release of Conference Action .........................      91
                 REPORT OF THE -PROCEEDINGS
                 OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
                     OF THE UNITED STATES

                     September 21-22, 1983


       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened
on September 21, 1983, pursuant to the call of the Chief
Justice of the United States, issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and
continued in session on September 22nd. The Chief Justice
presided and the following members of the Conference were
present:
First Circuit-
     Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
     Judge W. Arthur Garrity, Jr., District of Massachusetts
Second Circuit:

     Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
     Chief Judge Jack B. Weinstein, Eastern District of
         New York

Third Circuit:
     Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz
     Judge Gerald J. Weber, Western District of Pennsylvania
Fourth Circuit:

     Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
     Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., Eastern District of Virginia
Fifth Circuit:
     Chief Judge Charles Clark
     Judge Adrian G. Duplantier, Eastern District of Louisiana
Sixth Circuit:

     Chief Judge George C. Edwards, Jr.
     Chief Judge Frank J. Battisti, Northern District of Ohio
Seventh Circuit:

      Chief Judge Walter J. Cummings
      Chief Judge John W. Reynolds, Eastern District of
          Wisconsin
Eighth Circuit:

      Chief judge Donald P. Lay
      Judge Albert G. Schatz, District of Nebraska
Ninth Circuit:

      Chief Judge James R. Browning
      Chief Judge Manuel L. Real, Central District of
          California

Tenth Circuit:
     Chief Judge Oliver Seth
     Chief Judge Luther B. Eubanks, Western District of
         Oklahoma
Eleventh Circuit:
     Chief Judge John C. Godbold
     Judge William C. O'Kelley, Northern District of
         Georgia
District of Columbia Circuit:
     Judge J. Skelly Wright*
     Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District of
         Columbia
Federal Circuit:
     Chief Judge Howard T. Markey




 *Designated  by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge
Spottswood W. Robinson III who was unable to attend.


                                42
       Circuit Judges Irving R. Kaufman, Otto R. Skopil, Jr.,
Edward A. Tamm, and Gerald B. Tjoflat; Senior Circuit Judges
John D. Butzner, Jr. and Carl McGowan; Senior District Judges
Edward T. Gignoux, George L. Hart, Jr., Elmo B. Hunter, and
Thomas J. MacBride; and District Judges Robert E. DeMascia,
June L. Green, and James R. Miller, Jr., attended all or some
of the sessions of the Conference.
       The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable
William French Smith, Jr., and the Solicitor General of the
United States, Honorable Rex E. Lee, addressed the
Conference briefly on matters of mutual interest to the
Department of Justice and the Conference.
       Alan A. Parker, Counsel to the House Judiciary
Committee, presented a message from the Chairman, Peter W.
Rodino, Jr.
       William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
Director; James E. Macklin, Executive Assistant Director;
William J. Weller, Legislative Affairs Officer; Daniel R.
Cavan, Deputy Legislative Affairs Officer; Deborah H. Kirk,
Chief, Office of Management Review; Professor A. Leo Levin,
Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Charles W. Nihan,
Deputy Director, and Gordon Bermant, Director of the Division
of Innovations and Systems, attended the sessions of the
Conference. Mark W. Cannon, Administrative Assistant to the
Chief Justice, also attended the sessions of the Conference.

       The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo
Levin, presented his annual report on the activities of the
Center.


               REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR
             OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
             OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS

       The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, William E. Foley, submitted to the Conference
the Annual Report of the Director for the year ended June 30,
1983. The Conference authorized the Director to release the
Annual Report immediately in preliminary form and to revise
and supplement the final printed edition.


                             43
         A separate report on the operation of the Equal
  Employment Opportunity Plans in the circuit and
                                                        district
  courts, was also received by the Conference and authorized
                                                              to
  be released.

             JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

         Mr. Foley reported that during its first nine months of
  operation the newly established Court of Appeals
  Federal Circuit docketed 694 new appeals. There were   for the
  appeals disposed of during the period and 528 appeals 429
                                                            were
 pending on June 30, 1983. In the other 12 courts of
                                                         appeals
 there were 29,630 appeals docketed during the twelve-month
 period ending June 30, 1983, an increase of 6 percent over
 previous year. There were 28,660 appeals terminated          the
                                                           during
 the year, a 2.4 percent increase, and the pending caseload
                                                             rose
 to 22,480 on June 30th, an increase of 4.5 percent.

       In the United States district courts 241,842 civil actions
were commenced during the year, a 17.3 percent increase
                                                             over
the previous year. There were 215,356 civil actions
during the year, a 13.7 percent increase, and on June 30,  closed
there were 231,920 civil actions pending, an increase of 1983
                                                             12.9
percent.    The increased civil filings during 1983 resulted
primarily from a 37.6 percent increase in civil cases
commenced by the Government to recover defaulted student
loans and overpayment of veterans' benefits, and a
percent increase in suits against the Government involving   58.6
claims for social security benefits.

       Criminal cases filed in the district courts during 1983
were 35,872, a 9.8 percent increase over the previous
There were 33,985 criminal cases closed and pending       year.
                                                       criminal
cases rose to 18,546, the highest level since 1976.
       During the year ended June 30, 1983 there were 375,024
bankruptcy cases, representing 535,597 separate estates, filed
in the United States bankruptcy courts, an increase
                                                       of 1.5
percent in estate filings as compared with the previous
There were 449,029 bankruptcy estates closed during the year.
and the number of estates pending on the dockets of year
                                                           the
bankruptcy courts on June 30, 1983 increased to a record
812,190.
      From January 1 to June 30, 1983, there were 3,903
matters transferred from the bankruptcy courts to the district


                             44



                                                                    -v
 courts under the Model Interim Bankruptcy Rule. The district
 courts disposed of 2,402 matters during this period of which
 1,901 were disposed of finally without remand to the
 bankruptcy courts. There were 205 matters referred back to
 bankruptcy judges for final disposition and 296 matters were
 referred back for additional, but not final, action.

                   JUDICIAL PANEL ON
                 MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION
        A written statement filed with the Conference by the
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation indicated that during
the year ended June 30, 1983, the Panel had acted on 1,060
civil actions pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407. Of that number, 496
actions were centralized for consolidated pretrial proceedings
with 564 actions already pending in the various transferee
districts at the time of transfer. The Panel denied transfer of
123 actions.
       Since its creation in 1968 the Panel has transferred
12,154 civil actions for centralized pretrial proceedings in
carrying out its responsibilities.      As of June 30, 1983,
approximately 9,420 cases had been remanded for trial,
reassigned within the transferee district, or terminated in the
transferee court.      On June 30, 1982 there were 2,731
transferred civil actions being processed by transferee judges.


          COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
       Judge Irving R. Kaufman, Chairman of the Committee
on the Judicial Branch, submitted the Committee's report.

      SOCIAL SECURITY AMENDMENTS ACT OF 1983
         The Social Security Amendments Act of 1983, Sec.
 101(c), brings senior judges who continue to accept assignments
under 28 U.S.C. 294 into the Social Security system effective
January 1, 1984. Senior judges who continue to perform
judicial work under assignment will thus be required to pay the
Social Security tax, be ineligible to receive Social Security
benefits until age 70, and be potentially liable for state and
local income taxes in those states which currently consider
senior judge compensation "retirement income? exempt from
state income taxes. Senior judges who continue to work after
January 1, 1984, will, in effect, be paying for the privilege of


                             45
Performing judicial duties which
undertake. The new legislati6n they are not required to
                                      thus creates a substantial
financial disincentive   for seniorjde
activities,.rjde                                  ocniu       hi
                                                 ocniu        hi
        Judge Kaufman informed the
meeting the Committee had              Conference that at its last
                              considered
adopted the following resolution             this problem and had
approved by the Executive Committee     which    was subsequently
                                         of the Conference.
      Federal judges who have
                                 qualified by length of
      service and age can elect to
      "Senior Judge.? By statute, assume the status of
     required to render any judicialsenior judges are not
     receive no additional compensation service at all and
     Yet, over 200 senior judges            when they do.
     are at work regularly at all  have   volunteered   and
                                   levels of the federal
     court system. They provide
    approximately 66 full-time federal the equivalent of
    their services would be a crippling judges. To lose
    new judgeships would have             blow. Scores of
                                     to be created to
    replace them.
     Certain provisions of
                                  the
     Amendments Act of 1983 impose Social Security
    most, if not all, senior               a real risk that
                                 judges will end their
    voluntary service on January
    date senior judges will have       1, 1984. On that
    taken from their retirement    Social   Security taxes
    working in the courts. If they      pay   if they are
   and 70 and have earned Social    are   between   ages 65
   from contributions made before       Security  benefits
   as judges, they will lose those their appointment
   working in the courts. If they benefits if they are
   no taxes and no loss of benefits choose not to work,
                                      will occur.
   This disincentive to productive
   unreasonable and wrong. We and useful work is
   an altogether unforeseen and are aware that it is
   the 1983 statute.             unintended aspect of
                          We urgently request that
  appropriate legislation, removing
  from the impact of the                senior judges
  Amendments Act of 1983             Social    Security
  possible and well before     be  passed   as soon as
                              the deadline date of
  January 1, 1984.



                            46
     Legislation has been introduced to repeal the
     problem provision (Sec. 101 (c)). If Congress finds
     that solution satisfactory we fully endorse it.
     Legislation has also been suggested postponing
     implementation of this provision of the Act until
     its consequences can be ascertained precisely. If
     Congress should choose that approach, we endorse
     it.

           QUADRENNIAL SALARY COMMISSION

       The Act creating the quadrennial "Commission on
Executive, Legislative, and Judicial Salaries," 2 U.S.C. 351,
requires the appointment of a new Commission in 1984. Judge
Kaufman informed the Conference that the Administrative
Office would commence work this Fall on the preparation of a
statement and information concerning judicial salaries to be
presented to the new Commission when it is appointed. The
Committee will consider these materials at its next meeting
and prepare plans for presentations to be made to the
Commission.

         COMMITEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

      Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration, presented the report of the Committee.
             ELECTRONIC SOUND RECORDING

        Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the Federal
Judicial Center, pursuant to Sec. 401 of the Federal Courts'
Improvement Act of 1982, had conducted an experiment to
determine whether electronic sound recordings would be a
viable alternative to shorthand, stenotype, or other methods of
recording proceedings in a district court. The experiment was
conducted to assist the Conference in considering whether to
promulgate regulations authorizing the use of electronic sound
recording equipment as a means of recording proceedings in
the district courts.       The report concluded that, under
appropriate management and supervision, electronic sound
recording can provide an accurate record of proceedings in a
district court at less cost to the Government, without delay or
interruption, and can provide the basis for accurate and timely
transcript delivery.     After full discussion the Conference
adopted the following recommendation of the Committee:

                             47
            Considering the results of the
                                                  study, your
            Committee recommends        that the Judicial
            conference adopt the following regulations
            28 U.S.C. ยง 753(b) to authorize electronic under
           recording of proceedings by each              sound
                                                court. Your
            Committee     also    recommends     that
           regulations not become effective              these
                                             until  January
           1984, so that the Director of the Administrative1,
           Office will have time to
           equipment and issue procedural procure     required
                                            guidelines. The
           proposed regulations follow:
           1. Effective January 1, 1984, pursuant
                U.S.C. 753(b), individual United States to 28
                                                         district
               court judges may direct the use of shorthand,
               mechanical means, electronic sound
               or any other suitable method, as the recording,
                                                       means of
               producing a verbatim record of proceedings
               required by law or by rule or order
               court. The judge should consider the       of the
              the                                     nature   of
                      proceedings,     the    availability
              transcription services, and any other            of
              that may be relevant in determining        factors
              method to be used in producing a               the
             record that will best serve the court    verbatim
                                                        and the
             litigants.
       2.     Electronic sound recording equipment,
             purposes of this regulation, shall           for
                                                 be  multi-
             channel audio equipment. This regulation
             be augmented by guidelines issued         shall
             Director of the Administrative         by   the
             containing technical standards for     Office,
                                                equipment
             and procedures for implementation.
      3.  In the event the need for shorthand,
          or other reporter services should stenotype,
                                              diminish by
          reason of the utilization of electronic
          recording equipment, any reductionsound
          personnel,                                    in
                        where     feasible,    shall   be
          accomplished through attrition.
       The Conference further authorized
appoint an ad hoc committee of members the Chief Justice to
monitor, on behalf of the Conference of the Conference to
thereof, the implementation by the          between meetings
                                      Administrative Office of


                                 48
 the regulations adopted on September 21, 1983 with respect to
 electronic sound recordings of court proceedings.

            COURT REPORTERS' ANNUAL LEAVE

        At its session in March, 1982 (Conf. Rept., p. 12), the
Conference adopted a policy relating to sick leave for court
reporters and requested the Committee to study the question
of ranting annual leave to court reporters. Judge Hunter
stated that while the Conference has never adopted a policy
granting annual leave to court reporters, some courts have
been granting administrative leave to reporters on an
individual basis who have been assigned to a "regular tour of
duty" encompassing a formal 40-hour work week in the
courthouse with a prohibition against engaging in private
reporting activities during those hours. The General Counsel
of the Administrative Office has concluded that court
reporters who are assigned a "regular tour of duty," of
whatever length, must come under the Leave Act, 5 U.S.C. S
6301 et. seq. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference adopted the following guideline:

     Beginning with the 1984 leave year (effective
     January 8, 1984) a reporter who has been placed on
     a regular tour of duty consisting of a set number
     of work hours per week in the courthouse,
     specified in advance, during which hours the
     reporter may generate transcripts but may not
     perform any private (free-lance) work of any kind,
     the reporter is to earn annual leave in accordance
     with the Leave Act, 5 U.S.C. 56301 et. seq.
       The Committee also advised that a court must state in
its court reporter management plan whether reporters are
assigned a regular tour of duty, and specify the regular hours
of attendance. Leave records should be maintained by the
clerk of the court.
       ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE FOR LAW CLERKS
                 AND SECRETARIES
       The Committee has concluded, on advice of the General
Counsel of the Administrative Office, that all employees of
the Judiciary, except judges, are entitled to both annual and
sick leave benefits under the provisions of Chapter 63 of Title
5, United States Code. For many years, however, judges have


                             49
                                                                         A
   been given the opportunity to elect whether
   their personal staffs should be given leave or not members of
   conducted by the Federal Judicial            benefits. A survey
                                          Secretaries
   indicated that a majority of secretaries              Association
   placed under the Leave Act and not excluded would prefer to be
  an amendment to existing law. The               from benefits by
                                           Committee
  that secretaries to judges should be entitled          recognized
  the Leave Act, but did not wish to require     to the  benefits of
  those already employed.                     changes   in regard to
                                  Accordingly, the Committee
  presented the following recommendation
                                             which was approved
  by the Conference:
        It is therefore recommended that
                                                 the Judicial
        Conference require all new secretaries
        and district judges to be placed under of circuit
        Act, but allow judges' secretaries who the Leave
        under the Leave Act to continue as        are not now
                                             in the past.
         Judge Hunter advised the Conference
  the temporary nature of the appointment            that because of
 their work habits, the Committee              of  law   clerks and of
                                           has
 evaluation any action regarding application      held    for further
 to law clerks and will study the question        of  the   Leave Act
 further advised that the Committee         further.    Judge  Hunter
 matter of the Leave Act's application    did   not   reconsider   the
 magistrates or bankruptcy judges                to United States
                                          in
 Conference action endorsing legislation view of previous
 officers from coverage under the Leave          to exempt these
                                           Act.
                    COURTROOM FACILITIES
       The Chief Judge of the United States
the Northern District of Alabama, after      District Court for
of the Judicial Council of the Eleventh obtaining  the approval
the Committee to consider and recommend Circuit, had  requested
Conference a variance from the                 to  the  Judicial
                                      Conference's guidelines
regarding sizes of courtrooms.
       Upon    the recommendation of the Committee
Conference    voted to deny the requested variance     the
courtrooms                                         for
              to be constructed in the new courthouse  the
Birmingham,   Alabama.                                  at




                               50
                 FEES OF COURT REPORTERS
        Judge Hunter reported that the court reporters in the
 Ninth and Tenth Circuits charge parties $2.50 per page for a
 transcript of a case on appeal, which is $.50 per page more
than the maximum fee approved by the Conference. The
reporters and other court officials justify this additional fee
because of the requirements of these two circuits that two
copies of a transcript be filed on appeal, one of which is
retained in the district court and the other forwarded to the
court of appeals. The Committee is of the view that parties
who order transcripts for cases on appeal to the Ninth and
Tenth Circuits should not be made to pay higher rates than are
recuired in the other circuits. Accordingly, the Committee
presented the following resolution which was approved by the
Conference:
      That the Judicial Conference reaffirm its
      September 1963, decision that no court reporter is
     authorized to receive payment of a fee for
     providing a transcript for the clerk's office in the
     preparation or perfection of an appeal. It is also
     recommended that the Conference approve the
     policy that a reporter may charge a party only for
     transcript ordered by and delivered to the party
     and that the reporter must bear the expense of
     providing a copy of a transcript to be filed with
     the clerk of the district court and a copy to be
     submitted to the court of appeals, if required. It
     is further suggested that the Ninth and Tenth
     Circuit Courts of Appeals should review their
     requirements that a copy of the transcript be
     retained in the district court since it duplicates
     the copy of the transcript that is submitted to the
     court of appeals.

               COURT REPORTER POSITIONS
        At its session in March, 1982 (Conf. Rept., p. 9) the
Conference adopted a policy that "permanent swing reporters
may only be authorized when a court in fact has implemented a
system in which each reporter is fully utilized.           Swing
reporters will be granted only on a showing of demonstrated
need and the full use of existing personnel ...". In response to
the April, 1983 budget call by the Administrative Office, 32
district courts requested 55 additional court reporters, of


                             51
 which 44 are swing reporters already employed and 11 are new
 positions. The judicial councils of the circuits have approved
 these requests.
       The Committee reviewed the justifications submitted
and determined that not all courts have adopted court reporter
management plans. Those that have adopted plans have done
so too recently to provide experience. Only six courts provide
for a pooling of reporters and most have each reporter assigned
to a specific judge. Very few reporters appear to be working
to capacity.
        The Committee accordingly recommended that none of
the requests for additional reporters be approved. The use of
contractors - or, in the case of land commissioners, the use of
electronic sound recording equipment - combined with better
utilization of authorized reporters should be sufficient to meet
the courts? needs. The Committee further recommended that
Conference approval of the requested additional reporter
positions be continued to September, 1984, but that requests
for the continuation of, or for additional positions, should be
submitted to the Subcommittee on Supporting Personnel by
June, 1984. In the interim, swing court reporter positions that
become vacant should be abolished, unless the Director of the
Administrative Office determines the position is necessary and
approves a temporary appointment pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
753(a).    These recommendations were approved by the
Conference.

                        AUTOMATION
        The Conf erence of Chief Circuit Judges had
recommended the appointment of a standing committee of the
Conference to review what is being done in the Judiciary on
automation and particularly in the Administrative Office and
the Federal Judicial Center. Subsequently, the Chief Justice
established an ad hoc subcommittee of the Committee on
Court Administration to study the advisability and feasibility
of establishing a standing committee and to report to the
Committee on Court Administration.

       Judge Hunter stated that the Committee had concluded
that the choice of appropriate technology should be left to
experts, but that it was the consensus of the Committee that
there should be input from judges with regard to the
automation needs and priorities of the courts. The Committee


                             52
 felt that an additional level of scrutiny provided by judicial
 input will produce a greater level of understanding in the
 courts as well as in the Congress.
         While agreeing that the appointment of a Committee to
 oversee automation development in the Judiciary was
 desirable, the Committee reported that it is opposed to the
 proliferation of Judicial Conference Committees.            The
 Committee therefore recommended that the function of
 oversight of technology or automation be assigned, on an
 experimental     basis,   to   the    Court    Administration's
 Subcommittee on Judicial Improvements; that the Chief
 Justice be authorized to appoint, as he may determine,
 additional members to the Subcommittee; and further that the
 Subcommittee recommend to the Court Administration
 Committee within two years whether there is a need to
continue the special oversight function. The Committee was
further of the view that the Subcommittee should review the
 five-year plan for automation in the United States courts
developed by the Administrative Office and the Federal
Judicial Center, monitor its implementation, approve budget
estimates for automation in the courts prior to submission to
the Budget Committee of the Judicial Conference, determine
the timing and priorities for installation of equipment to
support operational systems, consider suggestions received
from the courts, and approve             guidelines.     These
recommendations were approved by the Conference.
        RETIREMENT COVERAGE FOR LAW CLERKS

        Judge Hunter informed 'the Conference that the
 participation of law clerks and legal assistants in the Civil
Service Retirement program has proved costly and
administratively difficult. Approximately 2,400 law clerks and
 legal assistants are employed in the Federal Judiciary
(excluding the Supreme Court) of which about 1,800 turn over
each year. These employees are given permanent, excepted
appointments, and are entitled to the full range of employee
benefits.     Considerable effort is annually expended in
establishing and maintaining retirement records and in
processing approximately 1,800 applications for refunds of
retirement contributions.       The Office of Personnel
Management and the Administrative Office jointly spend in
excess of three man years of effort in this area at a cost of
over $60,000 per year.           The Committee therefore
recommended that the Administrative Office be authorized to


                             53
                                          from the Civil Service
exclude law clerks and legal assistants
                                        solely under the Social
Retirement System and leave them of "career law clerks",
Security systemg with the exception
                                     prospectively, and with the
provided that the change be made             affect health or life
understanding that it will not adversely was approved by the
insurance benefits. This recommendation
                                      that a law clerk would be
 Conference with the understanding             in the Civil Service
 given the option of electing to participate
                                         participating in Social
 retirement system in addition to
 Security.

          COURT QUARTERS AND ACCOMMODATIONS
                                              House Committee on
         Judge Hunter stated that the
                                         Supplemental Appropriation
 Appropriations in its report on the            98-207, called for a
 Bill for the fiscal year 1983, H.Rept. of all requests for
 review by circuit judicial councils space that will cost
                                        court
 alterations to new or existing in the scope or modification
 $500,000 or more , and any    changes
                                       the cost of construction by
 of a project that will incredse original estimate. The report
 $100,000 or 5 percent over the
                                       enter into an agreement with
 further requested the judiciary to           establishing procedures
  the General Services Administration    requests.
  for reviewing and processing these
                                                              that the
           Judge Hunter informed the Conference
                                                office of the General
  Director of the Budget in the central  Administrative Office have
  Services Administration and the proposed memorandum of
   agreed upon the following
   understanding-
                                                    entered into,.
         This Memorandum of Understanding is               Office
         between the Director of the Administrative  on behalf of
         of the United States Courts     (AOUSC),
                                                      States, and
         the Judicial Conference of the United (GSA) in
         the Administrator of General        Services
                                                   overruns and
         order to avoid unnecessary cost for the United
          project delays in providing facilities
         States courts.        It establishes policies and
                                                  courts (except
          procedures to be followed by therequests for any
          the Supreme Court) in processing            and funded
          proposed change in an approved in an increase
          prospectus project which will    result
                                                cost by $100,000
           in the design and/or construction           procedures
                                               These
           or 5% of the original estimate.
           are as follows:

                                   54
     1.   Any change, regardless of cost, initiated
          within a Judicial Circuit shall be submitted to
          the AOUSC.       Where necessary, the AOUSC
          will seek assistance from the appropriate GSA
          Regional Office to determine the cost impact,
          including costs associated with the potential
          design/construction delay, and the cost impact
          on other portions of the project which may not
          be court related.
     2.   When a proposed change exceeds the cost
          thresholds, the AOUSC will refer the change
          to the Circuit Council for its review and
          approval/disapproval.

     3.   If approved, the AOUSC will forward
          certification of approval to the appropriate
          GSA Regional Administrator.

     Under no circumstances will GSA or a GSA
     contractor effect any change to a court project
     unless the above procedures are followed.        If
     changes are instituted that are not in compliance
     with the above, the Judiciary will not be liable or
     responsible for any costs involved.
     This agreement is effective upon signing and will
     remain in full force until cancelled or superseded.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved the memorandum of understanding with
the addition of an Item 4 to the list of procedures as follows:   K
     4.   GSA will then accomplish the certified
          changes, as approved, in accordance with 28
          U.S.C. 462(f).
                PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

       H.R. 1579, 98th Congress, would transfer two counties
from the Eastern to the Western Division of the Northern
District of Illinois. H.R. 3604, 98th Congress, would designate
Houma, Louisiana as an additional statutory place of holding
court in the Eastern District of Louisiana. Judge Hunter
advised the Conference that the district courts and judicial


                                55
                                                                           T




                                                                           hW



councils concerned had apprbved the proposals contained in
these bills. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved the bills and authorized the Director of
the Administrative Office to notify the Congress.
                       FRIVOLOUS LITIGATION

        Judge Hunter stated that the Subcommittee on Judicial
Improvements, at the request of Judge Alfred T. Goodwin, had
explored ways and means to reduce frivolous or meritless
litigation in the courts and had canvassed the various courts
f or ideas and suggestions.         After consideration of the
suggestions   received,   the   Subcommittee     concluded, as did
many judges,   that the  existing tools  are sufficient,  but perhaps
not fully  understood  or utilized. The    Committee    has therefore
asked the Federal Judicial      Center   to  provide   instruction  to
judges so that they   will  know  what   the  tools are  and  when  to
use them and how. The Committee         also noted  that  the Judicial
Center Committee on Prisoner Civil Rights Litigation had
suggested the enactment of legislation to require the
exhaustion of state remedies in cases brought under 42 U.S.C.
 1983 in situations where the plaintiff has an available state
remedy. Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
 Conference approved the concept of the exhaustion of state
 administrative remedies in Section 1983 cases and authorized
 the Committee to develop and submit appropriate legislation
 for further consideration by the Conference.
                       HABEAS CORPUS REFORM

       At its session in March, 1983 (Conf. Rept., p. 7), the
Conference authorized the Committee to conduct a further
study of the several bills introduced in the 97th Congress to
reform habeas corpus procedures. Judge Hunter reported that
similar legislation is contained in S. 217, Title VI of S. 829,
S. 1763 and H.R. 50, 98th Congress. After full discussion the
Conference decided to take no action on the proposals
contained in these bills, except to express its disapproval of a
provision contained in H.R. 50 which would prohibit a United
                                             evidentiary   hearings   in
 States   magistrate     from   conducting

 habeas corpus proceedings.




                                       56
             CERTIFICATION OF QUESTIONS OF
                       STATE LAW
                                                       State Laws
        In 1967, the Commissioners ofl Uniform of Law Act,
                                        of Questions
promulgated a Uniform Certification           of last resort with
12 U.L.A. 49, to provide       State  courts
                                           state law certified to
jurisdiction to determine questions of              one-half of the
them by United States courts. Approximately  in their constitution,
States now have such provisions, either          provide that only
statutes, or rules of court.      Some  States
                                                 questions of State
United States courts of appeals may certify   to certify questions,
law, others permit any Article III court
                                               must dispose of the
some require that the question certified
 case, and still others provide  that the certified question must
 dispose only of a particular issue.
                                                             adopted
         In February, 1983 the American Bar Association whereby
                                              a procedure
a resolution urging "each State to adopt a question of State
the highest court of the State may answer    of the United States,
law certified from an Article III court in an action in the
when the answer will be controlling
                                        opinion of the certifying
certifying court and cannot in the            in light of State
court be satisfactorily determined
                                        Judicial Center concluded
authorities." A study by the Federal        of unsettled State law
 that although cases involving questions          than more typical
 require more time from filing to disposition of that time is
 cases, only a relatively small proportion             procedure, and
 directly attributable to use of the certification  experience.    The
                                         greater
 that this delay should decrease with        attending   certification
  Center report also noted that the delay        expedition of other
  is more than compensated     by  subsequent
                                                   of State law.
  cases involving the same or related questions
                                                            that the
          The Committee therefore recommended                        in
                                                  Bar   Association
  Judicial Conference support the American for certification of
  its efforts to provide a uniform procedure court by any Article
  questions of State law to a State's highest        to a question of
   III Federal court when a definitive answer the court and
                                             before
   State law will dispose of an issue              of the litigation,
   materially contribute    to the   resolution
                                           the right to decline to
   retaining on the part of the State
   answer any certified question.       This recommendation was
   approved by the Conference.




                                   57
                                                                                    7




                      RACE TO THE COURTHOUSE
         The Administrative Conference of the United States had
 recommended that 28 U.S.C. 2112(a) be amended to provide
 that if petitions to review the same order of an administrative
 agency have been filed in two or more courts of appeals within
 ten days after the order was issued, the agency is to notify an
 appropriate official body, such as the Administrative Office of
 the United States Courts, of that fact; that the official body,
 on the eleventh day after the issuance of the order, is to
choose from among the circuits in which the petitions have
been filed, according to a scheme of random selection, and
notify the agency of that choice; and that the agency is then to
file the record of the proceeding in the court so chosen. That
particular court of appeals would take jurisdiction and conduct
review proceedings, subject to its existing power to transfer
the case to any other court of appeals for the convenience of
the parties in the interest of justice.

       The American Bar Association has endorsed the concept
of random selection, but has suggested that the selection be
made on the basis of appeals filed through the fifth business
day after the day an agency action becomes reviewable. This
proposal was embodied in legislative proposals previously
considered by the Conference (Conf. Rept., Mar. 1980, p. 11;
Conf. Rept., Sept. 1982, p. 69).
       The Committee pointed out that the Administrative
Office does not have, nor should it be vested with judicial
powers.   On    the   other   hand,   the   Judicial   Panel   on   Multidistrict

Litigation has exercised a similar power for many years with
respect to the consolidation of cases for pretrial discovery.
The Committee therefore recommended that the Judicial
Conference continue to endorse a scheme of random selection
of a court of appeals to review simultaneously filed petitions
to review agency orders, but with the additional proviso that
the selection of a court of appeals to hear the, appeal be vested
in the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation.           This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.

               LIMITATION ON THE JURISDICTION OF
               FEDERAL COURTS OVER STATE CASES

        H.R. 46, 98th Congress, would add a new Section 1621
to Title 28, United States Code, providing as follows: "No court
of the United States that is established by Act of Congress


                                      58
under Article III of the Constitution of the United States shall
have any jurisdiction to modify, directly or indirectly, any
order of a court of a state if such order is, will be, or was,
subject to review by the highest court of such state." The
Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee has requested
Conference views on this bill.
        The Committee reported that the purposes and intent of
the bill are not clear and that it is drawn in such broad terms
that its potential effect and consequences cannot be
ascertained.    As written, the bill would severely restrict
jurisdiction in an area in which Federal courts have been
thought to have special competence in the protection of
Constitutional and Federal statutory rights. Furthermore, the
Committee believed that the bill is unnecessary in view of the
abstention doctrine enunciated by the Supreme Court in
Youger v.Harris, and other cases. Upon the recommendation
BT          ~ommiittee, the Conference strongly opposed the
enactment of the bill.
                FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT

       H.R. 490, H.R. 595, H.R. 3142 and Title XIII of S. 829,
98th Congress, are bills to amend the Federal Tort Claims Act
to provide for an exclusive remedy against the United States in
suits based upon acts or omissions of United States employees,
and to provide an exclusive remedy against the United States
with respect to constitutional and other torts. Some of the
bills would require a jury trial with respect to alleged
constitutional torts.
       The Committee was advised that H.R. 3142 has been
introduced as a successor bill to H.R. 490 and H.R. 595. The
Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference advise
the Congress that the enactment of these measures is a matter
of policy for the consideration of the Congress, but, if enacted,
the bill would probably increase the workload of the district
courts and the judicial system generally.
             DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT

       H.R. 415, 98th Congress, would amend the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 to permit persons
to bring suits under the Act in Federal district courts without
regard to whether any proceedings have been commenced by or
on behalf of such persons under State law. S. 686, 98th

                              59
                                                                        I




 Congress, would also amend;dhe Act to eliminate the upper age
 limitation of 70 years of age, to make procedural reforms, and
 to reinstate the tenured faculty exception. The Senate bill
 would eliminate jury trials in age discrimination cases.

        It was the view of the Committee that the elimination
 of the 70 year age limitation and the reinstatement of the
 tenured faculty exception in the Act, are matters of policy for
 the Congress and the Conference agreed. The Committee
 noted, however, that if enacted, these bills would increase the
 workload of the district courts.
          APPEALS FROM THE INTERNATIONAL
        TRADE COMMISSION AND CERTIFICATIONS
            FROM DISTRICT COURTS TO THE
      COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FEDERAL CIRCUIT
        H.R. 1291, 98th Congress, would provide a period of 60
days in which to appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit from a determination of the United States
International Trade Commission. The bill would rectify an
oversight in the statute. A similar oversight, however, has
occurred with respect to the certification of interlocutory
appeals from the district courts. The statute, 28 U.S.C.
1292(d)(1) and (2), provides procedures for the Court of
International Trade and the Court of Claims to make these
certifications, but no parallel procedure was provided for
appeals of interlocutory orders from the district courts to the
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.

         It was the view of the Committee that the time to be
 allowed for an appeal from a decision of the United States
International Trade Commission and for the certification of
interlocuitory orders from the district courts to the Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit are matters of policy for the
Congress, but that the oversights in the statute should be
corrected. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved H.R. 1291 and recommended corrective
legislation regarding interlocutory appeals from the district
courts.

         PEREMPTORY CHALLENGES OF JUDGES

       H.R. 3125, 98th Congress, would provide for the
reassignment of certain cases from one judge to another upon
the request of a party. The, bill would require that "if all


                            60



                                                                   IF
                                  criminal case to be tried in a
parties on one side of a civil or       court file an application
Federal district court ois bankruptcy
                                         case, thIaesalb
requesting the reassignment of thejudicial
                        appropriate              officer for trial."
reassigned to another                    20  days  after the initial
The application must be filed within            the  date of service
                                   20 days of
 assignment of the case or within        joined party filing the
-of process on the most currently             may be filed by the
 application. only one such applicationit was the view of the
 parties on one side of the litigation.          undesirable judge-
 Committee that this bill would introduce  impossible to maintain
 shopping and would make it virtuallyrecommendation of the
 individual calendars.     Upon the
                                        opposed enactment of the
  Committee the Conference strongly
  bill.
                    ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS
                                                          that the
          Judge Hunter informed the Conference
                                        had developed schedule
                                                        a
 Subcommittee on Judicial Statistics
                                    Survey of judgeship needs. In
 for conducting the 1984 Biennial      to consider, in more detail
 this regard the Subcommittee plans mag istrates in evaluating
 than in past surveys, the use of           The Subcommittee also
 judgeship needs in the district courts.
                                      recommending decreases as
 plans to explore the possibility of authorized judgeships. The
  well as increases in the number of
                                      1984 to formulate its final
  Subcommittee will meet in May,  Copies of the Subcommittee's
  judgeship recommendations.               to the courts concerned
  report and analysis will be submitted
                                      to  filing a complete report
  and to the judicial councils prior
   with the Committee on Court Administration.
                                             defer consideration of
           The Committee has decided to
                               judgeship for the District of Utah
   the need for an additional 1984
   until the completion of the      survey.


                   COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
                                         of the Committee on
         Judge Charles Clark, Chairman report.
   the Budget, submitted the Committee's
                                              FOR THE
          SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS 1984
                        FISCAL YEAR
                                                   of the
       The Conference, upon the recommendation
                                      of the Administrative
   Committee, authorized the Director

                                   61
                                                                    T




  Office to submit to the Congress requests for Supplemental
 appropriations for the fiscal year 1984 in the amount of
  $21,308,000. The request will include funds for an anticipated
 4 percent pay increase in salaries to become effective in
 January, 1984; funds to provide for a contribution to the Social
 Security system as mandated by Public Law 98-21; additional
 funds in the amount of $4,500,000 for "Defender Services" due
 to the increased Criminal Justice Act caseload and related
 costs; and an additional $4,580,000 for the bankruptcy courts
 to cover additional postage and printing costs and to replace
 the United States Trustee program for six months in 1984 in
 the event that program is terminated.

       APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1985

        The Conference approved the budget estimates for the
 fiscal year 1985, prepared by the Director of the
 Administrative Office and submitted by the Committee. The
 estimates, exclusive of the Supreme Court, the United States
 Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the Court of
International Trade, and the Federal Judicial Center total
 $986,706,000, an increase of $106,984,000 over the amount
 recommended by the Appropriations Committees of the
 Congress for the fiscal year 1984, adjusted to reflect proposed
supplemental appropriations requests.        Approximately 50
percent of the increases in the budget requests are for
mandatory or uncontrollable costs such as within-grade salary
advancements, promotions, increases in contract rates, and
charges for equipment, services, and supplies and the continued
demand for large increases in the charges for space rental by
the General Services Administration. Provision has been made
in the budget for an additional 1,289 permanent personnel
positions. The Director was authorized to amend the budget
estimates because of new legislation, action taken by the
Judicial Conference, or for any other reason the Director and
the Budget Committee consider necessary and appropriate.
       The Conference also gave approval to including in the
budget funds necessary to cover changes in the magistrates
program that may be recommended by the Magistrates
Committee at its meeting to be held in December, subject to
any adjustments that may be necessary by reason of action of
the Conference at its next session.
       The Conference also approved the conversion of 250
authorized temporary bankruptcy clerical positions to


                             62
permanent positions and the conversion of 160 temporary
bankruptcy clerical positions to temporary-indefinite.
                      BUDGET CALL

       At the request of Judge Clark the Conference also
approved changes in the Judiciary budget call to reflect
current requirements and to provide for the allocation of
personnel and other resources for court operations. Judge
Clark noted that the formulation of budget estimates for
submission to the Congress should be based on caseload
projections nationwide and on staffing formulas approved by
the Judicial Conference.

               JUDICIAL ETHICS COMMITTEE

       Judge Edward A. Tamm, Chairman of the statutory
Judicial Ethics Committee, presented the report of the
Committee.
              ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE

       Judge Tamm informed the Conference that the
Committee had received 1,867 financial disclosure reports for
the calendar year 1982, including 953 reports from "judicial
officers" and 914 reports from "judicial employees". Since
January 1, 1983 the Committee has also received 32 reports
required to be filed by nominees to judgeship positions. All
reports submitted to the Committee are being reviewed by at
least one Committee member to determine whether they were
"filed in a timely manner, are complete, and are in proper
form" as required by 28 U.S.C. App. I 306(a).
       The Conference was informed that five judicial
employees had not yet filed reports for the calendar year
1982. In the absence of filing, the Committee, acting in
accordance with the procedures previously adopted by the
Committee and reported to the Conference in Sept. 1980
(Conf. Rept., p. 76), will consider a reference to the Attorney
General under 28 U.S.C. App. I 3 04(b).
           REPORTING FORM AND INSTRUCTIONS

       The Committee has endeavored to limit future changes
 in the reporting form and instructions in order to facilitate

                              63
comparison of reports with those submitted in prior years, and
to ease the burden on reporting individuals in preparing their
reports. Consequently, the Committee has decided to retain
the current form and instructions for use in making reports for
the calendar year 1983 with only minor modifications. These
include an addition to Parts II and III of the form to permit a
reporting individual to state affirmatively that the
"Differences between investments reported last year and those
reported this year, which are not explained in Part VII
(Transactions) of the report, reflect changes in investments
that the Act exempts from disclosure?; a certification
pertaining to participation in litigation to make it clear that it
applies only to litigation in which the reporting individual
participated as a judicial officer or a judicial employee; and an
amendment to Section VII of the instructions pertaining to
trusts.
       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference, in accordance with Section 303(c) of the Ethics in
Government Act of 1978, approved the revised reporting form
and instructions submitted by the Committee.


     ADVISORY COMMWrrEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

       Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the
Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct, presented the
report of the Committee.

               ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE

       Judge Markey informed the Conference that since its
last report the Committee had received 17 inquiries from
persons subject to the various Codes of Conduct and had issued
13 advisory responses.     The Committee is also publlshing
Advisory Opinion 73 relating to Requests to Judges for Letters
of Recommendation.         Judge Markey also advised the
Conference that the amendment to 28 U.S.C. 455, the
disqualification statute, to enable a judge to consider the
effect of disqualification on the public interest in certain
limited circumstances, as previously approved by the
Conference, had been modified slightly and is expected to be
acted upon by the Congress in the current session.




                              64
        COMMITTEE ONINTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

        The written report of the Committee on Intercircuit
 Assignments, submitted by the Chairman, Judge George L.
 Hart, Jr., was received by the Conference.
        The report indicated that during the period February 15,
 1983 to August 20, 1983 the Committee recommended 81
assignments to be undertaken by 59 judges. Of this number,
one was a retired Supreme Court Justice, 16 were senior
circuit judges, 9 were active circuit judges, 29 were senior
district judges, two were active district judges, one was a
senior judge of the Court of International Trade and one was an
active judge of the Court of International Trade.
        Forty-three judges undertook 59 assignments to the
Courts of Appeals and 19 judges undertook 22 assignments to
district courts.


                 COMMITTEE ON RULES OF
                PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

      Judge Edward T. Gignoux, Chairman of the Committee
on Rules of Practice and Procedure, presented the report of
the Committee.

                   RULES ENABLING ACTS
        On April 21, 1983 the House Judiciary Subcommittee on
 Courts, Civil Liberties and the Administration of Justice, of
 which Congressman Robert W. Kastenmeler is the Chairman,
 conducted hearings on the operation of the Judicial Conference
 rules program. The witnesses included the Chairman of the
 Standing Committee and representatives of the American Bar
 Association and the Public Citizen Litigation Group.
 Subsequent to the hearing, Congressman Kastenmeier
 forwarded to the Chief Justice and to the Chairman of the
Standing Committee a draft bill which would amend the Rules
Enabling Acts to modify the present rulemaking process in
several significant respects. Mr. Kastenmeier made clear that
the purpose of the draft bill was "to solicit formal comments
prior to introduction."
       The draft bill would amend the Rules Enabling Acts to
vest rulemaking authority in the Judicial Conference, rather


                             65
                                                                  P




than in the Supreme Court, increase the time for Congressional
consideration of proposed rules'changes from 90 days (180 days
for Evidence Rules) to nine months, and would specify how
Committee members are to be selected and the procedures to
be followed by the Committees. In response to Congressman
Rastenmeier's inquiry, the Chief Justice advised that "the
members of the Court see no reason to oppose legislation to
eliminate this Court from the rulemaking process."
        After full consideration the Committee advised
Congressman Kastenmeier of its views that the question of
whether the Supreme Court should continue to promulgate
rules amendments is a question of policy for the Supreme
Court and the Congress, but that if a change is to be made, the
authority to promulgate rules and rules amendments should be
vested in the Judicial Conference, either directly or by
delegation from the Supreme Court. The Committee was
further of the view that it is for Congress to determine the
amount of time it needs to review proposed rules changes, but
that a uniform waiting period should be provided for all rules.
The Committee questioned, however, the need or desirability
for a nine-month waiting period, which would further extend
the already lengthy time required to effect rules changes, and
suggested that a 180 day waiting period should be sufficient.
The Committee was further of the view that the inclusion of
provisions in the statute on rules committee membership and
operating procedures would create an undesirable degree of
inflexibility and suggested that these matters be left to the
discretion of the Judicial Conference.
       The Conference thereupon endorsed the views expressed
in the Committee's letter to Congressman Kastenmeler.
                 OPERATING PROCEDURES

       The testimony presented at the oversight hearings
indicated that some members of the bench, bar, and public, in
spite of efforts to inform them, are unfamiliar with the
functioning of the existing rulemaking process. The result has
been to create confusion and occasional criticism.        The
Committee therefore developed a written statement of
Procedures for the Conduct of Business by the Judicial
Conference Committees on Rules of Practice ajnd Procedure,
which incorporates long-standing practices of the rules
committees and most of the suggested procedural
improvements. The statement, however, does not include a


                             66
requirement of open 'committee         meetings which the
Committee deemed to be neither necessary nor desirable.
Judge Gignoux advised the Conference that the procedural
statement will be widely published and will be included in any
future submission of proposed rules amendments to the bench
and bar for comment.

                  LOCAL RULES OF COURT

       Judge Gignoux advised the Conference that the
Committee has decided to initiate a study of local court rules,
wvhich have proliferated in recent years and have been
increasingly criticized.    In the meantime, the Advisory
Committees on Civil and Appellate Rules have already begun
studies of local rules of the district courts and the courts of
appeals.
                  ADVISORY COMMITTEES

       Judge Gignoux also informed the Conference that the
amendments to the Federal Rules of Civil and CriminalF
Procedure and the new Bankruptcy Rules, approved by the
Conference in September, 1982 (Conf. Rept., p. 85), and
transmitted to the Congress by the Chief Justice in April,
1983, became effective on August 1.
       At the last Committee meeting the Advisory
Committees on Appellate, Civil and Criminal Rules presented
to the Committee additional proposed rules amendments. The
Committee decided to withhold the distribution of these
proposed amendments to the bench and bar for comment until
the rules changes then pending became effective.
Subsequently, the proposed amendments to the rules of Civil
and Criminal Procedure were transmitted to the bench and bar
for comment. The publication of the proposed amendments to
the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure for public commentF
has, however, been withheld to determine whether any further
changes will be required when the Congress takes further
action on the jurisdiction of bankruptcy courts.


        COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF
              THE PROBATION SYSTEM

     Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat, Chairman of the Committee on
the Administration of the Probation System, presented theFF
Committee's report.


                              67                                  l
                                                                  IL
                      SENTENCING REFORM

         At its session in March, 1983 (Conf. Rept. p. 28) the
  Conference approved draft legislation, submitted by the
  Committee as an alternative to proposals then pending in the
  Congress, which would create an independent commission on
 sentencing, authorize the appellate review of sentences and
 create comprehensive      statutory sentencing procedures.
 Subsequently the draft bill was introduced in the Senate by
 Senator Dole as S. 1182, 98th Congress, and in the House
                                                             of
 Representatives by Congressman Rodino as H.R. 3128, 98th
 Congress. At Senate hearings conducted last May on S. 829,
 98th Congress, Judge Tjoflat recommended that the provisions
 of S. 1182 be substituted as an alternative to the sentencing
 provisions of S. 829.

          Thereafter the Senate Judiciary Committee favorably
  renorted a new bill, the "Comprehensive Crime Control Act of
  1983"1, S. 1762, 98th Congress, as a substitute for the original
  bill, S. 829. Title 11 of the new bill, relating to sentencing
  reform, incorporates some of the recommendations of the
  Conference, but continues to provide for an independent
  Sentencing Commission within the Judicial Branch, rather than
 a Judicial Conference Committee on Sentencing Guidelines.
 The Commission would be a permanent body with seven voting
  members, at least two of whom would be federal judges in
 regular active service. For the first six years the members
 would serve full-time, but thereafter all members, except the
 Chairman, would serve on a part-time basis. The function of
 developing guidelines for sentencing would remain the same
 in previous versions, but a sentencing judge, and a judge      as
 reviewing a sentence on appeal, would be required to submit to
 the Commission, as to each sentence imposed, "a written
report of the sentence; the offense for which it is imposed; the
age, race, and sex of the offender; information regarding
factors made relevant by the guidelines, and such other
information as the Commission finds appropriate."            The
Commission        would   also    "monitor"     the   sentencing
recommendations that probation officers make to judges and
would be empowered to "request such information, data, and
reports from any . . . judicial officer as the Commission may
from time to time require." The Commission would also
assume the work of training probation officers, conducting
sentencing institutes, collecting and disseminating sentencing
data, and conducting research. Thus the Commission would



                               68
unnecessarily duplicate fun~ctions already performed by the
Judicial Conference, the, Federal Judicial Center, and the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts.

       It was the view of the Committee that an independent
Sentencing Commission charged with extensive supervision and
control over trial and appellate sentencing judges and
probation officers would constitute a substantial intrusion into
a judicial function and would unnecessarily duplicate work
currently performed by the Judicial Conference, the Federal        ,
Judicial Center and the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts. Upon the recommendation of the Committee,
the Conference reaffirmed its support of the alternative
sentencing proposals embodied in S. 1182 and H.R. 3128.

                   SENTENCING INSTITUTES
        The Conference upon the recommendation of the
Committee authorized the convening of a Joint Institute on
Sentencing for the judges of the First, Third, and District of
Columbia Circuits to be held at the Federal Correctional
Institution at Otisville, New York, April 30 to May 2nd, 1984,
subject to approval of an agenda to be presented at the next
session of the Conference.


           COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINITRATION
              OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

       Judge Robert E. DeMascio, Chairman of the Committee
on the Bankru~tcy System, presented the Committee's report.

    SURVEY OF THE NEED FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES
        At its session in September, 1982 (Conf. Rept., p. 88),
the Conference, pursuant to Section 406(d) of the Bankruptcy
Reform Act of 1978, recommended the creation of 304
bankruptcy judges to be appointed under this statute, and the
location of their official stations. Upon the recommendation
of    the     Committee     the    Conference   amended     its
recommendation in the following respects:

     1.   The creation of one full-time bankruptcy judge
          position for the Middle District of Louisiana in
          addition to the 304 positions previously
          recommended.          -



                               69
       2.    The transfer of the regular place of office for
             the bankruptcy judge for the Western District
             of Louisiana from Lafayette to Opelousas.
       3.    The elimination of the requirement that the
             bankruptcy judge for the Eastern District of
             Texas spend half of his time working in the
             Northern District of Texas.
            ARRANGEMENTS FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES
        The Conference upon the recommendation of the
 Committee, with the concurrence of the Judicial Council of
 the Seventh Circuit and the United States District Court for
 the Central District of Illinois, converted the part-time
 bankruptcy judge position at Danville from part-time to full-
 time status and directed that this change become effective as
 soon as possible.
                  BANKRUPTCY INTERIM RULE
         Judge DeMascio informed the Conference that the
 Committee had reviewed and discussed the experience of the
 district courts and bankruptcy courts under the Interim Rule
 procedures recommended by the Judicial Conference and
 adopted in all courts. He stated that the relatively small
 number of references of bankruptcy matters to the district
 courts and their subsequent disposition clearly demonstrates
 that the district courts are capable of disposing of all such
 matters in a timely fashion. The Interim Rule has thus averted
 the potential crisis resulting from the Supreme Court's decision
 on the constitutional limitation on the bankruptcy court's
jurisdiction in the Northern Pipeline case.


             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
            OF THE FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM
       Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jr., Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Federal Magistrates System,
presented the Committee's report.

              CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS
      At its session in March, 1983 (Conf. Rept., p. 25), the
Conference authorized the Executive Committee to consider


                               70
promptly any recommendation emanating from the next
meeting of the Magistrates Committee for an additional full-
time magistrate position at Montgomery in the Middle District
of Alabama. Judge Skopil informed the Conference that the
Executive Committee had approved the creation of this
position. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference ratified the action taken by its Executive
Committee.

       Judge Skopil also stated that the Committee had
commenced a study of all part-time magistrate positions at the
two lowest standard salary levels and had made inquiry to the
magistrates affected and the chief judges of their courts as to
the need to retain each of the positions and the adequacy of
the compensation. The responses are being compiled and will
be analyzed by the Committee at its next meeting. In the
meanwhile the Committee recommended that the part-time
magistrate positions in these categories that will expire before
the Committee and the Conference can act on the study be
continued for additional four-year terms at the currently
authorized salaries, subject to later review as part of the
special study. The Conference approved this recommendation.

        After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts and the Judicial Councils of the
circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
magistrate positions, including the above recommendations.
Unless otherwise indicated, these changes are to become
 effective when appropriated funds are available. The salaries
 of full-time magistrate positions are to be determined in
 accordance with the salary plan previously adopted by the
 Conference.
                        FIRST CIRCUIT

 Maine:

      (1)    Authorized the clerk of court at Portland to
             perform the duties of ,a part-time magistrate for
             an additional four-year term at the currently
             authorized additional compensation of $936 per
             annum.



                               71
Massachusetts:

      (i)    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Boston which is due to expire on June 13, 1984, for
             an additional eight-year term.

     (2)     Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Cape Cod National Seashore for an additional
             four-year term at the currently authorized salary
             of $4,680 per annum.
                      SECOND CIRCUIT

New York, Northern:

      (1)    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Watertown from $1,872 per annum to
             $10,400 per annum.

New York, Southern:

      (1)    Authorized a ninth full-time magistrate position at
             White Plains or New York City.
New York, Eastern:

      (1)    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Brooklyn which is due to expire on May, 13, 1984,
             for an additional eight-year term.
                        THIRD CIRCUIT

Virgin Islands:
      (1)    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Christiansted from $21,112 per annum
             to $31,800 per annum.

                      FOURTH CIRCUIT
Maryland:

      (1)    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Baltimore which is due to expire on September 30,
             1984, for an additional eight-year term.


                              72
       (2)    Contipued the part-time magistrate position at
              Upper Marlboro for an additional four-year term
              at the currently authorized salary of $31,800 per
              annum.
 North Carolina, Western:

      (1)     Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              Charlotte for an additional four-year term at the
              currently authorized salary of $31,800 per annum.

 South Carolina:
      (1)     Converted the part-time magistrate position at
              Columbia to a full-time magistrate position.
      (2)     Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              Columbia for an additional four-year term at the
              currently authorized salary of $12,272 per annum,
              until conversion of the position to full-time status.

West Virginia, Southern:
      (1)    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Huntington for an additional eight-year term.
      (2)    Continued      the part-time magistrate position at
             Lewisburg     for an additional four-year term at the
             currently    authorized salary of $936 per annum,
             subject to   later review.

                          FIFTH CIRCUIT
Louisiana, Eastern:
     (1)     Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             New Orleans which is due to expire on August 31,
             1985, for an additional eight-year term.
     (2)     Authorized a sixth full-time magistrate position at
             New Orleans.
Louisiana, Western:
     (1)     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Lake Charles from $18,616 per annum
             to $21,112 per annum.

                                 73
Mississippi, Northern:

     (1)    Increased the aggregate compensation of the
            combination clerk-rnagistrate position at Oxford
            to that of a clerk of a large district court.
Texas, Eastern:

     (1)    Authorized a second full-time magistrate position
            at Tyler.

     (2)    Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
            position at Sherman from $31,800 per annum to
            $2,808 per annum upon the appointment of the
            second full-time magistrate at Tyler.
                         SIXTH CIRCUIT

Kentucky, Eastern:

     (1)    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Covington for an additional four-year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $6,656 per annum.

Michigan, Western:

     (1)    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
            position at Kalamazoo from $6,656 per annumn to
            $31,800 per annum.
Ohio, Southern:
     (1)    Authorized a second full-time magistrate position
            at Cincinnati.

Tennessee, Middle:
     (1)    Authorized a second full-time magistrate position
            at Nashville.
     (2)    Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
            Columbia upon the appointment of the second full-
            time magistrate at Nashville.




                              74
                             SEVENTH CIRCUIT
  Illinois, Central:

           (1)     Converted the combination bankruptcy
                                                                 judge-
                   magistrate position at Danville to a
                   magistrate position at Danville or Peoria. full-time

        (2)        Authorized the court to split the combination
                   bankruptcy judge-magistrate position
                                                           at Danville
                   and to establish a part-time magistrate position
                   that location at a salary of $3,744 per          at
                                                            annum, to
                   serve until the full-time magistrate at
                                                           Danville or
                   Peoria is appointed.
       (3)        Discontinued the part-time magistrate
                                                        position at
                  Peoria upon the appointment of the
                                                         full-time
                  magistrate at Danville or Peoria.
 Indiana, Northern:
      (1)         Changed the location of the full-time
                                                        magistrate
                  position at South Bend to Fort Wayne.
      (2)        Established a part-time magistrate
                                                         position at
                 South Bend at a salary of $21,112 per annum.
      (3)        Discontinued the part-time magistrate
                                                         position at
                 Fort Wayne effective upon the appointment
                                                               of the
                 part-time magistrate at South Bend.
      (4)        Discontinued the part-time magistrate position
                                                                   at
                 Lafayette.
Indiana, Southern:
     (l)         Continued the part-time magistrate position
                 Evansville for an additional four-year term       at
                 currently authorized salary of $4,680 per    at the
                                                           annum.
Wisconsin, Western:
     (1)         Continued the part-time magistrate
                                                     position at
                 Tomah for an additional four-year term
                 currently authorized salary of $936      at the
                                                     per annum,
                 subject to later review.


                                  .75
                       EIGHTH CIRCUIT
 Arkansas, Western:

      (1)    Continued the part-time magistrate Position at
             Texarkana for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $1,872 per annum,
             subject to later review.
 Iowa, Southern:
      (1)    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Burlington for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $3,744 per annum.

Missouri, Eastern:
      (1)    Continued the full-time magistrate position at St.
             Louis which is due to expire on September 30,
             1984, for an additional eight-year term.

North Dakota:
     (1)    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
            position at Fargo from $4,680 per annum to
            $31,80 per annum.
     (2)    Authorized the part-time magistrate at Fargo to
            perform the duties of bankruptcy judge at no
            additional compensation.        1
     (3)    Waived the requirement of a full-field background
            investigation and authorized a complete review of
            the arrangements at Fargo next year.
South Dakota:
     (1)    Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
            Pierre and Rapid City for additional four-year
            terms at the currently authorized salary of
            $14,144 per annum for each position.




                             76
                         NINTH CIRCUIT

 Arizona:
       (1)    Continued the Part-time magistrate position at
              Flagstaff for an additional four-year term at the
              currently authorized salary of $4,680 per annum.

 California, Central:
      (1)     Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
              Santa Ana and San Luis Obispo for additional four-
              year terms at the currently authorized salary of
              $16,120 per annum for each position.

Hawaii:
      (1)     increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
              position at Honolulu from $16,120 per annum to
              $31,800 per annum.
      (2)    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Johnston Island for an additional four-year term at
             the currently authorized salary of $936 per annum,    :
             subject to later review.

Oregon:
     (1)     Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Portland which is due to expire on October 17,
             1984, for an additional eight-year term.
     (2)     Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Pendleton for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $2,808 per annum.
                        TENTH CIRCUIT
Colorado:
     (1)     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Colorado Springs from $21,112 per
             annum to $31,800 per annum.
    (2)      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Grand Junction from $27,820 per
             annum to $31,800 per annum.

                              77
Kansas:
     (1)      Continued the full-time magistrate position at
              Kansas City for an additional eight-year term.
New Mexico:

     (1)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
           Albuquerque for an additional four-year term and
           increased the salary of the position from $27,820
           per annum to $31,800 per annum.
     (2)   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
           position at Santa Fe from $1,872 per annum to an
           annual rate of $31,800, for a three-month period.
           Following the three-month period, the salary of
           the position will be set temporarily at an annual
           rate of $3,744 per annum until the vacant part-
           time positions at Roswell and Clovis (or Portales)
           are filled, abolished, or consolidated with other
           magistrate positions. At that time the salary of
           the part-time magistrate position at Santa Fe will
           revert to $1,872 per annum.
     (3)   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
            Sosition at Las Cruces from $16,120 per annum to
             18,616 per annum.
     (4)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
           Roswell for an additional four-year term at the
           currently authorized salary of $936 per annum,
           subject to later review.

Oklahoma, Eastern:
     (1)   Continued     the part-time magistrate position at
           Muskogee     for an additional four-year term and
           increased   the salary of the position from $21,112
           per annum    to $31,800 per annum.

     (2)   Continued     the part-time magistrate position at
           McAlester     for an additional four-year term and
           increased   the salary of the position from $1,872
           per annum    to $3,744 per annum.




                              78
        (3)     Discontinued the part-time magistrate position
                                                               at
                Sulphur.
  Oklahoma, Western:
        (1)    Authorized a third full-time magistrate position at
               Oklahoma City, and authorized a review of the
               position in two years or when an additional judge is
               appointed for the district, whichever is later.
       (2)     Discontinued the part-time magistrate position
                                                              at
               Altus.
 Wyoming:
       (1)     Fixed the salary of the magistrate position
                                                            at
               Yellowstone National Park at 52 percent of the
               maximum salary of a full-time magistrate.

                       ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
 Alabama, Middle:
      (1)     Ratified the action of the Executive Committee
              authorizing a second full-time magistrate position
              at Montgomery.
Georgia, Northern:
      (1)     Continued the full-time magistrate position
                                                          at
              Atlanta which is due to expire on November 30,
              1985, for an additional eight-year term.
      (2)     Authorized a fifth full-time magistrate position at
              Atlanta.
      (3)     Discontinued the part-time magistrate position
                                                             at
              Newnan (or La Grange) upon the appointment of
              the fifth full-time magistrate in Atlanta.
        Judge Skopil noted that the above changes in salaries
and the creation of new positions are subject to the
                                                     availability
of funds. On behalf of the Committee he submitted
priorities for implementing changes which was approveda list of
                                                          by the
Conference.



                              79
                  COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT THE
                     CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT

          Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the Committee
    to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented the report of
    the Committee.
                  APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

            Judge MacBride submitted to the Conference a
    summary report on appointments and payments under the
    Criminal Justice Act for the six-month period ending March
    31, 1983. The report indicated that Congress had appropriated
    $32,215,000 for "Defender Services" for the fiscal year 1983
    and that projected obligations for the year are $34,215,000. A
    supplemental appropriations bill in the amount of $2,000,000
    was signed into law on July 29, 1983.         A recent revised
    projection of expenditures indicates the need for an additional
    $900,000 for the current fiscal year and funds to offset this
    additional projected deficiency have been included in a
    supplemental request for the fiscal year 1984.
           During the first half of the fiscal year 1983,
    approximately 20,700 persons were represented under the
    Criminal Justice Act, compared to 19,400 in the first half of
    the fiscal year 1982, an increase of 6.7 percent. The increase
    in appointments under the Act parallels an 8.9 percent increase
    in criminal case filings during the twelve month period ending
    March 31, 1983.        Of these persons, Federal Public and
    Cornmunity Defender Organizations represented              12,576
    persons, or 61 percent of the total representations, a 16.4
    percent increase from the 10,805 appointments received by
    federal defenders during the first half of the fiscal year 1982.
            Judge MacBride stated that a comprehensive report for
    the entire fiscal year 1983 will be presented to the Conference
    at its session in March.

                       BUDGET REQUESTS -
                   FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS

           The Criminal Justice Act, as amended, requires each
    Federal Public Defender organization, established pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. 3006A~h)(2)(A), to submit a proposed budget to be
    approved by the Judicial Conference in accordance with 28
    U.S.C. 605. Judge MacBride stated that the Committee had

                                  80

L
reviewed 15 requestsfor supplemental funding for the fiscal
year 1984 and had reviewed requests for 33 of the 34 public
defender organizations for the fiscal year 1985. The Federal
Public Defender Organization for the District of Oregon, which
was recently converted from a Community Defender
Organization, will submit its fiscal year 1985 budget request
for consideration by the Committee at its next meeting.
        The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved supplemental budget requests for the
fiscal year 1984 for Federal Public Defender organizations as
follows:


     California, Northern ..........             $ 66 ,561
     California, Eastern ...........                51 ,267
     Connecticut....................                37 ,753
     Florida, Northern .............                  '7,336
     Hawaii.........................                97 ,342
      Illinois, Central &
        Southern & Missouri,
        Has tern......................             101 ,709
     Kansas.........................                28,772
     Louisiana, Eastern ............                41,588
     Maryland.......................                26,329
     Minnesota......................                39,760
     Nevada.........................                58,161
     New Mexico .....................               37,279
     Tennessee, Middle .............                54,667
     Texas, Southern ...............                41,116
     Virgin islands ................                12,518
           TOTAL .............              $     702,158        .....
       The Conference, also upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved budget requests for the fiscal year 1985
for Federal Public Defender organizations as follows:

    Ar izona ........................ $   880,045
    California, Northern ..........       941 ,722
    California, Eastern ...........       798,588
    California, Central ...........     1,655,090
    Colorado.......................       382,038
    Connect icut....................      387,631
    Florida, Northern .............       246,042
    Florida, Middle ...............       558,492

                            81
     Florida, Southern ..............            1,139 ,420
     Georgia, Southern .............                310 ,651
     Hawaii.........................                424 ,027
      Illinois, Central &
        Southern & Missouri,
        Eastern ......................             315,495
     Kansas.........................               359, 149
     Kentucky, Eastern .............               285,541
     Louisijana, Eastern ............              382,504
     Ma ryl and.......................             734,785
     Massachusetts .................               315, 100
     Minnesota......................               254,618
     Missouri, Western .............               530,223
     Nevada.........................               443,864
     New Jersey ....................               702,277
     New Mexico ....................               331,396
     Ohio, Northern ................               308,888
     Pennsylvania, Western .........               317,200
     Puerto Rico ...................               351 ,116
     South Carolina ................               308,840
     Tennessee, Middle .............               306,662
     Tennessee, Western ............               197,939
     Texas, Southern ...............               716,651
     Texas, Western ................               634,445
     Virgin Islands ................               432,490
     Washington, Western ...........               428,696
     West Virginia, Southern..                     211,618
            TOTAL ............... ............
                                      $16,593,243
       Judge MacBride informed the Conference that the
above budgets for the fiscal year 1985 were based on projected
caseloads and that the Committee will entertain requests for
supplemental funding if workloads or other factors warrant
reconsideration of funding needs.

                GRANT REQUESTS -
        COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

       The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved supplemental sustaining rants for -the
fiscal year 1984 for the following Community Defender
Organizations:




                             82
I
               Federal lYefender Program,
               Inc., Georgia,
               Northern.................. $            21,813

               Federal Defender Program,
               Inc., Illinois,
               Northern .................              68,2201

                      TOTAL................ $          90,014

           The Conference also approved sustaining rants for the
    fiscal year 1985 for five of the six Community Defender
    Organizations as follows:
               Federal Defenders of San
               Diego, Inc. - California,
               Southern.................. $ 1,256,495

               Federal Defender Program,
               Inc. - Georgia,
               Northern .................            430,638

               Federal Defender Program,
               Inc. - Illinois,
               Nor them...................            730,914

               Legal Aid and Defender
               Assn. of Detroit,
               Federal Defender
               Division - Michigan,
               Eas tern ..................            747,478

               Defender Assn. of Phila-
               delphia, Federal Court
               Division - Pennsylvania,
               Eastern ..................             551 ,707

                      TOTAL ..............     .$ 3,717,232

           Judge MacBride stated that the Committee will
    consider the fiscal year 1985 grant request of the Community
    Defender Organization for the Eastern and Southern Districts
    of New York at its next meeting.




                                     83
                          'GUIDELINES
        The Committee 'submitted to the Conference the
 following amendments to the Guidelines for the Administration
 of the Criminal Justice Act which were approved by the
 Conference:
       1.     An amendment to paragraph 2.22A to require
             counsel claiming compensation in excess of $750
              to attach to the CJA voucher a memorandum
             detailing the services provided (an increase from
             the existing $400 threshhold level) and to
             authorize a judicial officer to require the
             submission of such a memorandum for a claim less
             than $750 in a district court and any amount in the
             court of appeals.
      2.     An amendment to paragraph 2.22B3 to make it
             clear that the maximum compensation that may be
             paid under the Act is to be determined on the basis
             of the offense originally charged.
      3.    A new paragraph 2.22C, to encourage, in
            appropriate circumstances, a judicial officer to
            provide an explanation to appointed counsel of the
            reasons why a claim for compensation has been
            reduced, and redesignated paragraphs 2.220 and
            2.22D as paragraphs 2.22D and 2.22E, respectively.
      AMENDMENTS TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT
        H.R. 3233, 98th Congress, is a bill to vest authority in
the Judicial Conference to establish hourly rates of
compensation payable to counsel appointed under the Criminal
Justice Act and to make periodic adjustments in these hourly
rates for fair and reasonable compensation of counsel in the
light of changing economic conditions.
      Judge MacBride informed the Conference that the
Executive Committee had approved the following resolution
which was subsequently transmitted to the Congress:
     The Judicial Conference of the United States,
     through its Executive Committee, favors an
     amendment to the Criminal Justice Act which
     would authorize the Judicial Conference to


                             84
          establish and modify all dollar limitations on
          compensation under the Act. This would include
          the hourly rates of compensation for attorneys,
          the per-case compensation maxima for attorneys,
          and the limits relating to the compensation for
          investigative, expert and other services.

             Judge MacBride further stated, however, that the staff
     of the House Judiciary Committee was considering a proposal
     to increase the maximum hourly rates to $75 per hour for
     services performed by appointed counsel both in and out of
     court and to increase the maximum allowable compensation for
     various proceedings to a level below those contained in H.R.
     3233. After full discussion the Conference reaffirmed the
     action of its Executive Committee. The Conference also
     indicated that an increase in the hourly rate to $75 per hour,
     both in and out of court, and increasing the maximum
     compensation to $5,000 for a felony case, $1,500 for a
     misdemeanor, $3,000 for an appeal, and $1,000 for other
     proceedings, with authority in the judicial council of the
     circuit to set rates on a district-by-district basis within the
     maximum hourly rates and maximum allowable compensation
     established by the statute or the Judicial Conference, would be
     acceptable.
           RATIFICATION OF EXPENSES INCURRED PRIOR
                       TO AUTHORIZATION

             At its session in September, 1982 (Conf. Rept. p. 111)
     the Conference, upon the recommendation of the Committee,
     amended paragraph 3.02B of the Guidelines for the
     Administration of the Criminal Justice Act to reflect the
     present language of the Act prohibiting nunc pro tunc
     approvals of payments for investigative, expert, or other
     services costing in excess of $150. The Committee is of the
     view, however, that judges and magistrates should have the
     flexibility to give retroactive approval of expenses incurred for
     these services. Upon the recommendation of the Committee,
     the Conference approved and authorized the transmittal to
      Congress of proposed legislation, submitted by the Committee,
     to allow a judge or magistrate to approve in the interest of
     justice and upon a finding that timely procurement of
     necessary services could not await prior authorization,
     payment for such services, after they have been obtained, even
      where the cost of such services exceeds $300.


                                    85



i-
                      LEGAL MALPRACTICE
        The Conference authorized the Committee to give
 further consideration to a provision contained in H.R. 3233,
 98th Congress, to authorize the Director of the Administrative
 Office to obtain legal malpractice insurance or hold harmless
 defenders sued in legal malpractice actions.


            COMMNITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
                  OF THE CRIMINAL LAW
        Judge John D. Butzner, Jr., Chairman of the Committee
 on the Administration of the Criminal Law, presented the
 report of the Committee.

                         BAIL REFORM
        The Conference in March, 1983 (ConE. Rept., p. 29),
approved the various suggestions of the Committee to amend a
draft bill, submitted for consideration by the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Courts,          Civil   Liberties, and the
Administration of Justice, to reform the Bail Act of 1966.
Judge Butzner stated that the draft bill was subsequently
amended to conform in all substantial respects with the
position taken by the Conference and was then introduced by
Congressman Kastenmeier as H.R. 3005, 98th Congress.

         Judge Butzner reported that the Committee had again
 considered the proposals contained in this bill and had reviewed
 S. 215, 98th Congress, and the bail reform provisions contained
 in S. 829, 98th Congress, the "Comprehensive Crime Control
 Act of 1983."1 The principal difference between the Senate
 bills and the House bill is a provision in the procedures
 established for the preventive detention of persons accused of
 Federal criminal law offenses. While the Committee considers
 these provisions to be matters of policy for Congressional
determination, it was concerned that a provision in the Senate
bills prohibiting a judicial officer from imposing a financial
condition that results in the pretrial detention of a person may
require the release of a person who claims he is unable to meet
a financial condition of release which the court had determined
was required in order to assure the person's future
appearance. The Senate Committee report on S. 215, S. Rept.
98-147, indicated that this was not the intended effect of the
provision.       The   Conference      thereupon    approved a


                              86
 recommendation of th&'Committee that this provision in S. 215
 and S. 829 be amended to conform with the legislative intent
 expressed in the Senate report.
      COMPREHENSIVE CRIME CONTROL ACT OF 1983
        S. 829, 98th Congress, the "Comprehensive Crime
Control Act of 1983"1 does not attempt an overall revision of
Title 18, United States Code, as had prior criminal code reform
bills. Rather it provides for a number of reforms in the
Federal criminal justice system including, inter alia, reforms in
bail as discussed above, sentencing, forfeiture, the formulation
of the insanity defense, and procedures for civil commitment.
The bill also contains substantive and procedural amendments
to specific criminal offenses. Judge Butzner informed the
Conference that the Committee had reviewed the provisions of
S. 829 and had comments with respect to only two of its
provisions.
        The bill would amend Rule 704, Federal Rules of
 Evidence, to prohibit an expert witness, who testifies with
respect to the mental state or condition of a defendant, from
stating an opinion or inference as to whether the defendant did
or did not have the mental state or condition constituting an
element of the crime charged or of a defense thereto. The
Committee expressed concern that the language, as drafted,
failed to address lay witnesses and noted that the amendment,
if adolted, was likely to produce difficult questions on appeal
as to whether the Rule had in fact been violated. The
Committee, however, made no recommendation concerning
this provision of the bill.
        The bill also includes a provision making it a crime to
 threaten or injure a family member of a United States judge in
circumstances relating to the performance of the judge's
duties. The Committee recommended that the Conference
endorse this provision as well as reiterate its endorsement of
legislation to make it a crime for a person to threaten with
bodily harm or seek to intimidate officers and employees of
the United States courts. (See Conf. Repts. Sept. 1980, P. 105,
and Sept. 1981, p. 94).        The Conference approved the
recommendation of the Committee.




                             87
                                          WITNESS SECURITY

        S. 474, 98th Congress, would provide for the protection
of Government witnesses in criminal cases and S. 1178, 98th
Congress, would provide for the rights of third parties seeking
to enforce court judgments directed against protected
witnesses. Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference endorsed the provisions of S. 474 making an
a ,reement entered into between the Attorney General and a
protected witness not legally enforceable, and authorizing a
district court to overturn the Attorney General's decision not
to disclose the identity and location of a protected witness to a
judgment creditor only upon a finding that the Attorney
General's decision was arbitrary and capricious.
                        NATIONAL VIOLENT CRIME PROGRAM

        S. 889, 98th Congress, is a bill to authorize
appropriations to the Department of Justice to carry out the
National Violent Crime Program. The Committee concluded
that the bill was primarily concerned with matters of policy
with respect to which the Conference should not take a
position other than to support the general purposes of the bill.
The Committee recommended that the Conference take no
position with respect to the specific provisions of the bill, but
that it encourage Congress to consider the bill in conjunction
with the effect it would have on the Federal criminal caseload
and the needs of the Federal judiciary. This recommendation
was approved by the Conference.


                  COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION OF THE
                            JURY SYSTEM

       Judge June L. Green, a member of the Committee on
the Operation of the Jury System, presented the report of the
Committee, in the absence of the Chairman, Judge T. Emmet
Clare.
                 JUROR QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAIRE
           The Committee submitted to the Conference a revised
juror   qualification              form      for   Conference   approval   as   required   by


28 U.S.C.               1869(h).          Judge Green explained that the form has
been reduced in size to avoid the necessity of paying additional
postage charges for oversized material. The content of the

                                                      88


                                                                                                I
form remains the same except that it includes a provision for a
prospective juror to indicate whether or not the juror is
Hispanic. The Conference thereupon approved the new form.


      IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEE ON ADMISSION
        OF ATTORNEYS TO FEDERAL PRACTICE

       Judge James R. Miller, Jr., in the absence of Judge
James Lawrence King, Chairman of the Implementation
Committee on Admission of Attorneys to Federal Practice,
presented the Committee's report.
       Judge Miller stated that the Committee had spent
considerable time in discussing the timing and appropriate
methods of performing an evaluation of the pilot program now
being conducted among the 13 United States district courts
experimenting with the implementation of Federal attorney
admission standards and had received advice and assistance
from Professor Levin and the staff of the Federal Judicial
Center. After consideration of the various purposes to be
served by the evaluation, as originally envisioned by the
Conference in 1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 103), the Committee
determined to commence an evaluation in the near future with
a targeted completion date of July 1, 1985. The evaluation
will address the following issues:
      1.     Have the projections of certain negative
             effects stemming from the pilot program
             been realized?

      2.     What have been the economic and resource
             costs of implementing and applying
             separate Federal admission standards?

      3.     What have been the most significant
             developments in each facet of the pilot
             program as conceived by the Devitt
             Committee in its .1979 report to the
             Judicial Conference?

      4.     Is it now possible to assess the causes of
             whatever change there has been in the state
             of Federal trial advocacy on either an
              objective or subjective basis? If so, what
              have been those causes?

                               89
           The Conference thereupon authorized the Committee to
    undertake an evaluation, with the assistance of the Federal
    Judicial Center, to be compibted on or about July 1, 1985.


             COMMITTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
               CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS

          The written report of the Committee to Review Circuit
    Council Conduct and Disability Orders, submitted by the
    Chairman, Judge Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr., was received by
    the Conference.
           The report indicated that the Committee, since its last
    meeting, had received a petition to review an order of the
    United States Claims Court affirming the dismissal of a
    complaint by its Chief Judge. Consistent with its position,
    stated in its last report to the Conference, that the Committee
    had no authority to review court action approving the dismissal
    of a complaint by its Chief Judge (Conf. Rept., Mar. 1983 p.
    36), the Committee reported that the petition had been
    dismissed for lack of jurisdiction.

             AD HOC COMMITTEE ON THE LAW CLERK
                     SELECTION PROCESS
           Judge Carl McGowan, Chairman of the Ad Hoc
    Committee on the Law Clerk Selection Process, reported that
    because of the short period of time the March, 1983
    Conference resolution on the selection of law clerks has been
    in effect (Cord. Rept. p. 36), the Committee has not had an
*   opportunity to consider its operation.
            Members of the Conference, however, related their
*   experiences in considering law clerk applications and some of
    the difficulties involved in postponing the review of law clerk
    applications until September 15th when many applicants have
    already returned to school.         After full discussion the
    Conference voted to change the date for considering law clerk
    applications from September 15th to July 15th. The resolution,
    as amended, is as follows:




                                  90
     Applications for law clerkships will neither be
     received nor caisidered prior to July 15 after
     completion of the student's second year of law
     school. This policy shall be effective immedilately
     for a trial period of two years, at which time it
     will be reexamined by the C7onference at its March
      1985 meeting in light of the experience under it
     and with the benefit of the views of all federal
     judges formed by reference to that experience.

                         ELECTIONS

       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 621(a)(2), elected
Bankruptcy Judge John J. Galgay to membership on the Board
of the Federal Judicial Center for a term of four years
succeeding Bankruptcy Judge Lloyd George whose term expires
on October 1, 1983.


                PRETERMISSION OF TERMS
               OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS

       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the
pretermission of terms of court of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Tenth Circuit at Oklahoma City, Oklahoma,
and Wichita, Kansas during the calendar year 1984.


            RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

        The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for
legislative or administrative action.



                             Warren E. Burger
                             Chief Justice of the United States

October 28, 1983




                              91
                                                                                                    F




                                                        INDEX
                                                                                        Page

Accommodations; Court Quarters and ....................                                   54
                                                                          "    ...        61
Additional     Judgeships     .......................


Administrative Conference of the United States ............                                 58
Administrative  Office,       U.S.    Courts
   Equal Employment Opportunity Report .................                                    44
   Judicial Business of       the    Courts........................                         44
   Report of the Director ............................                                      4
Admission of Attorneys         to   Federal        Practice:
   Committee on, Report of ............................                                     89
Age Discrimination in Employment                   Act     of  1967 .............           59
American Bar Association............................                                     57,58
Appellate Rules; Advisory Committee on ..................                                   67
Appointments and Payments,               Criminal        Justice    Act    ..........       80
Appropriations (see Budget)
Automation.........................................                                         52
    Ad Hoc Committee          on    ..............................                          52
   Five-year Plan for       ......................                         .........         5
Bail Reform ................................                                  .........      86
Bankruptcy Clerical Positions ...........................                                   62
Bankruptcy Interim Rule.....................                                  .........      70
Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 ................                                 .........     69
Bankruptcy Rules; Advisory Committee                        on.................              67
Bankruptcy System:
    Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges ..................                                    70
    Bankruptcy Interim Rules...........................                                      70
    Committee on, Report of ............................                                     69
    Survey of the Need for Bankruptcy Judges ...                           ...........        69
Biennial Survey of Judgeship Needs ............                           :..........        61
Budget:
    Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1985....................                                   62
    Budget Call .......................................                                       63
    Committee on, Report of ............................                                      61
    Requests - Federal Public Defenders ........                             ..........       80
    Supplemental Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1984 ........                                  61
 Cases Cited:
    Northern Pipeline.......................                                 ..........       70
    Younger v. Harris.......................                                 ..........        59
 Circuit Councils (see Judicial Councils)
 Civil Rules, Advisory Committee on.....................                                       67
 Claims Court........................................                                          90
 Clerks of Courts:
     Leave Records of Court Reporters.....................                                     49



                                                           92
Codes of Conduct:
   Advisory Committee on, Report of ....................                    64
Commission on Executive, Legislative and
   Judicial Salaries ...................................                    47
Community Defender Organizations; Grant Requests .........                  82
Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1983 ............                  68,86,87
Conduct and Disability Orders; Committee
   to Review Circuit Council ...........................                    90
Court Administration:
   Additional Judgeships ...............................                     61
   Annual and Sick Leave for Law
      Clerks and Secretaries............................                     49
   Appeals from the International Trade Commission
     and Certifications from District Courts to the
      Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ..............                60
   Automation .......................................                        52
   Certification of Questions of State Law ................                 57
   Committee on, Report of ............................                     47
   Court Quarters and Accommodations ..................                     54
   Court Reporter Positions ............................                    51
   Court Reporters' Annual Leave........................                     49
   Courtroom Facilities ...............................                     50
   Discrimination in Employment.......................                      59
   Electronic Sound Recording ..........................                    47
   Federal Tort Claims Act............................                       59
   Fees of Court Reporters............................                       51
   Frivolous Litigation ................................                    56
   Habeas Corpus Reform ..............................                       56
   Limitation on the Jurisdiction of
      Federal Courts over State Cases.....................                   58
   Peremptory Challenges of                 Judges......................     60
   Places of Holding Court              .............................        55
   Race to the Courthouse .............................                      58
   Retirment Coverage for Law Clerks ...................                     53
Court Facilities......................................                       50
Court Quarters and Accommodations .....................                      54
Court Reporters:
   AnnualLeave.....................................                          49
    Electronic Sound Recording ..........................                    47
   Fees of..........................................                         51
    Positions.........................................                        51
Courts of Appeals:
    Federal Circuit, Certifications from
      districtecourts ...................................                    60
    Pretermission      of  Terms.............................                 91



                                       93
                                                                                                            7

                                                                                                            F
Criminal Justice Act:
   Amendments to the Criminal Justice Act .............                                              84
   Appointments         and    Paym~lts........................                                      80
   Budget Requests          -  Federal        Public      Defenders     ..........                   80
   Committee on, Report                of  ..........................                                80
   Grant Requests - Community Defender Organizations                                         ....    82
   Guidelines ......................................                                                 84
   Legal Malpractice................................                                                 86
   Ratification of Expenses Incurred Prior
      to Authorization ...............................                                               85
Criminal Law:
   Bail Reform..........................                                 .....................       86
   Committee on, Report of...............                                .....................       86
   Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1983 ..                            .....................       87
   National Violent Crime Program ..........                                     I   ..
                                                                                   ....        ...   88
   Witness Security......................                                .....................       88
Criminal Rules; Advisory Committee on .......                            .....................       67
Discrimination in Employment .............
Election ...............................                                 .....................       479
Electronic Sound Recording................                               .....................       471
   Ad Hoc Committee to Monitor Regulations.
Equal Employment Opportunity Plans .........                             .....................       44
Ethics (see Judicial Ethics Committee)
Evidence Rules..........................                                 ...................      66,87
Executive Committee Actions:
   Changes in Magistrates Positions ........                                     ....... ... 70
   Criminal Justice Act Amendments .......                                       ....... ... 84
   Social Security Amendments Act of 1983 ... .....................                                  46
Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1982 ......                             .....................      47
Federal Judicial      Center:
   Board; Election to.....................                                                           91
   Electronic Sound Recording;                    Report       of  study                             47
   Frivolous Litigation           ...........                                                         56
    Questions of State Law; Study on..                                                                5.7
   Report of the Director .........                                                                  43
Federal Public Defenders
    Budget Requests ...............                                                                   80
    Legal Malpractice Insurance                  ......                                               86
Fees of Court Reporters ............                                                                  51
Financial Disclosure Reports .......                                                                  63
Frivolous Litigation ..............                                                                   56
General Services Administration:
    Memorandum of Understanding ......................                                                54
    Space Rental Appropriations; FY 1985 ...............                                              62
Grant Requests - Community Defender Organizations .......                                             82



                                                   94




                                                                                                            I
Guidelines:
    Criminal Justice Act ...............               ..........          84,85
Habeas Corpus Reform .................................                         56
Intercircuit Assignments; Committee on, Report of ..........                   65
Interlocutory Appeals; Corrective legislation ...............                  60
International Trade Commission; Appeals from the ..........                    60
Judges:
    Bankruptcy:
      Arrangments for.............................                        ... 70
      Survey    of   the   Need       for........................        ...   69
    Peremptory       Challenges          of............................         60
    Senior Judges;         Social      Security.......................         45
Judgeships; Additional .................................                       61
Judicial Branch:
    Committee on, Report of ............................                       45
    Quadrennial       Salary      Commission......................             47
    Social Security Amendments Act of 1983 ...............                      45
Judicial Business of the Courts...........................                      44
Judicial Conference:
    Call of ..........................................                         41
    Release of Action ..................................                        91
Judicial Councils:
    Court Quarters and Accommodations ..................                        54
Judicial Ethics:
    Activities of the Committee ..................                              63
    Committee on, Report of.........................                            63
    Reporting Form and Instructions6............                               3
Judicial Improvements; Subcommittee on ..................                        53
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ................                  45,58
 Jurisdiction of Federal Courts over State
     Cases; Limitation on the ............................                       58
Juror Qualifications; Questionnaire.......................                      88
 Jury System:
     Committee on, Report of ............................                       88
     Juror Qualification Questionnaire .....................                     88
 Law Clerks:
     Ad Hoc Committee on Selection Process ................                      90
     Annual Leave for...............................                    :...    49
     Retirement Coverage for ............................                        53
 Leave Act .........................................                            4
 Legislation:
     Appeals from the International Trade Commission
       and Certifications from District Courts to the
       Courts of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ..............                   60
     Bail Reform......................................                           86



                                           95
                                                                         7




Legislation (continued):
   Comprehensive Crimne Control Act of 1983 .........        68,86,87
   Criminal Justice Act; Amendments to..................            84
   Discrimination in Employment.......................             59
   Frivolous Litigation; Exhaust State Remedies ............       56
   Habeas Corpus Reform ..............................             56
   Jurisdiction of Federal Courts over State
     Cases; Limitation on the..........................            58
   Legal Malpractice ..................................             86
   National Violent Crime Program ......................            88
   Peremptory Challenges of Judges......................           60
   Places of Holding Court .............................           55
   Ratification of Expenses Incurred Prior
      to Authorization; Under CJA........................           85
   Rules  Enabling  Acts    ................................       65
   Sentencing Reform .................................              68
   Social Security Amendments Act of 1983 ...............           45
   Witness Security ...................................             88
Magistrates System:
   Changes in Magistrates Positions......................          70
   Committee on, Report of ............................             70
Malpractice; Insurance for defenders......................          86
Multidistrict Litigation; Judicial Panel on ...............     45,58
National Violent Crime Program........................             88
Northern Pipeline .....................................             70
Office of Personnel Management.........................             53
Operating Procedures (Rules Committees) .................           66
Peremptory Challenges of Judges ........................            60
Places of Holding Court ................................            55
Pretermission of Terms of the Courts of Appeals ............        91
Probation System:
   Committee on; Report of ............................             67
   Sentencing Institutes ...............................           69
   Sentencing Reform .................................              68
Quarters and Accommodations..........................               54
Race to the Courthouse ................................             58
Release of Conference Action..........................              91
Retirement Coverage for Law Clerks....................              53
Rules of Practice and Procedure:
   Advisory Committees ...............................              67
   Committee on, Report of ............................             65
   Evidence Rules ....................................              87
   Local Rules of Court ...............................             67
   Operating Procedures ...............................             66
    Rules Enabling Acts ................................            65


                                96
I
k


    Salaries:
        Commission on Executive, Legislative and
         Judicial Salaries ................................                47
    Secretaries:
        Annual Leave for.................................                  49
    Senior Judges:
        Social Security Amendments .......................
                                                                           45
    Sentencing:
     Commission ..........................                  ............   68
     Institutes.........................................                   69
     Reform ..........................................                     68
    Social Security Amendments Act of 1983 ................                45
    Space and facilities (see Quarters & Accommodations)
    State Law; Certification of Questions of ................              57
    Threats to judicial employees .........................                87
    Torts Claims Act; Federal ............................                 59
    Uniform Certification of Questions of Law Act ...........              57
    Venue in courts of appeals and district courts ............            58
    Violent Crime Program; National ......................                 88
    Witness Security....................................                   88




                                         97
