          REPORT 

            of the
   PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 




        March 6-7,   1985




        Washington, D. C
              1985
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 


    Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr.
        Acting Director
          REPORT 

             of the 

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 


         March 6 -7, 1985




        Washington, D. C.
              1985
  THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331
§ 331. IUDlClM. CoNFERENCE OFnfE UNITED STATES

   The Chief Iustice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of each
judicial circuit. and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at such
time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such confer­
ence which shall be mown as the Iudicial Conference of the United States. Special ses­
sions of the conference may be called by the Cbief Iustice at such times and places as he
may designate.
  The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shalt be chosen by the cir·
cuit and district judaes of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held
pursuant to section 333 of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for
three successive ]'ean, escept that in the ]'e8l' foOowing the enactment of this amended
section the judges in the first. fourth, IIe¥eI1th' and tenth circuits shall choose a district
judge to serve for one year, the judges in the sec:ond, fifth. and eishth circuits shall
choose a district judge to serve for two ]'ean and the judges in the third. siJ:th. ninth, and
District of Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for three years.
   If the c:hief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit
is Wlable to attend. the Chief Justice may summon any other circuit or district judge from
such circuit. Every judge summoned shall attend and. lIDless excused by the Cbief Justice.
shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to the needs of his
circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of wbich the administration of justice in
the courts of the United States may be improved.
  The Conference shall mate a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from circuits
or districts where necessary. It shall also submit suggestions and recommendations to the
various courts to promote Wliformity of manaaanent procedures and the expeditious con­
duct of court business. The Conference is authorized to e:mcise the authority provided in
section 372(c) of this title as the Conference. or through a Itandilla committee. If the
Conference elects to establish a Itanding committee, it shall be appointed by the Chief
Justice and all petitions for reoriew shall be reriewed by that committee. The Conference
or the standing committee may bold hearinp, tate SWorD testimony. issue subpoenas and
subpoenas duces tecum, and mate necessary and appropriate orders in the exerdse of its
authority. Subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum shall be issued by the dert of the Su­
preme Court or by the dert of any court of appeals. at the direction of the Cbief Justice
or bis designee and WIder the seal of the court, and shall be IIeI'Yed ill the manner pro­
vided in rule 4S(c) of the Federal Rules of CivIl Procedure for lubpoenas and subpoenas
duces teclUD issued 011 behalf of the United States or an ofticer or any apncy thereof.
The Conference may also prescribe and modify rules for the ezerdae of the authority pro­
vided ill section 372(c) of this title. AD judicial ofticers and employees of the United
States shall promptly carry into effect all orders of the Judicial Conference or the stand­
iD, committee established punuaDt to thiI section.

  The Conference shall also carry 011 a contiDaolll study of the operation and effect of the
. .eral rules of practb and procedure DOW or bereafter in DIe as prescribed by the Su­
preme Court for the other courts of the Ualted States P1llluant to law. Sucb cbanps in
and additioD. to thole rules a the Conference may deem desirable to promote IimpUdty
iD procedure, fairness iD admiDistrttion, the jut determblatioll of litiption; and the eIi:m­
iDation of IIIljultiflable apIIlle and delay shall be ftICOIDIDClldecl by the Conference from
time to time to the Supreme Court for Its coasIderation and adopdaa. modification or re­
jecdoa. iD lCCOrcIance with law.
  The AttorneJ GeDeraishall, upon request of the Cblef Juta. report to luc:h conference
011matters reiatiD, to the busiDess of the leftl'aI courts of the United States, with partic­
alar referCllce to caa to wbkb the United States is a party.
  The Cblef Juta sh1l1l lubmit to Con. . . an aDDuaI report of the proceediDp of the
Judlcia1 ConfereDce and its recommllldatioa. for JeaUlation.


                                              Iv
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS 

               REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

           JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES 


                                    March 6-7, 1985 


                                                                                        Page

Call 0 f the Con f erence . • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • . •          1

Report of the Director of the Administrative 

  Office of the United States Courts. . . • • • • • • • • • • . • • • •                   4

    Judicial Business of the Courts • . • • • • • • • . . . . • . • . . •                 4

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                   5

Committee on the Judicial Branch. • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • •                   5

    Soc ial Secur i ty . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     5

     Judicial Salaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6

Committee on Court Administration ••.•••••••••••••••                                      6

     Automation • • • • • • . • . • • • • • . . • • • • . . • • . . • • • • • • •         6

     Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges •.•.••.•.•                                8

     Miscellaneous Fee Schedules. • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 8

     Computerized Dockets . • . . . . • • . • • • . . . . . • • . . • • • •               9

     Frivolous Litigation •..•••.•••••••••..•••••.•.•                                    10 

     Judicial Immunity. • • . . • • • • • • • • . . • • • • . • • • • . . • • •          10 

     Reports of Matters Held Under 

       Submission or Advisement ..•...••. . . . • . • • • . . . •                        11 

     Authorization of Temporary 

       Personnel for Judges', • . . • • • . • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • .            13 

     Court Interpreters • . • • • • . • • . • • . • • • • . • • • • • • . • • .          14 

     Secretar ies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      14 

     District Court Executives. • • • • . • • . • • • • . . . • • . . • • •              15 

     Pro Se Law Clerks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           15 

     Court Reporters. . • . . • . . . . . • . . . • . . . . • . . • . . . . . .          16 

    Bankruptcy Clerks Offices ••••••••.••••••.•.••••                                     16 

    Staffing Formula for Pretrial Services. • • • • • • • • • • • • •                    16 

Committee on the Budget. • • • • • • • • • . • . . • • . . • • • • . • . .               17 

    Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1986 • • • . • • . • • • • • •                    17 

JUdicial Ethics Committee. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               17 

Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct. • • • • • • . • • • • . •                        18 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments. . • • • • • • • • . • • • • •                     18 

    Guidelines for Intercircuit Assignments. • • • • • • . • • • • •                     18 

Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure ••••..••••                                  20 

    Bankruptcy Rules • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • •           20 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Probation System •••••••••••••••••••••••••.••••                                        20 

    Sentencing Institutes ••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                     20 

    Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984. • • • • • • • • • •                         21 

    Pretrial Services •••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••                                      21 

                                             v
Committee on the Administration of the 

 Bankruptcy System •.••.•..••......••..••.•• . • • .                                   21 

   References to Bankruptcy Judges ••••••••.••••••••                                   21 

   Recall to Service of Retired 

     Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • . • • • • • • • . . • • . • • . • • • • . .            22 

   Selection and Appointment of 

     Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • •            22 

   Adjustments in Statutory Dollar Amounts. . . • • • • • • • • •                      23 

   Additional Bankruptcy Judgeships •••••••••••••••.•                                  24 

Committee on the Administration of the 

 Federal Magistrates System • • . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . •              24 

   Salaries of Part-Time Magistrates. • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • •                  24 

   Changes in Magistrates Positions. • . • • . . • • . . • • • • • • •                 25 

Committee to Implement the 

 Criminal Justice Act. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •           29 

   Appointments and Payments. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                  29 

   Grant Requests - Community Defender 

        Organizations . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30 

    Budget Requests - Federal Public Defenders. • • . • • • • • •                      30 

    Computer Assisted Legal Research •..••..•••••.•••                                  30 

    Co mpensa tion of Counsel •.••. . • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • . •                31 

    Guidelines . . . . . . • . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31 

Committee on the Administration of
  the Criminal Law .... e.* • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            32 

    Racketerring Activities •••••.••••.••••••••.•...                                   32 

    Protection of Judicial Personnel • • • . . • • . • • • • • • • • • •               32 

Ad Hoc Committee on the Law 

  Clerk Selection Process. . . • . . . . . • . • • . • • . . • • • • . . • •           33 

Ad Hoc Committee on American Inns of Court. . • . • • • . • • •                        33 

Resolution. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34 

Elections. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35 

Pretermission of Terms of the 

      Courts of Appeals • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • • •          35 

Release of Conference Action. • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              35 





                                              vi
                  REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

                  OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 

                      OF THE UNITED STATES 


                         March 6-7, 1985 



      The JUdicial Conference of the United States convened
on March 6, 1985, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of
the United States, issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and continued in
session on March 7. The Chief Justice presided and the
following members of the Conference were present:

First Circuit:

      Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
      Judge W. Arthur Garrity, Jr., District of Massachusetts

Second Circuit:

      Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
      Chief Judge Jack B. Weinstein, Eastern District
       of New York

Third Circuit:

      Chief Judge Ruggero J. Aldisert
      Chief Judge Walter K. Stapleton, District of Delaware

Fourth Circuit:

      Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
      Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., Eastern District of Virginia

Fifth Circuit:

      Chief Judge Charles Clark
      Judge Adrian G. Duplantier, Eastern District of Louisiana

Sixth Circui t:

      Chief Judge Pierce Lively
      Chief Judge Robert M. McRae, Jr., Western District
       of Tennessee



                               1
Seventh Circuit:

      Chief Judge Walter J. Cummings
      Chief Judge John W. Reynolds, Eastern District
       of Wisconsin

Eighth Circui t:

     Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
     Judge Albert G. Schatz, District of Nebraska

Ninth Circuit:

      Chief Judge James R. Browning
      Chief Judge Robert J. McNichols, Eastern District
       of Washington

Tenth Circuit:

      Chief Judge William J. Holloway
      Chief Judge Luther B. Eubanks, Western District
       of Oklahoma

Eleventh Circuit:

      Chief Judge John C. Godbold
      Chief Judge James Lawrence King, Southern District
       of Florida

District of Columbia Circuit:

      Chief Judge Spottswood W. Robinson, III
      Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District
       of Columbia

Federal Circuit:

      Chief Judge Howard T. ;vtarkey




                                2

      Circuit Judges Frank M. Coffin, Edward A. Tam m, Otto
R. Skopil, Jr., and Gerald B. Tjoflat; Senior Circuit Judge Carl
A. McGowan; Senior District Judges Aldon J. Anderson,
Edward T. Gignoux, Elmo B. Hunter, and Thomas J. MacBride;
and District Judges Robert E. De'VIascio and William J. Nealon,
Jr. attended all or some of the sessions of the Conference.

       The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable
Edwin Meese III; the Solicitor General, Honorable Rex E. Lee;
and the Director of the United States Marshal's Service,
Stanley E. Morris, addressed the Conference briefly on matters
of mutual interest to the Department of Justice and the
Conference.

    Dennis W. Shedd, Chief Counsel of the Senate ,Tudiciary
Committee, conveyed the greetings of the Chairman of the
Committee, Honorable Strom Thurmond.

       The President of the American Bar Association, John C.
Shepherd, accompanied by a former President, Justin A.
Stanley, attended the Conference briefly on the first day and
informed the Conference of activities of the American Bar
Association relating to the administration of justice.

       William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts; .Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
Director; James E. Macklin, Executive Assistant Director;
William J. Weller, Legislative Affairs Officer; Daniel R.
Cavan, Deputy Legislative Affairs Officer; Paul C. Summit,
Assistant Legislative Affairs Officer; Deborah fJ. Kirk,
Inspector General; Professor A. Leo Levin, Director of the
Federal .Judicial Center and Charles W. Nihan, Deputy
Director, attended the sessions of the Conference. Mark W.
Cannon, Administrative Assistant to the Chief .Justice, and
Douglas D. McF arland, Judicial Fellow assigned to the Office
of the Administrative Assistant, also attended the sessions of
the Conference.

       The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo
Levin, presented a report on the activities of the Center.




                              3

               REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR 

             OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

             OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 


       The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, William E. Foley, submitted to the Conference a
brief report on the judicial business of the courts during the
calendar year 1984. The Conference authorized its immediate
release.

            JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

       Mr. Foley reported that during the calendar year 1984
there were 32,983 appeals filed in the twelve regional courts of
appeals, an increase of 7.2 percent over the 30,757 appeals
filed during the calendar year 1983. There were 31, 721 appeals
terminated, an increase of 6.6 percent over the previous year,
but 1,262 less than the number filed. As a result appeals
pending on the dockets of the courts of appeals on December
31, 1984 increased 5.5 percent, to a record 24,408 pending
appeals.

       In the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit there were 1,481 appeals filed, an increase of 46.1
percent over the previous year. Appeals from the Merit
Systems Protection Board more than doubled from 386 in 1983
to 858 in 1984 and accounted for 57.9 percent of new filings.
Terminations in the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
rose 44.5 percent to 1,081. Filings, however, were much higher
than terminations and the pending caseload grew 71.8 percent
during the twelve month period.

       Civil cases filed in the United States district courts in
1984 increased a modest 1.7 percent to a record 259,933 cases.
Civil case terminations during the year rose to 260,178 which is
the first time since 1970 that the termination of civil cases in
the district courts has outnumbered filings. Pending civil
actions declined slightly to 246,632 as of December 31, 1984.

        During the year there were 38,538 criminal cases filed
in the district courts, an increase of 4.6 percent from the
36,857 criminal cases filed in 1983. Terminations rose 9.2
percent to 37,229, but were 1,309 cases fewer than the number
filed. As a result the pending criminal caseload on December
31, 1984 increased 6.3 percent to 21,597 pending cases.


                              4
       In 1984 there were 348,488 bankruptcy petitions filed in
the district courts, a decrease of 0.1 percent over the previous
year. There were 314,757 bankruptcy cases closed, 6.6 percent
more than the previous year, and bankruptcy petitions pending
on December 31, 1984 increased 6.0 percent to a record 598,549
cases.

                  JUDICIAL PANEL ON 

                MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION 


       The JUdicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation submitted
a written report to the Conference indicating that in the six
month period ended December 31, 1984 the panel had acted on
462 civil actions pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407. Of that number,
436 actions were centralized for consolidated pretrial
proceedings, including 321 tag-along cases. The panel denied
transfer of 26 actions.

        Since its creation in 1968 the panel has transferred
11, 603 civil actions for centralized pretrial proceedings in
carrying out its responsibilities under the statute.

          COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

       Judge Frank M. Coffin, Chairman of the Committee on
the Judicial Branch, presented the Com mittee's report.

                      SOCIAL SECURITY

       Judge Coffin informed the Conference that the Director
of the Administrative Office had requested the Committee to
review the report of the study conducted by the Administrative
Office concerning social security tax deductions from salaries
of senior judges. The study concluded that senior judges should
be given an option to participate in the social security system
and that, in fairness, judges who were in active service on
April 2, 1983 should also be given such an option. By mail vote
the Com mittee endorsed the report as to senior judges and
judges in service on April 2, 1983.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference endorsed the recommendations contained in the
report on the study concerning social security tax deductions
from salaries of judges and authorized its transmission to the
Congress.


                              5
                    JUDICIAL SALA RIES

       Judge Coffin informed the Conference that because of
the delay in completing appointments to the Quadrennial
Com mission on Executive, Legislative and Judicial Salaries it
is now impossible for any commission recommendations to be
submitted to the President and to reach the Congress until the
submission of the fiscal year 1986 budget next year. The
Commission, however, is now fully formed and has held two
meetings. Its staff has received copies of the statements on
the need for increases in judicial salaries which were
authorized to be distributed by the Conference at its last
session.   The Committee is currently working with the
Commission staff and will be prepared to testify in the event
hearings are conducted.

       At the request of Judge Coffin the Conference
authorized the Committee to send a status report to all judges.


         COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

      Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration, presented the report of the Committee.

                        AUTOMATION

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Subcommittee on Judicial Improvements had reviewed the 1985
revision of the Five-Year Plan for automation in the United
States courts in the light of the comments received from the
various circuits and had adopted a number of suggestions for
change. As amended, the Five-Year Plan was unanimously
approved by the Court Administration Committee.          The
Subcommittee has also directed the Administrative Office to
work with the circuit executives and the special committee on
automation to develop an implementation plan for office
automation to be included in the Five-Year Plan. The special
subcommittee on automation will meet again in the Spring of
1986 to review the implementation plan prior to its
presentation to the full SUbcommittee.

      Judge Hunter also informed the Conference that the
Committee remains convinced that the Federal JUdicial Center
and the Administrative Office should systematically develop


                              6
automated data, communication, and office automation
information capabilities in all courts at the fastest possible
rate consistent with sound fiscal and personnel management
policies to facilitate maximum system-wide productivity and
benefit to the federal courts. The Committee further believes
that training of court personnel is an extremely important part
of automation. Some courts are not ready for automation and
will not be until their personnel are trained and their
procedures improved.

      Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved the following policies for the guidance of
the Administrative Office and the Federal Judicial Center:

     1. 	   Encourage and support innovative use of office
            automation equipment by judges and their staffs in
            cooperation with the Administrative Office and the
            Federal Judicial Center; and

     2. 	   Decline approval of funding or proposals for large
            systems developed by any court or independent
            contractor which conflict with or overlap the five­
            year plan for automation because:

            a. 	   Such proposals cause an unnecessary burden
                   on Administrative Office and Federal
                   Judicial Center planning and funding
                   capabilities;

            b. 	   The review of such proposals impairs the
                   ability of the Administrative Office and the
                   Federal Judicial Center to concentrate all
                   personnel efforts and dollar resources to
                   nationwide, systematic development of
                   automated data and word processing
                   capability; and

            c. 	   Such proposals, if approved, would inevitably
                   lead to a balkanization of systems that would
                   preclude cost effective maintenance and
                   enhancement of the courts' automated data
                   and office automation equipment and
                   services.




                               7
      The above should not be construed to forbid funding of
small projects, especially where a private contractor has
available a small system which is compatible with systems in
use in the federal courts.

   TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

       The Administrative Office had submitted to the
Committee proposed changes in the Travel Regulations for
Justices and Judges which were approved by the Conference in
September, 1980 (Conf. Rept., p. 67). Most of the changes are
minor or in implementation of recent legislation.            The
Administrative Office also proposed the inclusion of all judicial
officers, including bankruptcy judges and United States
magistrates, within these regulations.

        It was the view of the Committee that bankruptcy
judges and magistrates should be included in the travel
regulations if at all possible, but has requested the
Administrative Office to provide the Committee with an
opinion on the legality of doing so for consideration at its next
meeting. The Committee was also of the view that a traveler
should be permitted to claim reimbursement for a full meal
even though a light meal, or snack, had been provided by an
airline, provided that the maximum reimbursement is not
exceeded.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved the changes in the travel regulations
recommended by the Administrative Office with the
exceptions noted by the Committee.

             MffiCELLANEOUS FEE SCHEDULES

       At its session in March, 1984 (Conf. Rept., p. 50) the
Conference authorized the free distribution of the local rules
of the United States courts of appeals and requested the
Committee to consider the question of providing for the free
distribution of the local rules of the district courts. A survey
of the clerks of the district courts indicated that half of these
courts currently distribute their local rules free of charge, that
forty percent recoup their cost, and that the remaining ten
percent did not clearly specify their procedures.              The
Administrative Office indicated that there was no legal
impediment to the free distribution of the local rules of the


                               8
district courts. The Committee was of the view, however, that
if local rules of court are to be issued free of charge in
looseleaf form, they should be set out on standard size paper,
8-1/2 x 11 inches, to facilitate copying and further that the
courts should not provide expensive ring binders free of
charge. The Committee noted that the Committee on the
Administration of the Bankruptcy System had suggested that if
copies of local district courts rules are to be provided free of
charge, the local rules governing bankruptcy procedure should
also be distributed free of charge.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference authorized an amendment to the miscellaneous fee
schedules, promulgated pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1914 and 1930, to
allow the free distribution of the local rules of the district
courts including local bankruptcy rules.

       The Committee was also asked to give consideration to
the appropriate method of making pattern jury instructions
available to members of the bar.

                 COMPUTERIZED DOCKETS

       At its session in September, 1980 the Conference
approved the use of computerized criminal dockets (Conf.
Rept., p. 45) and in March, 1984 approved the use of automated
dockets in the courts of appeals, district courts and bankruptcy
courts (Conf. Rept., p. 7). In each instance the approval was
subject to the condition that at the conclusion of the case a
printout of the entire docket record be made and bound in the
regular docket books of the court. Judge Hunter advised the
Conference that many courts now maintain their dockets on
microfiche, that the use of microfiche is feasible in terms of
available technology, ease of use, and records security, and is
more cost effective than the maintenance of paper docket
records. Furthermore, the National Archives and Records
Service has advised that it will accept microfiche copies of
docket sheets in closed cases in lieu of the original paper
copies as the permanent records of the court.

      Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference authorized the use of microfiche in lieu of paper
copies of closed docket sheets in those courts in which
microfiche technology is available.



                              9
                   FRIVOLOUS LITIGATION

       At its session in September, 1983 (Conf. Rept., p. 56) the
Conference approved the concept of the exhaustion of state
administrative remedies in cases brought under 28 U.S.C. 1983
and authorized the Committee to develop and submit
appropriate legislation for further consideration by the
Conference. Draft legislation prepared by the Committee was
withdrawn by the Chairman for further study.

                     JUDICIAL IMMUNITY

       The Conference in March, 1984 (Conf. Rept., p. 10)
requested the Committee to give further consideration to
various proposals to am end federal law to preclude suits for
damages or the imposition of attorneys' fees against judges or
judicial officers for actions arising out of the performance of
their official duties. Judge Hunter informed the Conference
that the issue of judicial immunity from civil actions against
federal and state judges and judicial officers continues to be of
sUbstantial concern. In August, 1984 the Conference of Chief
Justices of the States adopted a resolution calling upon the
Judicial Conference to initiate an early study of the exemption
of state judges and judicial officers, acting in their official
capacities, from the provisions of 42 U.S.C. 1988 and to support
efforts to amend the statute to exempt state judges and
judicial officers from the assessment of attorneys' fees.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference recommended that the last sentence of 42 U.S.C.
1988 be amended to read as follows:

     In any action or proceeding to enforce a provIsion of
     sections 1981, 1982, 1983, 1985, and 1986 of this title, title
     IX of Public Law 92-318, or title VI of the Civil Rights
     Act of 1964, the court, in its discretion, may allow the
     prevailing party, other than the United States, a
     reasonable attorney's fee as part of the costs; provided
     that no such fees shall be awarded against a judge or
     judicial officer who would be immune from actions for
     damages arising out of the same act or omission about
     which complaint is made.




                               10 

            REPORTS OF MATTERS HELD UNDER 

               SUBMISSION OR ADVISEMENT 


       At the Conference session in September, 1984 (Conf.
Rept., p. 51) Judge Hunter withdrew for further study a
proposal to revise the procedure for filing reports of cases held
under submission for more than 90 days in the courts of appeals
and cases and motions held under advisement more than 60
days in the district courts.         Judge Hunter advised the
Conference that in response to a questionnaire the chief judges
of the circuits were in agreement that the responsibility for
preparing the quarterly reports of cases held under submission
and advisement should be transferred from the Administrative
Office to the circuit executives.        It was felt that this
procedure would improve the timeliness of the reports and
would be more useful to the chief judges and the judicial
councils of the circuits. Furthermore, the majority of chief
judges favored the retention of the report on a quarterly basis
because it allows for more control of backlogs, more up-to­
date information, and more complete reporting. The chief
judges were unanimous in their view that both magistrates and
bankruptcy judges should also file reports similar to those
required of district judges.

     The Com mittee thereupon submitted the following
recommendations which were approved by the Conference:

     1. 	   That the circuit executives, rather than the
            Administrative Office, collect reports on cases and
            motions held under advisement for more than 60
            days by district judges and cases held under
            submission for more than 90 days in the courts of
            appeals, and prepare a quarterly report for
            submission to the circuit council, the chief judges of
            the courts involved, the district court executives,
            and the Administrative Office, beginning with the
            quarter ending September 30, 1985.

     2. 	   That the circuit executives collect reports from
            United States magistrates on cases and motions held
            under advisement for more than 60 days and prepare
            a separate quarterly report for submission to the




                               11 

            circuit council, chief judges of the district courts,
            district court executives, and the Administrative
            Office, beginning with the quarter ending
            September 30, 1985.

     3. 	   That the circuit executives collect reports from
            United States bankruptcy judges on cases and
            motions, including adversary proceedings, held
            under advisement for more than 60 days and prepare
            a separate quarterly report for submission to the
            circuit council, chief judges of the district courts,
            district court executives, and the Administrative
            Office, beginning with the quarter ending
            September 30, 1985.

     4. 	   That a task force of judges, circuit executives,
            district court clerks, bankruptcy clerks, and
            Administrative Office staff develop a standard
            format, reporting instructions, and forms for the
            reports, and a standard procedure for district court
            clerks and bankruptcy clerks to assist district
            judges, bankruptcy judges, and magistrates in
            preparing their reports.

     5. 	   That the Judicial Conference urge the judicial
            councils of the circuits and the district courts to
            use the report on matters held under advisement
            and submission in exercising their oversight
            responsibility    regarding  the   effective    and
            expeditious administration of justice within the
            circuits and districts.

       The status of a matter as "under advisement" shall begin
on the date on which the last act to be performed by any
attorney has been completed, or if a transcript has been
ordered, when the transcript is delivered, and the parties are
awaiting decision by the court.

       The Conference further requested the Committee to
consider combining the report on pending three year old civil
cases with the report on cases held under advisement in the
district courts.




                               12 

      AUTHORIZATION OF TEMPORARY PERSONNEL
                   FOR JUDGES

        At its session in September, 1982 (Conf. Rept., p. 77) the
Conference adopted a procedure regarding the temporary
appointment of personnel to assist judges in emergency
situations. The Committee advised the Conference of various
practical difficulties that have arisen in the implementation of
this procedure. Upon the recommendation of the Committee
the Conference rescinded its previous resolution and adopted
the following procedure:

     A circuit or district judge's declaration of a judicial
     emergency and request to employ additional temporary
     law clerks or secretaries or the extension thereof, and
     the chief judge's concurrence must be transmitted to the
     circuit judicial council or such other com mittee or judge
     as the circuit council may direct for approval or
     disapproval for whatever term the circuit council, or such
     other committee or judge as the circuit council may
     direct, deems appropriate and necessary. Similarly,
     declarations of emergencies by bankruptcy judges and
     magistrates and requests for additional temporary law
     clerks, legal assistants, or secretaries, must have the
     chief district judge's concurrence and approval of the
     circuit council or such other com mittee or judge as the
     circuit council may direct.

     The appointment of additional personal staff for circuit,
     district, and bankruptcy judges and magistrates on a
     temporary basis is to be discouraged and authorized only
     in those situations where there is a serious problem and
     the additional staff support is essential to the operations
     of the office and after consideration of solving the
     emergency by utilizing case management techniques,
     such as reallocation and reassignment of caseloads, on a
     temporary basis. Except as provided and justified above,
     temporary secretaries and law clerks should not be
     authorized for judges assigned to the Temporary
     Emergency Court of Appeals, the Judicial Panel on
     :\1ultidistrict Litigation, or for those who are serving on
     com mittees of the Judicial Conference.




                               13 

      Judge Godbold requested that the Court of Appeals of the
Eleventh Circuit be permitted to have three additional
positions in the Staff Attorney's Office on a temporary basis
until the additional judgeships recommended for the Court by
the Conference are created. The Conference authorized Judge
Godbold to seek an exception to the formula of one staff
attorney for each authorized judgeship position which has been
established by the Congress.

                   COURT INTERPRETERS

      Judge Hunter informed the Conference that problems
have arisen in recruiting and retaining court interpreters
because of the low salary. Using the Language Specialist
Series classification in the          Executive Branch the
Administrative Office had determined that the position of
court interpreter was equivalent to JSP-12.     Furthermore
career diplomatic interpreters at the State Department may
progress to level 14 of the General Schedule.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved the extension of the career ladder for the
position of court interpreter from grade JSP-ll to JSP-12 and
directed that the Judiciary Salary Plan be revised accordingly.

                        SECRETARIES

       The Federal Judicial Secretaries Association had
requested the Conference to consider raising the allowable
maximum grade for judges' secretaries from grade JSP-ll to
JSP-12 and raising assistant secretaries from JSP-9 to JSP-IO.
Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the Subcommittee
on Supporting Personnel had compared the salaries of judges'
secretaries with the salaries of the higher paid secretaries in
law firms in several major cities and, as of December, 1984,
found them to be comparable. Accordingly the Committee
recommended that the highest authorized grade for a secretary
to a judge remain at grade JSP-ll.

       The Committee did recommend, however, that the
maximum allowable grade for an assistant secretary to a
circuit or district judge be increased from grade JSP-9 to




                             14 

grade JSP-lO and that the maximum allowable grade for a
secretary to a United States magistrate be increased to grade
JSP-lO.    These recommendations were approved by the
Conference.

               DISTRICT COURT EXECUTIVES

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed a Federal Judicial Center report on
the district court executive pilot project and agreed with the
conclusion of the Judicial Center that statutory authority for
permanent positions should be sought.         The Committee
accordingly submitted draft legislation to provide for the
appointment of a district court executive by a district court
with eight or more authorized active judgeship positions. The
Conference approved the draft legislation and authorized its
submission to the Congress.

                    PRO SE LAW CLERKS

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that last Spring
the House Appropriations Committee denied the funding
requested for additional pro se law clerk positions for the
fiscal year 1985 and requested the Judicial Conference to
reevaluate the program.         A report prepared by the
Administrative Office concluded that the pro se law clerk
program has been successful and has greatly assisted the
participating courts in the management of their prisoner
cases. The pro se law clerk works for the entire court in a
specialized area of the law and does not duplicate the services
provided by judges' personal law clerks or magistrates' legal
assistants. Rather, the utilization of a pro se law clerk has
enabled judicial officers and their staffs to devote more time
to other matters.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference reaffirmed its approval of the pro se law clerk
program, authorized a request for funds to expand the program
to courts which are eligible to participate under existing
standards,   and authorized      the distribution of the
Administrative Office report to interested persons.




                             15 

                     COURT REPORTERS 


       Judge Hunter submitted to the Conference a proposal to
require that when a court establishes a regular tour of duty for
one or more of its court reporters, it must do so for all
reporters at the same geographic location. After discussion
the Conference recommitted the proposal for further study by
the special Ad Hoc Committee on Court Reporters.

              BANKRUPTCY CLERKS OFFICES

       The Conference at its session in March, 1981 (Conf.
Rept., p. 22) approved a staffing formula for bankrupty clerks
offices based on a comprehensive work measurement study
conducted by the Administrative Office. It was agreed at that
time that the formula would have to be reevaluated. Judge
Hunter informed the Conference that a reevaluation,
commenced in October, 1983, resulted in a new staffing
formula which had been reviewed by both the Committee on
Court    Administration and the        Committee on the
Administration of the Bankruptcy System.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved the staffing formula for bankruptcy
clerks offices and approved an amendment to the
appropriations request for the fiscal year 1986 to reflect the
additional personnel justified under the new formula.

      STAFFING FORMULA FOR PRETRIAL SERVICES

       Judge Hunter submitted to the Conference a proposed
formula for staffing the pretrial services function which had
been developed by the Administrative Office and reviewed by
the Committee on the Administration of the Probation System
as well as the Court Administration Committee. The new
formula, however, does not take into consideration the
potential impact of any additional work arising from the recent
amendments to the bail laws and other changes included in the
Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984.              Upon the
recommendation of the Committee, the Conference approved
the new staffing formula for the pretrial services function.




                              16 

                COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

      Judge Charles Clark, Chairman of the Committee on
the Budget, submitted the report of the Committee.
       APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1986

        Judge Clark informed the Conference that because the
national budget has become a focus of much debate the
Committee decided to review the appropriations request
approved by the Conference in September, 1984 (Con!. Rept.,
p. 60) to determine if any reduction could be made without
impairing the ability of the courts to deliver the level of
judicial services required by increased filings and new
legislation. The review confirmed that all supporting personnel
included in the revised budget for 1986 are required, based on
workload projections and the established staffing formulas.
Since, however, the total projected increase in filings probably
will not materialize until the end of the year, the Committee
felt that the courts should be able to phase in the additional
personnel needed rather than attempting to bring them in as
promptly as possible. By following this plan the 1986 funding
request could be reduced by the difference in the cost of the
new positions for the full fiscal year and the cost for a partial
year.

       The Conference thereupon authorized the Budget
Committee to make a concession which will reduce the
requested level of funding for the fiscal year 1986 by
$12,150,000.

               JUDICIAL ETHICS COMMITTEE

       The written report of the Judicial Ethics Committee,
chaired by Judge Edward A. Tamm, was received by the
Conference.       The report indicated that the Committee
received 1,888 financial disclosure reports for the calendar
year 1983 and had addressed 558 letters of inquiry to judicial
officers and employees concerning omissions or commissions in
their 1983 filings.




                              17 

     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

       The written report of the Advisory Committee on Codes
of Conduct, under the chairmanship of Judge Howard T.
Markey, indicated that since its last report the Committee had
received 18 inquiries and had issued 17 advisory responses. The
Chairman also responded to 6 telephone inquiries that did not
require reference to the Committee.

       COMMITTEE ON INTER CIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

      The written report of the Com mi ttee on Intercircui t
Assignments, submitted by the Chairman, Judge Thomas A.
Flannery, was received by the Conference.

       The report indicated that during the period August 15,
1984 through February 1, 1985, the Committee had
recom mended 48 intercircuit assignm ents to be undertaken by
42 judges. Of this number, 13 were senior circuit judges, 5
were active circuit judges, 17 were senior district judges, 3
were active district judges, 2 were senior judges of the Court
of International Trade and 2 were active judges of the Court of
International Trade.

        Of the 28 judges assigned to serve in the United States
courts of appeals, 13 were senior circuit judges, 5 were active
circuit judges, 9 were senior district judges and I judge was an
active judge of the Court of International Trade. Ten senior
district judges, 3 active district judges, 2 senior judges of the
Court of International Trade and I active judge of the Court of
International Trade undertook 16 assignments to the United
States district courts.

      GUIDELINES FOR INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

       The Committee reported the following guidelines for
intercircuit assignments which were approved by the Chief
Justice in November, 1984:

     1. 	   Assignment of United States judges from their
            statutory base is on the basis of the need of the
            receiving court.    This standard will govern all
            intercircuit assignments for both active and senior
            judges. The chief of the receiving circuit must
            execute a certificate of need.


                              18
2. 	    A circuit which "lends" active judges on intercircuit
        assignments may not lIborrowl! judges from another
        circuit (except for emergencies).

3. 	    A circuit which "borrowsll active judges by
        intercircuit assignment may not 1I1endll active judges
        for assignment to another circuit.

4. 	    The "lender-borrower" rule may be relaxed with
        respect to senior judges, circuit or district, provided
        the circuit is not "borrowing" and provided the chief
        judge of the circuit approves.

5. 	    When active judges are borrowed or lent for a
        particular case or cases, for example because of
        disqualification of judges in the borrowing circuit to
        hear a case or cases, the "len der-borrower ll rule will
        not apply.

6. 	    The 750-mile travel limitation does not apply to
        senior judges who are assigned to work on circuit
        courts.

7. 	    Except to meet an emergency, a judge assigned to
        work on the general calendar of a district court
        must serve at least two weeks if the travel is less
        than 750 miles and for at least one month if the
        travel exceeds 750 miles.

8. 	    The "borrower-lender" rules does not apply to the
        United States Court of Appeals for the Federal
        Circuit, and to the Court of International Trade.

9. 	    On assignments to either a circuit or district court,
        judges may take either a law clerk or a secretary;
        reimbursement for additional supporting personnel
        is not permitted. The court to which a judge is
        assigned is expected to furnish any additional
        supporting personnel needed.

10. 	   In the future no intercircuit assignment of judges
        will be approved to take effect more than eight
        months after the date of the Certificate of Need.




                            19
  COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE OF PROCEDURE 


     Judge Edward T. Gignoux, Chairman of the Standing
Com mittee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, presented the
Committee's report.

                    BANKRUPTCY RULES

       The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed
amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 5002 and 5004 together with
Committee Notes explaining their purpose and intent and a
separate report from the Chairman of the Advisory Committee
summarizing the Advisory Committee's work. The Committee
recommended that these proposed amendments be approved by
the Conference and transmitted to the Supreme Court for its
consideration with a recommendation that they be approved by
the Court and transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law.
This recommendation was approved by the Conference.

         COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF
               THE PROBATION SYSTEM ,

      Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat, Chairman of the Committee on
the Administration of the Probation System, presented the
Com mi ttee's report.

                  SENTENCING INSTITUTES

       The Conference in September, 1984 (Cone. Rept., p. 67)
approved preliminary plans for a Joint Institute on Sentencing
for the judges of the Firth and Seventh Circuits to be held at
the Federal Correctional Institution       at Butner, North
Carolina, April 1-3, 1985. The Committee submitted the final
agenda for the sentencing institute which the Conference
approved.

       Judge Tjoflat informed the Conference that planning is
continuing for an Institute on Sentencing for the judges of the
Ninth Circuit to be held at the Federal Correctional Institution
in Phoenix, Arizona in the Spring of 1986. The Committee is
also formulating plans for a Joint Institute on Sentencing for
the judges of the Second and Sixth Circuits to be held at the
Federal Correctional Institution in Butner, North Carolina,
March 17-19, 1986. The Committee will submit the final plans
for these institutes to the Conference at its next session.


                              20
      COMPREHENSIVE CRIME CONTROL ACT OF 1984

       Judge Tjoflat called attention to a series of suggested
technical amendments to the Comprehensive Crime Control
Act of 1984 and other proposed amendments to the Act,
including a proposal to authorize senior judges to serve on the
Sentencing Commission and the restoration of the authority of
the Director of the Administrative Office to contract for drug
aftercare services.

       The Conference authorized the Probation Committee to
work with the Administrative Office and the Federal Judicial
Center in drafting technical and conforming amendments to
improve the operation of the Comprehensive Crime Control
Act of 1984.

                    PRETRIAL SERVICES

       Judge Clark called attention to a statement prepared by
Judge Tjoflat for presentation at hearings originally scheduled
before the Subcommittee on Crime of the Judiciary
Committee of the House of Representatives which were
subsequently cancelled. Judge Clark emphasized that the
statement concisely summarized the previously expressed
views of the Conference that the conduct of pretrial services
in probation offices in many courts is more economical than
the creation of separate pretrial services agencies. After
discussion, the Conference endorsed the views set forth in
Judge Tjoflat's statement.

      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
               BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

       Judge Robert E. DeMascio, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System, presented the
Committee's report.

          REFERENCES TO BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

       Judge DeMascio informed the Conference that the draft
guidelines for the reference of petitions and proceedings to
bankruptcy judges, set out in the Committee's report, require
further review. He therefore asked that the Committee be




                             21
authorized to submit the guidelines to the Executive
Committee of the Conference at a later date for its
consideration. The Conference approved.

               RECALL TO SERVICE OF RETIRED
                   BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

       Section 155(b) of Title 28, United States Code, provides
that a retired bankruptcy judge, upon consent, may be recalled
to service in any judicial district by the judicial council of the
circuit in which the district is located. When recalled the
bankruptcy judge may receive a salary for such service in
accordance with "regulations to be promulgated by the Judicial
Conference," subject to the statutory restrictions on the
aggregate compensation of reemployed annuitants.

       The Committee submitted proposed regulations in
accordance with 28 U.S.C. 155(b) which would provide that a
retired bankruptcy judge recalled to service will receive the
salary of an active bankruptcy judge on a "when actually
employed" basis, may employ the services of a secretary or law
clerk only with the approval of the circuit council, and will be
subject to the Code of Judicial Conduct as a retired judge.
The proposed regulations also would provide that the recall of
a retired bankruptcy judge for service in a district outside the
bankruptcy judge's own circuit must be approved by the
Bankruptcy Committee. Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference adopted the regulations.

               SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT OF
                    BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

       Judge DeMascio informed the Conference that the
Executive Committee had approved the regulations for the
selection and appointm ent of bankruptcy judges required by
section 120(b) of the Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal
Judgeship Act of 1984 as authorized by the Conference at its
session in September, 1984 (Conf. Rept., p. 70).

       Upon     the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference      approved the following changes in these
regulations:




                               22 

     1. Amended section 1.0I(C) to read as follows:

          At the time of the initial appointment they must
          not be related by blood or marriage to a judge of
          the appointing court of appeals or judicial council of
          that circuit, or to a judge of the district court to be
          served, within the degrees specified in 28 U.S.C.
          458, at the time of the initial appointment.

     2. Amended section 2.03 to read as follows:

           The public notice shall be filed and posted in the
           offices of the clerk of the court of appeals, the
           clerk of the district court, and the bankruptcy
           clerk, a copy shall be provided to the Director of
           the Administrative Office at the time an
           appointment is made.

     3. Amended section 4.03 to read as follows:

          The name of the person selected by the court of
          appeals for appointment shall be submitted to the
          Director of the Administrative Office, who shall
          request background reports by the Federal Bureau
          of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service.
          However, if the nominee has been the subject of
          such reports prior to appointment to the present
          position, the requirement for further background
          reports may be waived on request by the court of
          appeals.
    ADJUSTMENTS IN STATUTORY DOLLAR AMOUNTS

        The Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal Judgeship Act
of 1984, 11 U.S.C. 104, requires the Judicial Conference to
transmit to the Congress and to the President before May 1,
1985 and every six years thereafter its "recommendation for
the uniform percentage adjustment of each dollar amount in
[Title 111 and in section 1930 of Title 28." The dollar amounts
referred to pertain to eligibility for Chapter 13 trustee
compensation, priority of wage claims, and the limits on
property exemptions, while 28 U.S.C. 1930 sets forth the fees
to be charged by the clerk for the filing of a bankruptcy
petition.



                             23
       In light of the recent Congressional action setting these
dollars amounts the Committee recommended that the
Conference recommend to the Congress and to the President
that no uniform percentage adjustment be made at this time in
the dollar amounts in Title 11 and in 28 U.S.C. 1930.


         ADDITIONAL BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

       Judge DeMascio stated that the Committee will be
developing standards to be applied in reviewing requests for
the creation of new bankruptcy judgeship positions.
Recommendations for new judgeships will then be considered in
the light of these standards.

      COMMITTEB ON THB ADMINISTRATION OF THB
           FBDBRAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

      Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jr., Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Federal Magistrates System,
presented the Committee's report.

          SALARIES OF PART-TIME MAGISTRATES

       The government-wide comparability, or cost-of-living,
salary adjustments are not granted to part-time magistrates as
they are to bankruptcy judges by operation of law and to fu11­
time magistrates by resolution of the Conference, but require
affirmative Conference action. Upon the recommendation of
the    Committee,     the   Conference granted      part-time
magistrates, including those in combination positions who
perform     part-time     magistrate   duties   for   specific
compensation, the 3.5 percent increase in salary that was
granted to other federal employees, retroactive to the
beginning of the first pay period commencing on or after
January 1, 1985.

      The new salary levels authorized                   for   part-time
magistrate positions are as follows:

            Levell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .   $ 1,007 

            Level 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .     2,015 

            Level 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .     3,022 

            Level 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .     4,030 

            Level 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .     5,037 



                                  24
              Level 	 6    ................                7,164 

              Level 7 ••••••••••••••••                     9,179
              Level 8 .................                   11,195
              Level 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13,210
              Level 10     · ...............              15,225 

              Level 11     · ..............               17,352 

              Level 12     · ..............               20,039 

              Level 13     · ..............               22,724 

              Level 14     · ..............               25,859 

                           ·
              Level 15 ...............                    29,946 

              Level 16     · ..............               34,200 



             CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

      After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the
circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
magistrate positions.     Unless otherwise indicated, these
changes are to become effective when appropriated funds are
available. The salaries of full-time magistrate positions are to
be determined in accordance with the salary plan previously
adopted by the Conference.         The salaries for part-time
magistrate positions include the comparability adjustments
authorized by the Conference at this session.

                             FIRST CIRCUIT

Maine:
     (1) 	    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
              position at Bangor from $2,920 per annum to
              $34,200 per annum.

                             THIRD CIRCUIT

New Jersey:

     (1) 	    Authorized a second full-time magistrate position
              at Trenton.




                                      25
     (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Asbury Park for an additional four-year term at
             the currently authorized salary of $20,039 per
             annum.

                      FOURTH CIRCUIT

Maryland:

     (1) 	   Authorized    the   part-time     magistrate     at
             Hagerstown to exercise jurisdiction in          the
             adjoining Northern District of West Virginia.

North Carolina, Western:

     (1) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
             Charlotte to a full-time magistrate position.

West Virginia, Northern:

     (1) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Morgantown, Fairmont or Clarksburg
             from $2,920 per annum to $22,724 per annum.

                        FIFTH CIRCUIT

Louisiana, Western:

     (1) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
             Lake Charles to a full-time magistrate position.

     (2) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Lake Charles from $21,956 per annum
             to $29,946 per annum, until conversion of the
             position to full-time status.

Texas, Southern:

     (1) 	   Redesignated the official location of one of the
             full-time magistrate positions at Brownsville as
             Brownsville or McAllen.




                              26 

      (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              McAllen or Edinburg for an additional four-year
              term and increased the salary from $28,933 per
              annum to $34,200 per annum.

      (3) 	   Redesignated the official location of the part-time
              magistrate position at McAllen or Edinburg as
              McAllen or Brownsville.


Texas, Western:

      (1) 	   Increased the salary of the full-time magistrate
              position at Del Rio (or Eagle Pass) from 69 percent
              of the maximum salary of a full-time magistrate
              to the maximum salary of a full-time magistrate.

                         SIXTH CIRCUIT

Michigan, Western:

     (1) 	    Converted the part-time magistrate position at
              Kalamazoo to a full-time magistrate position.

Tennessee, Eastern:

     (1) 	    Converted the part-time magistrate position at
              Greeneville to a full-time magistrate position.

                       SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Illinois, Northern:

     (1) 	    Authorized a fifth and a sixth full-time magistrate
              position at Chicago.

                        EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Arkansas, Western:

     (1) 	    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
              position at Hot Springs from $6,922 per annum to
              $13,210 per annum.




                               27
Minnesota:

     (1) 	   Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at
             Minneapolis or St. Paul at a salary level of $34,200
             per annum.

Missouri, Eastern:

     (l) 	   Authorized a fourth full-time magistrate position
             at St. Louis.

                        NINTH CIRCUIT

California, Eastern:

     (l) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
             Sacramento to a full-time magistrate position.

Hawaii:

     (1) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
             Honolulu to a full-time magistrate position.

Montana:
     (1) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Helena from $1,947 per annum to
             $4,030 per annum.

                       TENTH CIRCUIT

Wyoming:

     (1) 	   Increased the salary of the full-time magistrate
             position at Yellowstone National Park from 52
             percent of the maximum salary of a full-time
             magistrate, to 55 percent of the maximum salary
             of a full-time magistrate.




                              28 

                     ELEVENTH CIRCUIT 


Georgia, Northern:

     (1) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Rome from $28,933 per annum to
             $34,200 per annum.

Georgia, Southern:

     (1) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Waycross or Brunswick from $6,922 per
             annum to $20,039 per annum.

              COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT THE 

                 CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT 


      Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the Committee
to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented the report of
the Committee.

              APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

       Judge MacBride submitted to the Conference a report
on appointments and payments under the Criminal Justice Act
for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1984. The report
indicated that Congress appropriated $41,465,000 for "Defender
Services" for the fiscal year 1984. The current estimate of
appropriations expenditures for the fiscal year 1984 is
approximately $40,665,000, leaving an estimated balance of
$800,000 to be carried forward into the fiscal year 1985.

        During the year approximately 52,300 persons were
represented under the Criminal Justice Act, compared to
49,943 persons represented during the fiscal year 1983, an
increase of 4.7 percent. Of these persons, Federal Public and
Community Defender Organizations represented 27,350 or 52.3
percent of the total representations, compared to 52.5 percent
in the fiscal year 1983 and 49.0 percent in the fiscal year 1982.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference authorized the Director of the Administrative
Office to transmit the report to all chief judges, to all federal
defender organizations, and to others who may request copies.



                              29
                   GRANT REQUESTS­
           COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

       Judge MacBride informed the Conference that the New
York Legal Aid Society, Federal Defender Services Unit, had
requested supplemental funding for the fiscal years 1985 and
1986 in the amounts of $38,398 and $54,743, respectively.
Upon the recommendation of the Committee the Conference
approved this request.
                   BUDGET REQUESTS­
               FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS

       The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved supplemental funding requests for
Federal Public Defender offices for the fiscal years 1985 and
1986 as follows:

                             Fiscal Year       Fiscal Year
District                       1985              1986
California, Central          $                 $ 152,482
Florida, Southern            $ 304,121         $ 267,846
Hawaii                       $ 294,475         $


           COMPUTER ASSISTED LEGAL RESEARCH

       Judge MacBride stated that the Committee had
reviewed a request to provide federal defender organizations
with in-office capability for accessing computer assisted legal
research services. The Committee concluded that providing
federal defenders with access would eliminate the concern
expressed by some judges that federal defenders' use of their
services creates the appearance of potential conflicts of
interest; that the prosecution has been provided with liberal
access to a variety of such services, including a proprietary
system which was custom-designed for the Department of
Justice; and that for many defenders existing arrangements for
the use of the court's facilities are inefficient, ineffective or
nonexistent. The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, authorized the expenditure of up to $250,000 in




                              30
the fiscal year 1986 to provide independent access to computer
assisted legal research services by federal defender
organizations in those situations in which existing access is
inefficient, ineffective, or nonexistent.

               COMPENSATION OF COUNSEL

       The Director of the Administrative Office is required by
Conference resolution to prepare an annual report on
compensation paid to attorneys appointed under the Criminal
Justice Act which exceeds $12,000 during the reporting year.
In view of the recent statute doubling the compensation rates
and maximum amounts payable the Conference, upon the
recommendation of the Committee, modified the reporting
requirement to include only those attorneys appointed under
the Criminal Justice Act who receive in excess of $24,000
during the reporting year.

                         GUIDELINES

      The Committee submitted the following amendments to
the Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice
Act which were approved by the Conference:

     1. Amendments to Chapter 2 and a new Appendix H
     relating to the appointment of counsel for persons whose
     mental condition is the subject of a hearing pursuant to 18
     U.S.C. Chapter 313 and to the provision of the Bail
     Reform Act of 1984 which requires that counsel be
     appointed to provide representation at detention hearings
     for persons arrested as material witnesses.

     2. An amendment to paragraphs 2.03 and 2.04 relating to
     the determination of financial eligibility and ability to
     make reimbursement under the Criminal Justice Act.

     3. An amendment to paragraph 2.22(0) to provide that,
     as a matter of policy, reimbursement of Criminal Justice
     Act attorneys' fees should not be made a condition of
     probation.

     4.   An amendment to paragraph 2.26 relating to
     compensation of appointed counsel for travel time.




                             31
      5.   An amendment to paragraph 4.02(A) relating to
      reappointment of federal public defenders.

        A proposed amendment to paragraph 3.01 to reflect the
availability of investigative, expert, and other services for £!:..2.
se litigants was returned to the Committee for further study.
The Committe was also asked to give further consideration to
clarifying paragraph 2.26, relating to compensation for travel
time.

           COMMITI'EE ON THE ADMINISTRATION 

                OF THE CRIMINAL LAW 


      Judge William J. Nealon, Jr., a member of the
Committee on the Administration of the Criminal Law,
presented the Com mittee's report in the absence of the
Committee Chairman, Judge John D. Butzner, Jr.

                  RACKETEERING ACTIVITIES

       Prior to the enactment of the Victim and Witness
Protection Act of 1982, Public Law 97-291, tampering with a
witness was covered in 18 U.S.C. 1503 which, in turn, was a
predicate offense included in the definition of "racketeering
activity" in 18 U.S.C. 1961 for the purposes of the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. Witness tampering
was deleted from 18 U.S.C. 1503 by Public Law 97-291. The
Committee was advised that this deletion was inadvertent.
The Conference, upon the recommendation of the Committee,
voted to recommend an amendment to 18 U.S.C. 1961(1) that
would define racketeering offenses as including any act
indictable under 18 U.S.C. 1512 and 1513.

           PROTECTION OF JUDICIAL PERSONNEL

       At its sessions in September, 1980 (Conf. Rept., p. 105)
and September, 1981 (Conf. Rept., p. 94) the Conference
recommended to Congress legislation to make it a crime for a
person to threaten with bodily harm or seek to intimidate
officers and employees of the United States courts. This
recommendation was made in the light of threats of harm to a
secretary of a judge in California and the brief kidnapping of
two law clerks in the Northern District of Illinois.




                                32
       Judge Nealon informed the Conference that the
Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984, Chapter X, Part K,
adds to the list of federal officers and employees protected by
18 U.S.C. 1114 "any other officer, agency, or employee of the
United States designated for coverage under regulations issued
by the Attorney General.!! The Committee recommended that
the Conference request the Attorney General to include in the
regulations issued pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1114 "any officer or
employee of the United States courts and any member of the
staff of any United States judge or magistrate." This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.

         AD HOC COMMITTEE ON THE LAW CLERK
                 SELECTION PROCESS

       ,Judge Carl McGowan, Chairman of the Ad 'Hoc
Committee on the Law Clerk Selection Process, submitted to
the Conference a report of a survey conducted by the Federal
Judicial Center on law clerk selection. The report indicated
that the judges responding to a questionnaire were almost
evenly divided on the question of whether there should be a
Judicial Conference policy on the timing of steps in the law
clerk selection process. After full discussion the Conference
decided not to extend the two year experiment calling upon
judges to refrain from considering applications for law clerk
positions until July 15 of the year before the year of
graduation. The Conference expressed its appreciation to the
Chairman and the Committee for the work that had been done
and directed that the Com mittee be discharged.
   AD HOC COMMITTEE ON AMERICAN INNS OF COURT

    Judge Aldon J. Anderson, Chairman of the Ad Hoc
Committee on American Inns of Court, presented the
Committee's report.

         Judge Anderson informed the Conference that the Ad
Hoc Committee has actively promoted the creation of new Inns
of Court. There are currently twelve formally chartered Inns
operating in Provo, Utan; Salt Lake City, Utah; Oxford,
1\IIississippi; Honolulu,  Hawaii; Brooklyn, New York;
Washington, D.C.; San Francisco, California; Los Angeles,
California; San Diego, California; Cincinnati, Ohio; Detroit,




                             33
Michigan; and Santa Clara, California. Other Inns are in the
planning stages in Chicago, Illinois; Jacksonville, Florida;
Houston, Texas; Kansas City, Missouri; Phoenix, Arizona; and
Seattle, Washington.

       Judge Anderson further stated that the Committee had
drafted various documents for the creation of an American
Inns of Court Foundation and that the application for a
corporate charter would be filed this spring. The documents
include Articles of Incorporation for an American Inns of Court
Foundation, By-Laws of the Foundation, a Model Charter for
an individual Inn of Court, and an implementation plan to bring
the national organization into existence.

        The Conference thereupon accepted and approved the
report of        the   Ad     Hoc Committee including its
recom mendations f or the establishm ent of a national
organization and authorized the continued operation of the Ad
Hoc Committee with such reorganization as will enable it to
fulfill its assigned objectives.

                        RESOLUTION

       The Conference, noting the retirement of William E.
Foley as Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, adopted the following resolution:

     The Judicial Conference of the United States
     wishes to express to William E. Foley, on the
     occasion of his retirement as Director of the
     Administrative Office of the United States
     Courts, its sincere appreciation for more than 20
     years of dedicated service to the Federal
     Judiciary. Bill Foley came to the Judiciary in
     1964 through appointment by the Supreme Court
     of the United States as the Deputy Director of
     the Administrative Office after a long career in
     the Department of Justice. In 1977 he succeeded
     to the position of Director. During his tenure
     Bill gained the respect and admiration not only of
     the members of this Conference, but also of
     Federal judges throughout the nation. He has
     been widely known for his understanding of the
     needs of the courts and for the faithful,
     competent discharge of the duties of his office


                             34
     during a period of unprecedented expansion in the
     workload of the Federal courts.          We, the
     members of the Conference, extend to him our
     thanks and best wishes for his generosity and
     friendship and wish him many years of health and
     happiness in his well-earned retirement.

                         ELECTIONS

       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 621(a)(2), elected
Circuit Judge Arlin M. Adams to membership on the Board of
the Federal Judicial Center for a term of four years
succeeding Circuit Judge Cornelia G. Kennedy whose term
expires on March 28, 1985.

       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 332(f), elected
Circuit Judge Jack R. Miller to membership on the Board of
Certification for Circuit Executives for a term of three years
succeeding Circuit Judge Howard T. Markey whose term
expires on July 1, 1985.

PRETERMISSION OF TERMS OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS

       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the
pretermission of the terms of court of the United States Court
of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit at Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
and the terms of court of the United States Court of Appeals
for the Fourth Circuit at Asheville, North Carolina during the
calendar year 1985.

               RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

       The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for
legislative or administration action.




                                       Warren E. Burger

                                       Chief Justice
July 8, 1985                           of the United States




                             35
                                                                                                  INDEX 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Page

Additional Bankruptcy Judgeships ••••••••...••••••••.••••                                                                                                                                                                                 24
Administrative Office, U. S. Courts
   JUdicial Business of the Courts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                                                                                                                         4
   Pro Se Law Clerks; Report on • . • • . • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •                                                                                                                                                        15
   Report 0 f the Direc tor. • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • • • . • . • • • •                                                                                                                                                  4
   Retirement of the Director; Resolution on . • . . • . • • . . • . . .                                                                                                                                                                 34
Appointments and Payments, Criminal Justice Act. . . • . . . • • •                                                                                                                                                                       29 

Appropriations (see Budget) 

Automation: 

   Computer Assisted Legal Research .•••••.....•..•••••.                                                                                                                                                                                  30
    Computerized Dockets .....                                                                         II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II     9
    Five-year plan                         II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   •    II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II     6
    Training      II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II II     II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II     7
Bankruptcy Rules                           II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II    20
   Distribution of Local .•.••.•..•.•...•••••........••••                                                                                                                                                                                  9

Bankruptcy System:
   Additional Bankruptcy Judgeships •........•..•.....•..                                                                                                                                                                                 24
   Committee on; Report of. . • . • • • • • • • . . . . . • • • • • • • . . • . •.                                                                                                                                                        21
   Dollar Amounts; Aqjustments to Statutory.... • •. . .. • • • .                                                                                                                                                                         23
   References to Bankruptcy Judges. • • . . • . • . • . • . • . • • . . . • •                                                                                                                                                             21
   Retired Bankruptcy Judges; Recall to Service of. . . . . • • .•                                                                                                                                                                        22
   Selection and Appointment of Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • . . .                                                                                                                                                                          22
Boards:
   Certification of Circuit Executives; Election to ••.••••••                                                                                                                                                                            35
   Federal Judicial Center; Election to •. . • . • • • • • • . . • . • . • •                                                                                                                                                             35
Budget:
   Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1986 .•••.••...•.•.•••..                                                                                                                                                                                17
      Amendment to                                   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II    16
     Committee on; Report of.                                                                II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II   II.       II   •••            II   II   II...                17
     Reduction in Funding                                                II   II   II   II   •    II   •    II   II   •    II   II   ••••                II   ••        II   II   II   •    II   II   •    II   •    II   II   II   •     17
Budget Requests - Federal Public Defenders. . . • • • • • • . . . . . . 30
Circuit Executives:
   Certification Board; Election to. . • • • • • . • . • • . . . • . • • • • .• 35
   Matters under submission or advisement; Reports on                           11
Clerks of Courts:
   Bankruptcy; Staffing formula for... ••• . . • • . • . •• •• • .. . • 16
Codes of Conduct:
   Advisory Committee on; Report of •.•..•••••••.•....•. 18
Community Defender Organizations - Grant Requests. • . • . .• 30
Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 ••••••••.••• 16,21,33
Computer Assisted Legal Research ••••••••.••...•..••.••• 30
Computerized Dockets                                           II   •    II   •    II   II   II   •    II   •    II   •••            II   •••            II   II   •    II   ••        II   •••            II   II   II   II   II   •      9


                                                                                                  37
Court Administration:
   Automation .............••.........................                                                              6
  Bankruptcy Clerks Offices. . • • . • • • • • • • • . . • • • . . • • • . . . • •                                 16
   Committee on; Report of... .. . . . •• •• • . • •. • ••• ••• •••• •                                              6
      Computerized Dockets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . • .                           9
     Court futerpreters ...•..•.•.•..•..••••...•.••••••.•••                                                        14
     Court Reporters .........................................                                                     16
     District Court Executives.. . . • . . . • . . . ••• •• •• ••••• •• ••                                         15
     Frivolous Litigation •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                        10
     Judicial Immunity.. .. . .. . .. . . .... .. . . . . . . ..•.. . .. . . . .                                   10
     Matters under Subm ission or Advisement; Report of. • • • • •                                                 11
     Miscellaneous Fee Schedules. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • •                                 8
     Pro Se Law Clerks.. .. • . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. • . .. . • .. .. .. . . . .. ..    15
     Secretaries.. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. .      14
     Staffing Formula for Pretrial Services ...•...•.........                                                      16
     Temporary Personnel for Judges; Authorization of • • • • • • •                                                13
     Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges ....•••••••••                                                       8
Court Interpreters.. .. .. .. .. .. • .. .. • • .. • .. • .. • • • • .. • .. .. .. • • .. .. • • .. • • . • .. •   14
Court Reporters •••••...•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                            16
Courts of Appeals:
   Eleventh Circuit; Staff Attorneys •••.•••••••••••••••••                                                         14
   Pre term iss ion of Terms ••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                 35
Criminal Justice Act:
   Appointments and Payments. . • • . •• • • • • • • . • . • • • ••••• . .                                         29
   Budget Requests - Federal Public Defenders............                                                          30
   Committee on; Report of.............................                                                            29
   Com munity Defender Organizations - Grant Requests. • • •                                                       30
   Compensation of Counsel. . . . . • . • . • • . . . • . . . • •. •. •. • . . .                                   31
   Computer Assisted Legal Research ••••••••••••••••..••                                                           30
   Guidelines.. .. . . . . . . . .. . . . • . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . .. . .. . ..        31
Criminal Law:
   Committee on; Report of. • . . . . . • • • . . • . . .• . • • • • • . • . . . •                                 32
   Protection of Judicial Personnel. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . . . • •                                   32
   Racketerring Activities.. . . . . • •• • •• •• •• •• ••• •• • • . • •• •                                        32
District Court Executives •.•••••• . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . . •                                   15
Dockets; Computerized ...........................................                                                   9
Drug Aftercare Program .•••.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                            21
Elections:
   Board of Certification •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                          35
   Board of the Federal Judicial Center. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                       35
Ethics (see Judicial Ethics)
Excess Payments under the Criminal Justice Act •••••••••••                                                         31
Executive Committee Actions:
   Bankruptcy Judges:
      References to..... . .. . . . .. ... .. . . ... ........ ......                                              21
      Selection and Appointment •••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                          22

                                                         38
Federal Judicial Center:
   District court executives; Report on •••.•••••••                                                                     0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   15
     Board; Election to . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . .. . . . .                                                     35
Federal Public Defenders:
     Budget Requests ..............................................                                                                                     30 

   Computer Assisted Legal Research •                                       0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   30
Fee Schedule; Misce llaneous • • • • • . • . • . • . • . . . . . • • • • • • • • • • •                                                                   8
Financial Disclosure (see Judicial Ethics)
Five-year Plan for Automation. • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                                       6
Foley, William Eo; Resolution on the retirement of • o. •••••                                                           0                               34
Frivolous Litigation ............................................                                                                                       10 

Grant Requests - Community Defender Organizations. . •• . ••                                                                                            30
Guidelines:
    Criminal Justice Act                    0...............................                                                                            31 

    Intercircuit Assignments •••.••••••••••••••••••••••• • •                                                                                            18
Immunity; Judicial.. ..... . . . . ... ..... ... .. .. ..•• ... .• ... .• ... . . .                                                                     10
Inns of Court:
    Ad Hoc Committee on; Report of. . • . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                                           33
Intercircuit Assignments:
     Com mittee on; Report of. . .. . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. .. . .                                                            18
     Guidelines for ..................................................                                                                                  18 

Interpreters. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . .                                                   14
Judges:
   Bankruptcy:
         Additional. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . .. . .. . .. . .. . . . . . . . . ..                                              24
       Appointment and Selection of •••••••.••.•••••••••••                                                        22                                0


       Recall to Serv ice 0 f Retired ..                        0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   • 22•   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •


       Re f erences to.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. • • • .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . • . . . . • • . . . • . • • 2 I
     Matters under Submission or Advisement; Report on                                                            11                0....
     Personnel; Authorization of Temporary. .. . • .• . . • •• • ••• • 13
     Senior:
       Sentencing Commission ••••.••.•••.•••.•..••••••••• 21
        Social Security. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                           5
   Travel Regulations for •••                       0   •••••••• 0              ••• 0           ••••••• 0                       •   •   •   •   •   •    8
Judicial Branch:
   Committee on; Report of.............................                                                                                                  5
     Judicial Salaries ......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                   6
     Social Security. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                          5
judicial Business of the Courts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                                     4
Judicial Conference of the U.S.:
     Callof .............................................                                                                                                I
     Release of Action. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                             35




                                                        39 

Judicial Councils:
   Authorization of Temporary Personnel. • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                       13
    Matters under Submission or Advisement. • • . • . . •• . • •• • •                                          12
   Recall 0 f Retired Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . • •                                   22
JUdicial Ethics:
   Committee on; Report of....................... ••••••                                                       17
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation:
   Personnel; Temporary. • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                         13
   Report 0 f "......................... """. """"""""""""                                                      5
Judiciary Salary Plan """""""""""""".,,"""""""""""""""""""                                                     14
Jury Instructions; Distribution of Pattern. • • • • • • • • . • . • . • . • •                                   9
Justices; Travel Regulations for. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                             8
Law Clerks:
    Pro se """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""                                                       15
   Selection Process; Ad Hoc Committee on...............                                                       33
   Temporary; Authorization of.. • • •••••••••••••••••••• • •                                                  13
Legisla tion:
   District Court Executives.. • .• • • •••• • • • • .. •••• .• • • • • •                                      15
   Judicial Immunity" """"" """"""""""""""" """""""" """"""                                                    10
   Protection of JUdicial Personnel. •• • . • • . • . . • . . • . . . • • •• .                                 32
   Racketeering Activities. . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • .•                           32
Magistrates:
   Co m mi ttee on; Report 0 f. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        24
   Magistrates Positions; Changes in •••••••••••••••••••••                                                     25
   Matters under Submission or Advisement; Report of. • • • • •                                                11
   Personnel, Authorization of Temporary. • • • • . • • • • • . • • • • •                                      13
   Salaries of Part-time ••••••••.•••.••••••••.•••.••••••                                                      24
    Secretaries to "".""""""""",, . ,,"""""""""""""""""""""""                                                  15
   Travel Regulations for. • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • . • •                          8
Matters under Submission or Advisement; Report of.. . • . . • . •                                              11
Multidistrict Litigation:
   Judicial Panel on; Report of . . • • • • •• • • •• • •. . . •• • ••• • • •                                   5
National Archives and Records Service. • •••••••••• • • ••• •••                                                 9
Personnel; Temporary """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""                                                        13
Pretermission of Terms, Courts of Appeals. •• •• •• •• • •• •• ••                                              91
Pretrial Services" """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""                                                      21
Probation System:
   Committee on; Report of ••..•.••••                       00   •• 0    o.
                                                                        ••••   0.0     00.0.                   20
     Sentencing Institutes """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""".                                                    20
Protection of JUdicial Personnel. •                 0   ••••••••••••••••••••••                         0       32
Quadrennial Commission on Executive, Legislative
       and Judicial Salaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       6
Racketeering Activities •••••...                0   0   ••••••••    0   •••••••• 0     0   •   •   •   •       32
Release of Conference Action                .0 • • • • • • • • • • 0 . 0 0 . . . . . . . . . . .           
   35

                                            40
     Rules:
         Bankruptcy Rules ........•..................•.......                                          20 

       Local; Free distribution of. • • . • • . . . • • • . • • • . . • . • . . • . . • •               8

       Practice and Procedure; Committee on, Report of •. • . • ••                                     20 

    Salaries: 

        Magistrates; Part-time.. •. . ••• •• •• . . .•••••• • . . .• • . •• .                          24 

       Quadrennial Commission on ••••••••••••••••••••••..••                                             6

         Secretaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 14,15
    Secretaries: 

       Federal Judicial Secretaries Association... • • • • • • • • • • • • •                           14 

       Magistrates'; Salaries of.. • •••••• •. ••• .••••••• •• . .• •••                                15 

         Salaries of .........................................                                         14 

       Temporary; Authorization for. •• .••••••• • . . . .•• ••••.. .                                  13 

    Sentencing: 

       Com mission .... "............................. ".....                                          21 

         Institutes .•••••••••.•..••.••••••.....•.•••••.•••..•                                         20 

    Social Security. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5

    Staff Attorney's Office; Eleventh Circuit.. •••• • . • •• •• •••• •                                14 

    Staffing Formulas: 

         Bankruptcy clerks. • . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . • . . . • . .        16 

         Pretrial Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      16 

    Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals.. • . . • • • • . • • • . • • • • •                           13 

    Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges ••••.••.•••.••••                                         8

    Victim and Witness Protection Act of 1982 .•••.•••..••..•.                                         32 





*U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICEI1985-528-866,)0848




                                                    41

