        REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
     JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

                               March 17, 1987



        The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on
March 17, ,1987, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United
States issued under 28 U.S.C. 331. The Chief Justice presided and the
following members of the Conference were present:

First Circuit:

           Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
           Chief Judge Juan M. Perez-Gimenez, District of
                   Puerto Rico

Second Circuit:

           Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
           Chief Judge John T. Curtin, Western District of
                   New York

Third Circuit:

           Chief Judge John J. Gibbons
           Chief Judge Murray M. Schwartz, District of Delaware

Fourth Circuit:

           Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
           Judge Frank A. Kaufman, District of Maryland

Fifth Circuit:

           Chief Judge Charles Clark
           Chief Judge L. T. Senter, Jr., Northern District of
                   Mississippi
Sixth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Pierce Lively
          Judge Robert M. McRae, Jr., Western District of
                  Tennessee

Seventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge William J. Bauer
          Judge Frank J. McGarr, Northern District of Illinois

Eighth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
          Chief Judge John F. Nangle, Eastern District of
                  Missouri

Ninth Circuit:

          Chief Judge James R. Browning
          Chief Judge Robert J. McNichols, Eastern District of
                  Washington

Tenth Circuit:

          Chief Judge William J. Holloway
          Chief Judge Sherman G. Finesilver, District of Colorado

Eleventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge Paul H. Roney
          Chief Judge James Lawrence King, Southern District of
                  Florida

District of Columbia Circuit:

          Chief Judge Patricia M. Wald
          Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District of
Federal Circuit:

          Chief Judge Howard T. Markey

Court of Internationa! Trade:

          Chief Judge Edward D. Re


         Circuit Judges Frank M. Coffin and Gerald 6. Tjoflat; Senior
Circuit Judges John D. Butzner, Jr. and Otto R. Skopil, Jr.; District Judges
Barbara 6. Crabb and Morey L. Sear; Senior District Judge Elmo 6.
Hunter; and Circuit Executive James A. Higgins attended all or some of         II
the sessions of the Conference.
                                                                               i
                                                                               I

        Congressman Robert W. Kastenmeier, Chairman of the House               3
in the Congress of interest to the judiciary.

       The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable Edwin
Meese Ill, and Solicitor General Charles Fried, addressed the Conference
on matters of mutual interest to the Department of Justice and the
Conference.



James E. Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director; Karen K. Siegel, Special Assistant
to the Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General Counsel; and
Robert E. Feidler, Lenislative and Public Affais Officer. A. Leo Levin and

                                                                    -   . .
~dministrativeAssistant to the Chief Justice, and Richard Schickele, Staff
Counsel to the United States Supreme Court, were also present.

        The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Professor A. Leo
Levin, presented a report on the activities of the Center.
  --




                     REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR
                   OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
                   OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS

        The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, L. Ralph Mecham, submitted to the Conference a brief report on
the judicial business of the courts during the calendar year 1986. The
Conference authorized its immediate distribution.

                 JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

          Mr. Mecham reported that during 1986, a total of 1,187 new
appeals were filed in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit, a 47 percent drop from 1985. Dispositions in the Federal Circuit
rose six percent to 1,942. Since dispositions exceeded filings substan-
tially, the pending caseload fell 54 percent to 631 on December 31, 1986.
The rate of increase in the number of appeals filed in the twelve regional
courts of appeals slowed during 1986. Filings totalled 34,724, an increase
of nearly three percent over 1985. Terminations rose four percent to
33,923, but remained below the level of filings. As a result, the number of
cases pending in the regional courts of appeals rose three percent to


        In the United States district courts, civil filings declined nearly 13
percent during 1986 to 243,495, the lowest total since 1982. The district




         During 1986, there were 42,549 criminal cases docketed, an
increase of four percent over 1985. The district courts disposed of five
percent more criminal cases, but the 40,661 terminations fell below the
level of new case filings, resulting in an eight percent increase in the
pending caseload. On December 31, 1986, there were 25,546 criminal
cases pending on United States district court dockets.

         The number of bankruptcy petitions filed durirlg 1986 rose to
530,008, an increase of 28 percent over the previous year. Bankruptcy
terminations numbered 414,126, an increase of 18 percent over 1985.
Since filings outnumbered terminations, the number of bankruptcy
petitions pending rose nearly 18 percent to 777,008 on December 31,




                                     4
                                                             --  - ---
                                                                     - -
                                                                       -      - --




        Mr. Mecham also reported that on March 17, 1987, there were 15
vacancies among the 168 judgeship positions authorized for the United
States courts of appeals, 46 vacancies among the 575 authorized United
States district court judgeship positions, and one vacancy on the United
States Court of InternationalTrade.

                        JUDICIAL PANEL ON
                      MULTlDlSTRlCT LITIGATION

        A written statement filed with the Conference by the Judicial Panel
on Muhidistrict Litigation indicated that during the six-month period ended
December 31, 1986, the Panel centralized 274 civil actions pursuant to 28
U.S.C. 1407. Of that number, 119 were transferred for coordinated or
consolidated pretrial proceedings with 155 actions originally filed in the
transferee districts. The Panel denied transfer of 37 actions.

        Since its creation in 1968, the Panel has transferred 15,300 civil
actions for centralized pretrial proceedings in carrying out its statutory
responsibilities.

               COMMlTrEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

         Judge Frank M. Coffin, Chairman of the Committee on the Judicial
Branch, orally briefed the Conference on the recent actions of the Com-
mission on Executive, Legislative and Judicial Salaries, the President, and
the Congress to increase judicial salaries. At the Conference's request,
the Committee will transmit a report on these activities to all members of
the judiciary.

              COMMIITEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

           CLASSIFICATION OF CVB CLERICAL POSITIONS

       There are currently eight automated Central Violations Bureau
(CVB) offices, in Eastern New York, Maryland, Eastern Virginia, Western
Texas, Western Kentucky, Northern and Central California, and Colorado.
The automated centers process misdemeanor violation notices for almost
90 percent of the district courts.

         The Conference approved an amendment to the Judiciary Salary
Plan to establish a target grade level of JSP-7 for positions performing
full-range CVB duties in the eight automated CVBs.



                                   5
  ALLOCATION OF PRO SE LAW CLERK POSITIONS


The Conference approved the following statement on pro se law


 The pro se law clerk program has been a valuable and cost-
 effective legal resource which works in a centralized manner for
 a district court as a whole, not for any single judicial officer. Pro
 se law clerks provide services which do not duplicate, but rather
 complement, the assistance provided by personal law clerks or
 legal assistants.

 Initial requests for pro se law clerk positions should be fully
 justified with appropriate supporting documentation and evalu-
 ated by comparison against more definitive criteria than exist
 presently. These new criteria should be developed with a view
 toward adopting factors similar to those utilized for magistrate
 positions, e.g., comparative district court workloads, current
 utilization of judicial officer and subordinate resources, geogra-
 phy, etc. They could well include a standard report from pro se
 law clerks, detailing the number and types of duties performed.

 The Subcommittee on Supporting Personnel of the Court
 Administration Committee should continue to exercise its
 traditional role of determining whether the criteria for the authori-
 zation of pro se law clerks are suitable, the content thereof, and
 with what frequency the criteria should be reviewed and modi-
 fied; as appropriate, should conduct post-allocation review of
 positions authorized by the Administrative Office; and should
 determine whether any authorized positions should be trans-
 ferred to a court with greater need, as demonstrated by compari-
 son with the authorization criteria and in light of limited pro se
 law clerk resources and competing demands for them.

 In view of Congressional interest in attorney positions generally,
 further study should be made by the Subcommittee on Support-
 ing Personnel as to whether pro se law clerk positions should
 continue to be funded as deputy clerk positions under 28 U.S.C.
 751 or some other statutory provision.
        CLASSIFICATION OF DISTRICT COURT EXECUTIVES,
        CLERKS OF COURT, CHIEF PROBAI-IONOFFICERS,
           AND CHIEF PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICERS

          In order to categorize off ices of the courts and thereby determine
appropriate salaries for clerks of court, the Subcommittee on Supporting
Personnel recommended that the number of judges, magistrates, and staff
be combined into the following formulas, which yield numerical indices for
district and bankruptcy courts:

       District Court Formula: (number of judges x 500) plus (number of
       magistrates x 200) plus (number of staff x 100)

      Bankruptcy Court Formula: (number of judges x 200) plus (number
      of staff x 100)

Courts would then be ranked on the indices and the following breakpoints
established:

                               District Courts

      Category 1          18,000 points and above           JSP-17
      Category 2          6,000 to 17,999 points            JSP-16
      Category 3          2,300 to 5,999 points             JSP-15
      Category 4          Below 2,300 points                JSP-14

                             Bankruptcy Courts

      Category 1          20,000 points and above           JSP-17
      Category 2          5,200 to 19,999 points            JSP-16
      Category 3          1,800 to 5,199 points             JSP-15
      Category 4          Below 1,800 points                JSP-14

The Subcommittee proposed that no chief deputy clerk be graded higher
than JSP-15, and that the indices be refigured every two years.

        The Subcommittee also recommended that the grade of a chief
probation officer or chief pretrial services officer be based upon the
number of officers in the respective probation or pretrial services office as
is warranted under the applicable work-measurement formula, with the
index and cutoff points as follows:




                                     7
       Category 1           80 officers and above              JSP-17
       Category 2           25 through 79 officers             JSP-16
       Category 3           7 through 24 officers              JSP-15
       Category 4           6 or fewer officers                JSP-14

Deputy chief probation officers, currently provided to the larger offices,
would remain at the JSP-14 level for Category 2 offices, and would be
upgraded to the JSP-15 level in Category 1 offices.

          The Committee approved the recommendations, provided (1) that
in any individual district court, no bankruptcy clerk, chief probation officer,
or chief pretrial services officer shall be classified at a level higher than the
clerk of the district court; and (2) that incumbents be "grandfathered to
protect their current grades, but not their ultimate promotion potentials.
The Conference agreed to the recommendations, including the two
provisos, and also agreed that, in the courts which are participating in the
district court executive pilot program, the grade level of the district court
executive shall be equal to the grade level of the district court clerk in that


                           LAW CLERK SALARIES

          In many areas of the country, top law school graduates are being
offered salaries far beyond those of the federal government. In order to
reduce this dispariiy, and subject to the availability of funds, the Confer-
ence voted to remove the present JSP-11 and JSP-12 salaries for law
clerks and legal assistants to judicial officers from the graded Judiciary
Salary Plan schedule, with the qualification criteria of the positions to
remain unchanged. New appointees would be paid $33,000 and $36,500,
in lieu of grades JSP-11 and JSP-12, respectively, subject automatically to
any future comparability increases.

               COURT REPORTERS' TRANSCRIPT RATES

         Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 753(9, each court reporter may charge and
collect fees for transcripts requested by the parties, at rates prescribed by
the courts subject to the approval of the Judicial Conference. At its last
session (Conf. Rpt., p. 61), and effective October 1, 1986, the Conference
authorized the following temporary increases in the maximum allowable
transcript rates:




                                      8
                AD HOC COMMllTEE ON COURT REPORTERS

             In 1984, Chairman Elmo Hunter created the Ad Hoc Committee on
    Court Reporters in response to the request of the Judicial Conference to
    study (1) the advisability of placing court reporters on a full-time salary
    without the right to retain the proceeds from transcript production; and (2)
    the advisability of making court reporters employees of the courts of
    appeals, rather than the district courts.

            Consistent with its determination to review these questions in an
    impartial manner, the Ad Hoc Committee contracted for a management
    study through the competitive process with a private firm, Price Water-
    house. After reviewing the Price Waterhouse analysis, the Ad Hoc
1   Committee concluded that it was neither wise nor necessary at this time to
    change the court reporter employment relationship with regard to retention
    of transcript fees or affiliation with and supervision by district courts. The
    Ad Hoc Committee determined that the problems giving rise to the
    Conference's request to study this matter can and must be resolved within
    the present employment framework through improved management and
    control of the services of court reporters. The Ad Hoc Committee sug-
    gested that specific reforms to enhance effective management be pro-
    posed by the Subcommittee on Supporting Personnel for submission to
    the parent committee and the Conference.

             The Ad Hoc Committee did note that the lack of credible data
    relating to their workload and earnings, self-reported by court reporters,
    has hampered the work of the Conference in resolving court reporter
    management problems. The Ad Hoc Committee urged the Conference to
    require the district courts, consistent with guidelines of the Administrative
    Office, to review for completeness and accuracy the reports submitted by
    court reporters. These reports are used both by the Administrative Office
    and by committees of the Conference in the allocation of additional
    personnel and in setting transcript fees and salaries. The Committee also
    recommended that court reporters be required to maintain and certify,
    under penalty of perjury, proper records of time, attendance, transcript
    production, and earnings.

            The Conference adopted the findings and conclusions of the Ad
    Hoc Committee on Court Reporters, and directed that the Ad Hoc Commit-
    tee continue to monitor the situation and propose appropriate manage-
    ment reforms until discharged by the Judicial Conference.




                                         10
               RETIREMENTAND RECALL OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS
                                                                                     I

               In March, 1982, the Conference adopted a retirement proposal for
      fixed-term judicial officers (Conf. Rpt., p. 17). The proposal would provide
      for a full annuity equal to the salary of office after 14 years of service,
      payable at age 65, with the annuity payable for eight or more, but fewer


      annuity after five years of service would also be provided.

              The Conference voted to reaffirm support for its March, 1982               I
      retirement proposal, with three minor modifications: (1) judges of the
      United States Claims Court would not be included; (2) October 1, 1979
      would be applied uniformly as the date on which to begin crediting service;
      and (3) a floor of 40 percent of salary for disability annuities would be
                                                                                     1
      imposed.                                                                       1
              The Conference's draft bill permits fixed-term judicial officers to


      Congress provide for parity of treatment for terriiorial judges and United
      States magistrates under the Civil Service Retirement System provisions
      presently applicable to bankruptcy judges.

                   RETIREMENT COVERAGE FOR LAW CLERKS
                          AND STAFF AlTORNEYS

              In 1983 and 1984 (September 1983 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp.


      elect temporary "term" appointments or permanent "career" appointments.
      The Conference agreed to modify the 1983 and 1984 resolutions to
      provide that an individual hired in one of these positions for a period
      understood to be less than four years shall be appointed as a "term"
      employee and subject only to social security, not federal retirement.

                          INCREASES IN FEE SCHEDULES



      study the possibility of increasing the entire range of miscellaneous fees
      prescribed by the Judicial Conference" pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1913

 %.
1.
do
                                          11
("Courts of appeals"), 1914 ("District court; filing and miscellaneous fees;
rules of court"), 1926 ("Claims Court"), and 1930 ("Bankruptcy fees").
After consulting with the Committee on the Administration of the Bank-
ruptcy System and reviewing comments received from chief judges and
clerks of court on the proposed increases, the Committee on Court
Administration recommended the following fee schedules, which were
approved by the Conference effective May 1, 1987:

                   Judicial Conference Schedule of Fees
                  for the United States Courts of Appeals

        Fees to be paid to clerks of the courts of appeals (except that no
fees are to be charged for services rendered on behalf of the United


            For docketing a case on appeal or review, or docketing any
            other proceeding, $100. A separate fee shall be paid by each
            party filing a notice of appeal in the district court, but parties
            filing a joint notice of appeal in the district court are required to
            pay only one fee. A docketing fee shall not be charged for
            the docketing of an application for the allowance of an
            interlocutory appeal under 28 U.S.C. 1292(b), udless the
            appeal is allowed.
            For every search of the records of the court and certifying the
            results thereof, $15.
            For certifying any document or paper, whether the certification
            is made directly on the document or by separate instrument,

            For reproducing any record or paper, 50 cents per page. 'This
            fee shall apply to paper copies made from either (1) original
            documents; or (2) microfiche or microfilm reproductions of the
            original records.
            For reproduction of magnetic tape recordings, either cassette
            or reel-to-reel, $15 including the cost of materials.
            For reproduction of the record in any appeal in which' the
            requirement of an appendix is dispensed with by any court of
            appeals pursuant to Rule 30(f), F.R.A.P., $25.
            For each microfiche or microfilm copy of any court record,
            where available, $3.
            For retrieval of a record from a Federal Records Center,
            National Archives, or other storage location removed from the
            place of business of the court, $25.



                                     12
        I
               9.       For a check paid into the court which is returned for lack of
                        funds, $25.
              10.       Fees to be charged and collected for copies of opinions shall
                        be fixed, from time to time, by each court, commensurate with
                        the cost of printing.

    !                           Judicial Conference Schedule of
    i                  Additional Fees for the United States District Courts
    1               Fees to be charged for services performed by clerks of the district
            courts (except that no fees are to be charged for services rendered on
            behalf of the United States):

               1.       For filing or indexing any paper not in a case or proceeding for
                        which a case filing fee has been paid, $20. This fee is
                        applicable to the filing of a petition to perpetuate testimony,
    j
                        Rule 27(a), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the filing of
    I                   papers by trustees under 28 U.S.C. 754, the filing of letters
                        rogatory or letters of request, and the registering of a judg-
                        ment from another district pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1963.
               2.       For filing a requisition for and certifying the results of a search
                        of the records of the court for judgments, decrees, other
                        instruments, suits pending, and bankruptcy proceedings, $15
                        for each name searched.
               3.       For certifying any document or paper, whether the certification
                        is made directly on the document or by separate instrument,
                        $5 -
               4.       For reproducing any record or paper, 50 cents per page. This
                        fee shall apply to paper copies made from either: (1) original
                        documents; or (2) microfiche or microfilm reproductions of the
                        original records.
               5.       For reproduction of magnetic tape recordings, either cassette
                        or reel-to-reel, $15 including the cost of materials.
               6.       For transcribing a record of any proceeding by a regularly
                        employed member of the court staff who is not entitled by
                        statute to retain the transcript fees for his or her own account,
                        a charge shall be made at the same rate and conditions
                        established by the Judicial Conference for transcripts pre-
                        pared and sold to parties by official court reporters.
               7.       For each microfiche sheet of film or microfilm jacket copy of
                        any court record, where available, $3.



                                                 13
S
           For retrieval of a record from a Federal Records Center,
           National Archives, or other storage location removed from the
           place of business of the court, $25.
           For a check paid into the court which is returned for lack of
           funds, $25.
           For an appeal to a district judge from a judgment of conviction
           by a magistrate in a misdemeanor case, $25.
           For admission of attorneys to practice, $20 each, including a
           certificate of admission. For a duplicate certificate of admis-
           sion or certificate of good standing, $5.                                I
                                                                                    I
           Judicial Conference Schedule of Additional Fees
               for the United States Bankruptcy Courts                              1
                                                                                    I
       Fees to be charged for services performed by clerks of the                   I
bankruptcy courts (except that no fees are to be charged for services
rendered on behalf of the United States):
                                                                                    i

           For reproducing any record or paper, 50 cents per page. This
           fee shall apply to paper copies made from either: (1) original
           documents; or (2) microfiche or microfilm reproductions of the
           original records.
           For certifying any document or paper, whether the certification
           is made directly on the document or by separate instrument,

           For reproduction of magnetic tape recordings, either cassette
           or reel-to-reel, $15 including the cost of materials.
           For amendments to a debtor's schedules or lists of creditors
           after notice to creditors, $20 for each amendment, provided
           the bankruptcy judge may, for good cause, waive the charge
           in any case.
           For every search of the records of the bankruptcy court
           conducted by the clerk of the bankruptcy court or a deputy
           clerk, $15 per name or item searched.
           For filing a complaint, a fee shall be collected in the same
           amount as the filing fee prescribed in 28 U.S.C. 1914(a) for
           instituting any civil action other than a writ of habeas corpus.
           If the United States, other than a United States trustee acting
           as a trustee in a case under Title 11, or a debtor is the
           plaintiff, no fee is required. If a trustee in a case under Title
           11 is the plaintiff, the fee shall be payable only from the estate
           and to the extent there is any estate realized. The exemption
           is not granted to a debtor in possession.
                                                                                I


                                    14
  16.        For docketing a proceeding on appeal or review from a final
             judgment of a bankruptcy judge pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 158(a)
             and (b), $100. A separate fee shall be paid by each party
             filing a notice of appeal in the bankruptcy court, but parties
             filing a joint notice of appeal in the bankruptcy court are
              required to pay only one fee.

Language to clarify reopened and converted Bankruptcy Code cases.

        a.    Filing fees prescribed by 28 U.S.C. 1930(b) must be collected
             when a Bankruptcy Code case is reopened, unless the
             reopening is to correct an administrative error or for actions
             related to the debtor's discharge. If a Bankruptcy Code case
             is reopened for any other purpose, the appropriate fee to be
             charged is the same as the filing fee in effect for commencing
             a new case on the date of reopening.
        b.   If a Bankruptcy Code case (or estate in the instance of a joint
             petition) is converted to another chapter, the amount of the
             fee due upon conversion shall be the filing fee prescribed for
             the new chapter, less any credit for filing fees previously paid.
             This requirement shall not apply to the fee which must be paid
             when a chapter 7 or 13 case converts at the request of the
             debtor to chapter 11 on or after November 26,1986.

                   Judicial Conference Schedule of Fees
                     for the United States Claims Court

        Services to be performed by the clerk of the United States Claims
Court (except that no fees are to be charged for services rendered on
behalf of the United States):

   1.        For filing a civil action or proceeding, $60.
   2.        For reproducing any record or paper, 50 cents per page. This
             fee shall apply to paper copies made from either: (a) original
             documents; or (b) microfiche or microfilm reproductions of the
             original records.
   3.        For certifying any document or paper, whether the certification
             is made directly on the document or by separate instrument,
             $5.
   4.        For admission of attorneys to practice, $20 each, including a
             certificate of admission. For a duplicate certificate of admis-
             sion or certificate of good standing, $5.
   5.       For receipt of a monthly listing of court orders and opinions,
            $10 per year.

          'The Conference also noted that Public Law 99-500, the
Judiciary's Appropriation Act for the Fiscal Year 1987, increased the fee
for filing a civil action pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1914(a) from $60 to $120, but
failed to impose a comparable increase for cases filed in the United States
Claims Court pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2520. The Conference voted to
recommend that 28 U.S.C. 2520 be amended to effect a comparable
increase, h,     from $60 to $120, in the Claims Court filing fee.

                    CLOSING OF COURT FACILITIES

        Under 28 U.S.C. 462(f), the Administrator of General Services is
"authorized and directed" to close court accommodations "which the
Director recommends for closure with the approval of the Judicial
Conference of the United States." The Conference approved the
recommendation of the Fourth Circuit Judicial Council and the Director of
the Administrative Office that the court facility at Rock Hill, South Carolina
(fiscalyear 1986 rental cost, approximately $40,000) be closed.

                PARKING IN "HIGH-RISK CRIME AREAS

         Under parking guidelines (Chapter 20 of ihe United States Courts
Design Guide) adopted by the Conference last September (Conf. Rpt., p.
59), the determination of a "High-Risk Crime Area" was to be made by the
Administrative Office. Recognizing that the 1982 Report of the Attorney
General's Task Force on Court Securii places responsibility for decisions
affecting security with the district courts, the Administrative Office and the
Committee recommended that the Design Guide be amended to give local
district court security committees, rather than the agency, the
responsibility of designating "High-Risk Crime Areas". 'The Conference
approved the amendment.

                                  TRAVEL

         At its last session (Conf. Rpt., p. 59), the Conference approved
new Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges. Under the new
regulations, justices and judges traveling within the continental United
States may claim a per diem allowance without itemizing expenses or, by
itemizing, actual expenses of subsistence not to exceed 150 percent of
the per diem allowance. The General Services Administration has
established a standard per diem allowance of $50 and a lengthy schedule


                                     17
of enhanced per diem rates by geographic location which, except as set
forth below, seem sufficient. However, recognizing that some locations
frequented by the judiciary are absent from the enhanced per diem list --
and thus maximum reimbursement in these locations would be limited to
150 percent of the standard per diem allowance, or $75 -- the travel
regulations also permit justices and judges the alternative of claiming
actual expenses of subsistence not to exceed $150 per day.

         Under present law, the $150 per day option cannot be extended to
judicial branch employees other than Article Ill judges, Claims Court
judges, and judges of the territorial district courts. Consequently, to the
extent they must attend meetings or conferences in "non-listed" locations,
bankruptcy judges, United States magistrates, and other judicial branch
personnel must absorb that portion of their lodging, meals, and incidental
expenses in excess of 150 percent of the prescribed per diem rate for the


        The Conference approved the Committee's recommendation that
Congress should be requested to amend 28 U.S.C. 604(a) to authorize
the Director of the Administrative Office, under the supervision and
direction of the Judicial Conference, to reimburse official travel expenses
incurred by judicial officers and employees at rates equal to those
applicable to justices and judges.

                              ARBITRATION

            e Conference voted to reaffirm support for the proposed
"Court-Annexed Arbiiration Act of 1985" (March 1986 Session, Conf. Rpt.,
pp. 6-7), in lieu of enactment of H.R. 4341, 99th Congress, an alternative
arbitration bill.

       NATIONAL CHILDHOOD VACCINE INJLIRY ACT OF 1986

         Although enacted, the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of
1986 (Public Law 99-660) will not become effective until "the effective date
of a tax enacted after the date of enactment of this Act to provide funds for
compensation." The Act provides a compensation scheme, administered
by the federal courts, that must be exhausted prior to the award of more
than $1,000 in damages for injuries caused by a vaccine.




                                    18
            The issues of substantive policy addressed by the Act are matters
    for the Congress. However, the Committee noted that the Act as passed
    raises substantial constitutional questions and contains numerous and
    severe procedural defects relating to both federal and state courts. The
    Conference voted to urge the Congress not to fund the National Childhood
    Vaccine Injury Act, and to amend or reconsider the Act to avoid
    substantial constitutional questions and to correct procedural defects
    raised by the legislation in its present form.

                                CIVIL RlCO SUITS

             In March, 1986 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 11-12), the Judicial Conference
    approved a resolution suggesting that Congress seriously consider
    narrowing the reach of 18 U.S.C. 1964(c) (civil suits under the Racketeer
    Influenced Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO)). Because the impact on the
    federal courts of suits brought under this provision grows daily more acute,
    the Conference concurred in the Committee's recommendation that the
    Congress promptly take steps to narrow significantly the scope of the civil
I   RlCO provisions in 18 U.S.C. 1964(c).

                          STATE JUSTICE INSTITUTE

            'The Conference reiterated its strong support for the recently
    created State Justice Institute, including reasonable funding for its
    operation.

                     JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY

             The Ad Hoc Subcommittee on Judicial Conduct and Disability was
    formed in July, 1983, in response to the Conference's charge that the
    Committee on Court Administration consider the reconciliation of the
    disparate circuit rules for handling complaints of judicial misconduct or
    disability under the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. 372(c).
    Among other things, the Act provides that each judicial council may
    prescribe such rules for the conduct of disciplinary proceedings as it
    considers appropriate and that these rules may be modified by the Judicial
    Conference.

            Section 372(c) was enacted into law by the Judicial Councils
    Reform and Judicial Conduct and Disability Act of 1980 (Public Law
    96-458), and became effective on October 1, 1981. Effective on that date,
    each circuit council issued a rule governing its handling of complaints
    under the Act. It was generally understood that a considerable period of


                                        19
             experimentation would be necessary before the Conference could exert
             meaningful review authority over the disparate rules adopted by the
                                                                                                  I
             judicial councils.                                                                   1I
         I           Contemporaneously with the formation of the Ad Hoc Committee,
         !
         I
             the Circuit chief judges embarked on an effort to draft model rules that
             might be proposed for adoption by the judicial councils. In 1986, a special
             committee of circuit chief judges completed Illustrative Rules Governing

             commentary by the Federal Judicial Center.
                                                                                                  I
                      The Conference voted to ask that each judicial council and
             .national court substantially adopt the Illustrative Rules as soon as possible
             following the March, 1987 Judicial Conference. The Conference also
              urged each judicial council and national court to inform the Conference by
              September 30, 1987, through the Committee on Court Administration, of
              its experience with local judicial discipline rules.

                        TEMPORARY EMERGENCY COURT OF APPEALS

                      In response to a request from three senators to consider the need
             for continuation of the Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals (TECA),                 !
             the Conference concurred in the Committee's recommendation that TECA


             forum for future appellate review of petroleum allocation and price support
             cases, some 350 of which are pending in the district courts, was
                                                                                              J
                                                                                              1
             determined to be a matter better left to the Congress.

                                   PLACES OF HOLDING COLIRT

I.?                   The Southern and Middle Districts of Florida, the Judicial Council
 $1

a1
     I
             of the Eleventh Circuit, and the Committee recommended that the
             Counties of Collier, Hendry, Glades, and Highlands in the Southern
                                                                                              I
t,           District of Florida, and the Counties of DeSoto, Charlotte, and Lee in the
/i
111
             Middle District, all be placed in the same district, either Southern or          k


                                                                                              I
1'
             Middle. This would enable Ft. Myers, which is already designated as a
4,
{I
             place of holding court and which has adequate court facilities, to be
1;           utilized by these counties. The Conference agreed to support the
I            enactment of suitable legislation to place all seven counties within the
                                                                                              i
11           Southern or the Middle District of Florida.
                   ADDITIONAL COURT REPORTERS

        The Committee declined to approve an additional court reporter
position in the Southern District of Florida.

                             AUTOMATION

       The Committee on Court Administration considered, and
unanimously approved, the Five-Year Plan for Automation in the United
States Courts (1987 Update). In addition to automatic data processing,
the 1987 version of the Plan includes an office automation project and
programs for data and voice communications.

         The Subcommittee on Judicial Improvements reported to the
parent committee and the Conference that, in recognition of the fact that
the Bankruptcy Court Automation Project (BANCAP) will be of inestimable
value to the overburdened bankruptcy courts, the Subcommittee had
unanimously requested the Federal Judicial Center to focus its
development resources to insure that BANCAP is completed according to
the schedule set forth in the current version of the Five-Year Plan. This
will require other bankruptcy automation efforts, including Judicial Center
support for a Department of Justice-managed demonstration project (see
section 310 of Public Law 99-554, the Bankruptcy Judges, United States
Trustees, and Family Farmer Bankruptcy Act of 1986), and any
modification of BANCAP to satisfy new U.S. Trustee needs, to be deferred
indefinitely. The Subcommittee also directed the Administrative Office to
reexamine the Five-Year Plan implementation schedules of non-case
management systems such as the Financial and Jury Systems, in order to
accelerate implementation of BANCAP, if possible.

                     COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

           APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1987

         The Committee on the Budget reported that the fiscal year 1987
appropriation for the judiciary, signed into law as part of the
government-wide "continuing resolution" (Public Law 99-500), provided a
total of $1,192,592,000. This represents an increase in budget authority
of $161,435,000, or 16 percent over the amount appropriated for the fiscal
year 1986.




                                   21
          ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

          The Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since
its last report, the Committee had received nine inquiries and issued nine
advisory opinions. The Chairman also responded to 17 telephone
inquiries that did not require reference to the Committee.

          CODE OF CONDUCT FOR UNITED STATES JUDGES

         The Conference agreed to delete the word "JUDICIAL" from the
title of the volume containing the Code of Conduct for United States
Judges, at the earliest opportunity consistent with the availability of funds.

            COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

          The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during
the period August 15, 1986, through February 15, 1987, the Committee
had recommended 72 intercircuit assignments to be undertaken by 50
judges. Of this number, 12 were senior circuit judges, six were active
circuit judges, 21 were senior district judges, five were active district
judges, two were senior judges of the Court of International Trade, and
four were active judges of the Court of International Trade.

       Of the 72 assignments approved, 31 judges undertook 48
assignments to the courts of appeals, and 21 judges undertook 24
assignments to the district courts.

                               GUIDELINES

        The Chief Justice and the Committee approved the following
guidelines and procedures for the intercircuit assignment of United States
judges, effective November 21, 1986:

     1.     A federal judge has responsibility: first, to the particular
            court of which he or she is a member; second, to the other
            courts within his or her own circuit; and third, to the courts
            outside his or her circuit.

     2.     The chief of the borrowing circuit will certify the need for a
            judge to be assigned from another circuit. Assignment of
            judges from their statutory base will be on the basis of the
            need of the borrowing circuit. This standard will govern the
            assignments of both active and senior judges.



                                     23
3.   Except for emergency situations, circuits in need of help
     should forecast their need as much as possible and advise
     the committee of the type of help, times and places where the
     help is needed and the number of judges that may be
     required.

4.    Except in emergency situations, a circuit which lends active
     judges may not borrow from another circuit; a circuit which
     borrows active judges may not lend.

5.   When an active judge is borrowed or lent for a particular case
     or cases, for example, due to the disqualification of all judges
     in the borrowing circuit, the lenderlborrower rule will not apply.

6.   The lender~borrowerrule may be relaxed in appropriate
     situations with respect to senior judges, provided the chief
     judge of the lending circuit is consulted to assure the needs of
     that circuit are met first.

7.   In the event all judges of a given circuit disqualify themselves,
     the chief judge shall notify the Chairman of the Intercircuit
     Assignment Committee who, in consultation with the Director
     of the Administrative Office and the Chief Justice, will select a
     judge or panel of judges as the case may be. To avoid the
     appearance of impropriety or conflict of interest, judges of the
     borrowing circuit, once disqualified, should not participate in
     the selection of the visiting judge or judges.

8.   Except in emergency situations, a judge assigned to work on
     the general calendar of a district court should serve at least
     two weeks if the travel is less than 750 miles, and for at least
     one month if the travel exceeds 750 miles. This 750-mile
     travel limitation does not apply to senior judges assigned to
     work in an appellate court.

9.   If deemed necessary, a visiting judge may be accompanied
     by up to two members of his or her staff. The borrowing court
     will be expected to furnish additional supporting personnel as
     required.




                              24
                      OPERATING PROCEDURES

     Certificate of Need (A0 Form 23) The chief circuit judge certifies
     that there is a need within his or her circuit for a judge to be assigned
     from another circuit. The certificate is sent to the Chairman of the
     Committee, as noted at the bottom of the form.

     Certificate of Consent (A0 Forms 24 and 248) An active judge
     needs the consent of his or her circuit chief judge; a senior judge can
     consent to hisfher own assignments. In both cases, the chief judge
     of the lending circuit should be consutted to assure that the needs
     within that circuit are satisfied first.

     Intercircuit Assignment When the visiting judge is chosen and the
     applicable consent is received the Chairman will submit the
     committee's recommendation to the Director of the Administrative
     Office who will prepare the designation and forward it with all
     supporting material to the Chief Justice for signature.

     Upon approval by the Chief Justice, all documents will be returned to
     the Director for distribution to the clerks of the lending and borrowing
     courts, as provided by 28 U.S.C. 295. Notice of the approval will be
     sent to the chief judges of the lending and borrowing circuits, the
     chief judges of the lending and borrowing districts (if applicable), and
     the visiting judge. The permanent records of the assignments will be
     maintained by the Administrative Office.

     COMMllTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDllRE

        The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that
the Chief Justice had appointed Judge Lloyd D. George as chairman of
the Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules, and Judge Joseph F. Weis,
Jr. as chairman of the Advisory Committee on Civil Rules. No rules
amendments were submitted to the Conference, atthough a number are
under consideration by the advisory committees.
           COMMllTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                     PROBATION SYSTEM

                       SENTENCING GUIDELINES

       The Committee reported that it had considered revised draft
sentencing guidelines and concurred in the recommendation of the Ad
Hoc Committee on Sentencing Guidelines (infra, pp. 40-41) that the
Conference take no formal position on the guidelines until their
promulgation in April, 1987.

          COMPREHENSIVE CRIME CONTROL ACT OF 1984

       At its September, 1985 session (Conf. Rpt., pp. 60-61), the
                                                   '



Conference endorsed several amendments to the Sentencing Reform Act
of 1984 (Title II of the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984, Public
Law 98-473) proposed by the Probation Committee. While some of the
proposed amendments have been enacted, numerous others have not.
The Conference reaffirmed support for the Committee's proposed
amendments and authorized their resubmission to the Congress.

                       MEMORIAL RESOLUTION

        The Conference adopted the following resolution:

            The Judicial Conference of the United States notes with
            sadness the death of United States Probation Officer Thomas
            E. Gahl on September 22, 1986. Tom was a fine and
            dedicated federal probation officer for twelve years and gave
            his life serving the District Court for the Southern District of
            Indiana. We, the members of the Conference, convey our
            sympathy to his widow, Nancy, and to their two children,
            Christopher and Nicholas. We ask that this resolution be sent
            to them as a mark of our respect and high esteem for Tom.

         QUALIFICATION STANDARDS FOR PROBAl~lON
                                              AND
                 PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICERS

        Under the Civil Service Retirement System, law enforcement
personnel may retire at age 50 after completing 20 years of law
enforcement service. Retirement under this system results in a higher rate
of annuity computation.



                                    26
             COMMITTEE ON ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                    BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                 RECALL TO SERVICE OF RETIRED
                     BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

        At its March, 1985 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 22), the Conference
adopted regulations governing the recall to service of retired bankruptcy
judges.     In order to provide uniform regulations governing the
authorization of space, facilities, and equipment for bankruptcy judges
recalled to service, the Conference approved the following amendment


            Section 12. Space, Facilities and Equipment

            Upon certification of a Judicial Council recalling a retired
            bankruptcy judge to active service that adequate support
            cannot be provided by existing resources, the Director of the
            Administrative Office may provide space, facilities and
            equipment including law books and other supplies
            necessary for the performance of the duties of the recalled
            bankruptcy judge.

            GUIDELINES FOR THE ADMINIS'TRATION OF
                     CHAPTER 13 CASES

         Since 1963, the Judicial Conference has promulgated guidelines
for the administration of Chapter 13 cases to promote uniform
supervision of trustee practices in the various districts. On the
recommendation of the Committee, the Conference approved
amendments to Guideline 17 (to delete the requirement that interest
earned on estate funds be included in the ten percent of payments
limitation which a standing trustee is allowed for compensation and
expenses) and Guideline 11 (to incorporate a technical change in
accounting terminology).




                                   28
                  ADDITIONAL DUTY STATIONS AND                            I
       In order to accommodate the 52 new judgeships created by the
Bankruptcy Judges, United States Trustees, and Family Farmer


additional places of holding court:                                       a

                                                                      I
THIRD
                                                                      I
   New Jersey                               2      Camden
                                                                      I
                                                   Newark
    Pennsylvania, Western                   1      Pittsburgh

FOURTH
   Maryland                                 1      Baltimore
   North Carolina, Western                  1      Charlotte
   South Carolina                           1      Columbia
  Vlrginia, Eastern                         1      Richmond

FIFTH
   Louisiana, Westem                        1      Alexandria*
   Texas, Northern                          1      Dallas
   Texas, Southern                          3      Houston (2)
                                                   Corpus Christi*
    Texas, Western                          1      Austin*

SIXTH
   Kentucky, Western                        1      Louisville



    Tennessee, Western                      1      Memphis


Corpus Christi, Texas; and Austin, Texas.                                 lm
I
                          ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS

            Due to an unusual increase in bankruptcy filings, the Conference
    voted to recommend that Congress authorize one additional bankruptcy
    judgeship for the District of Colorado.

I
                 SALARIES OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGES AND
I
                     UNITED STATES MAGISTRATES

I
            On February 4, 1987, the President's recommendations for
    adjusted executive, legislative, and judicial salaries became law. Under
I   these recommendations, bankruptcy judges and United States
    magistrates received increases only from $70,500 to $72,500, or about
    2.8 percent.

             The ability of the judiciary to continue to attract and retain
I
    qualified individuals to serve as bankruptcy judges and United States
    magistrates will be seriously impaired unless Congress acts quickly to
I   raise the salaries of these judicial officers. Accordingly, on the
    recommendations of the Committees on the Administration of the
    Bankruptcy and Federal Magistrates Systems, the Conference endorsed
    an immediate resolution of the problem through Congressional
    enactment of pay increases for bankruptcy judges and magistrates.

             The Conference has previously recommended (March 1982
    Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 16; March 1983 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 9-10)
    that a mechanism be established whereby the Director of the
    Administrative Office, under the direction and supervision of the Judicial
    Conference, be authorized to establish and maintain a salary system for
    officers of the judiciary other than Article Ill judges. Salary levels
    established as of March 1, 1987, require a reexamination of the salary
    ceiling element in the Conference-proposed mechanism. At the request
    of the Chairmen of the Bankruptcy and Magistrates Committees, the
    Court Administration Committee will undertake to review the
    appropriateness of that element and report any recommended revision
    thereof to the Conference. No legislative proposal embodying the
    mechanism will be filed with the Congress until after the Conference has
    acted upon the Committee's recommendation.
                   DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA ClRCLllT

District of Columbia:

    Continued the two full-time magistrate positions which are due to
    expire in 1988 for additional eight-year terms.

                            FIRST CIRCUIT



    Continued the authority of the clerk of court to perform magistrate
    duties for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
    additional compensation of $2,134 per annum.

                            FlFrH CIRCUIT

Louisiana, Western:

    Authorized a part-time magistrate position at Lafayette (or
    Opelousas) at a salary of $36,250 per annum.

Texas, Western:

            Continued the full-time magistrate position at San Antonio
            which is due to expire on October 8, 1987, for an additional
            eight-year term.

            Continued the full-time magistrate position at El Paso which
            is due to expire on December 18, 1987, for an additional
            eight-year term.

            Continued the full-time magistrate position at Austin for an
            additional eight-year term.

                           SIXTH CIRCUIT

Kentucky, Western:

   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Paducah for an
   additional eight-year term.




                                  34
                                                                                   1
                                                                                       I
                                                                                        I
    Tennessee, Eastern:                                                                ;I
                                                                                         I
       Authorized the full-time magistrate at Knoxville to exercise                    1,




       of Tennessee.

                              SEVENTH CIRCUIT

    Indiana, Southern:

       Converted the part-time magistrate position at Evansville to a
       full-time magistrate position.                                              I
                                                                                   I
                                                                                   !
                                EIGHTH CIRCUIT                                     I
                                                                                   I


    North Dakota:

        Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Grand
        Forks (or Devils Lake or Minnewaukan) from $4,269 to $1 1,858 per
        annum.

                                 NINTH CIRCUIT

    Arizona:

        1.      Converted the part-time magistrate position at Tucson to a
                full-time magistrate position.

        2.       Directed the court not to fill a vacancy in a full-time
                 magistrate position at Tucson occurring two years or more



    California, Central:

        Authorized one new full-time magistrate position for the district, to be
1       located at Los Angeles.
     COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT

                  APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS


         The Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice A d submitted
                                                                             I    '



                                                                             1
to the Conference a report on appointments and payments under the
Criminal Justice Act during the fiscal year 1986. 'The report indicated
                                                                             111
that $70,074,000 originally was appropriated for the fiscal year 1986 for     i
implementation of the CJA.         Of this amount, $2,657,000 was
sequestered in accordance with "Gramm-Rudman-Hollings" (Public Law               ;

99-177), leaving a balance of $67,417,000 available. It is estimated that
this entire amount will be required to meet projected fiscal year 1986
obligations.

         During the fiscal year 1986, approximately 59,570 persons were
represented under the CJA, compared to 54,564 persons during the
                                                                             I
                                                                             ,
                                                                                 I

fiscal year 1985, an increase of 9.2 percent. Of these 59,570 persons        I[
                                                                              t

represented, 31,500, or 52.9 percent, were represented by federal public



        The Conference authorized the Director of the Administrative         I
Office to transmit the report to all chief judges, to all federal defender
organizations, and to others who may request copies.

       BUDGET REQUESTS - FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS

         The Conference appproved supplemental budget requests for
federal public defender organizations for the fiscal years 1987 and 1988
as follows:
             Colorado:
                 FYI987   ...........      $69,916
                 FYI988   ...........      $115,800

             Western Washington and Alaska:
                FYI987 ...........       $ 82,831
                FY 1988 ........... $108,867


                   GRANT REQUESTS -
           COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

      The Conference aDDr0ved su~~lemental
                                        sustaininn arants for




        The Conference approved the following amendments to the
Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act:

   1. Numerous technical amendments to incorporate the provisions
      of the Criminal Justice Act Revision of 1986, Title I, Public Law
      99-65 1.
   2. Amendments to paragraphs 2.14 and 3.16, relating to death
      penalty federal habeas corpus cases.
   3. Amendments to paragraph 2.18, relating to the appointment and
      compensation of standby counsel.
               COMMllTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
                    OF THE CRIMINAL LAW

        The Committee on the Administration of the Criminal Law
reported that, at its most recent meeting, the Committee considered
revised draft sentencing guidelines and referred its comments to the
Committee on the Administration of the Probation System. See also
"Sentencing Guidelines", infra, p. 40-41.

                COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION OF
                      THE JURY SYSTEM

      MACHINE READABLE QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAIRE

        The Conference authorized the District Court for the District of
New Mexico to use a machine readable form of the juror qualification
questionnaire previously approved by the Conference under 28 U.S.C.
1869(h).

               COMMllTEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES

         SERVICE OF ARTICLE Ill JUDGES ON COURTS OF
          MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU

         With the gradual termination of the trust known as Trust
Territories of the Pacific Islands, the United States has entered into
compacts of free association with the governments of the Federal States
of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Republic of Palau. The three
compact states do not have enough full-time judges to staff their entire
court structure. In order to permit Ninth Circuit judges to sit by
designation on such courts, as was done when the islands were
administered by the United States under the Trust Territory Government,
the Conference agreed to the following resolution:

        RESOLVED, that the Conference endorses enactment by the
        Congress of the United States of legislation which would permit
        judges of the Ninth Circuit, with the permission of the Chief
        Judge of the Circuit, to serve on the courts of the Federated
        States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of
        Palau, if so requested by an authorized official of the compact
        state.




                                   39
                              COMMITTEE ON THE BICENTENNIAL

     li                           OF THE CONSTI'rU'rlON

                      The Committee on the Bicentennial of the Constitution reported
             on its participation in the Bicentennial effort.
     1;
!I                   AD HOC COMMITTEE ON SENTENCING GUIDELINES
     1:


     I                              SENTENCING GUIDELINES

                      The Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 (Title II of the
             Comprehensive Crime Control A d of 1984, Public Law 98-473) created
             a determinate sentencing system and a United States Sentencing
             Commission to monitor it. The Sentencing Commission is charged with
             drafting sentencing guidelines which, if not disapproved by Congress,
             will control the exercise of sentencing discretion in the federal courts.
             The guidelines must be submitted to Congress by April 16, 1987, and
             absent further Congressional action, guideline sentencing will
             commence November 1, 1987.

                       In September, 1986, the Sentencing Commission published for
             comment draft guidelines and policy statements. At its last session
             (Conf. Rpt., p. 93), the Conference authorized the chief judge of each
             circuit to designate a circuit judge and a district judge to participate at




         I   circulated a second draft of tentative guidelines. The Criminal Law and
         I   Probation Committees, as well as the Ad Hoc Committee on Sentencing
     I:      Guidelines, reviewed this second draft at their most recent meetings. As
     I
     I
             noted, the final guidelines will be promulgated in April.

                      If the Conference wishes to express views to the Congress on
                                                                                             I
             the final guidelines, it will be important to do so prior to the next session
             of the Conference in September. The Conference authorized the Ad
             Hoc Committee, in consultation with the Committees on the
             Administration of the Criminal Law and the Probation System, to
             recommend Conference positions, as appropriate, to the Executive
             Committee following promulgation of the sentencing guidelines. The Ad
             Hoc Committee was also asked to recommend whether, in light of
             substantial judicial branch opposition to the guidelines, the Judicial
Conference should recommend repeal of the statute creating the
Sentencing Commission and requiring sentencing guidelines.

         COMPREHENSIVE CRIME CONTROL ACT OF 1984

         In order to prevent unnecessary difficulties in the transition from
the old sentencing system to the new system under the Sentencing
Reform Act, the Sentencing Commission submitted legislation to the
Congress that would make the applicability of the Act dependent upon
the date of commission of an offense rather than on the date an offender
is convicted. The Conference voted to endorse that legislative initiative.

               AD HOC COMMlllEE ON ELECTRONIC
                      SOUND RECORDING

        The Ad Hoc Committee on Electronic Sound Recording reported
on the progress of the electronic sound recording program during the
calendar year 1986. The Conference approved the report and
discharged the Committee, vesting in the Administrative Office the
responsibility for any further implementation of the program and periodic
evaluation for Conference review.

       COMMlTrEE TO STUDY THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE

        The Chief Justice orally briefed the Conference on the activities
of the Committee to Study the Judicial Conference. The Committee
plans to present comprehensive recommendations at the September,
1987 Conference session.

         PROCEEDINGS UNDER JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND
                     DISABILITY ACT

        The Conference voted to authorize the Chief Justice to execute
and issue to the Speaker of the House of Representatives a certificate
providing as follows:
                           CERTIFICATE

        TO THE SPEAKER,              UNITED     STATES      HOUSE       OF
        REPRESENTATIVES:

               The Judicial Conference of the United States, acting
        pursuant to section 331 of title 28, United States Code, does
        hereby certify as follows:


                                    41
                             RESOLUTION

       Noting the scheduled retirement of A. Leo Levin, Director of the
Federal Judicial Center, the Conference adopted the following



        WHEREAS: A. Leo Levin has announced his retirement as
Director of the Federal Judicial Center in July of 1987; and

        WHEREAS: as the fourth director of the Center, succeeding
Justice Tom C. Clark, Judge Alfred P. Murrah, and Judge Walter E.
Hoffman, he served as director during more than half the Center's life;




later, as Coordinator of what has come to be known as the Pound
Revisited Conference; and

        WHEREAS: Professor Levin provided exceptional leadership of




         Therefore, be it RESOLVED, That the Judicial Conference of the
United States hereby extends sincere appreciation and best wishes to
Professor A. Leo Levin and Mrs. Levin as they return to the University of
Pennsylvania, with the hope and expectation that they will both maintain
their association with the federal judiciary in the years to come.



     The Conference affirmed the Executive Committee's elections to
membership on the Board of the Federal Judicial Center of Judge Alvin

whose term would have expired March 28, 1989) and of Judge Anthony



                                   44
Kennedy of the Ninth Circuit (for a term of four years to succeed Judge
Daniel Friedman, whose term expires on March 28, 1987). The
Conference also elected Judge William C. O'Kelley of the Northern
District of Georgia to membership on the Judicial Center Board to fill the
unexpired term of Judge Howard Bratton and an additional term of four
years to commence March 28, 1987.

                 RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

       The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters
considered at this session where necessary for legislative or
administrative action.




April 10, 1987
