                     REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
                  JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

                                   September 14, 1988



                The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on
        September 14, 1988, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
        United States issued under 28 U.S.C. 331. The Chief Justice presided
        and the following members of the Conference were present:

        First Circuit:

                   Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
                   Chief Judge Frank H. Freedman, District of
                           Massachusetts

    Second Circuit:

                   Chief Judge Witfred Feinberg
                   Chief Judge John T. Curtin, Western District of
                           New York

    Third Circuit:

                  Chief Judge John J. Gibbons
                  Chief Judge William J. Nealon, Jr., Middle District of
                          Pennsylvania

    Fourth Circuit:
.   .
                  Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
                  Judge Frank A. Kaufman, District of Maryland

    Fifth Circuit:

                  Chief Judge Charles Clark
                  Chief Judge L. T. Senter, Jr., Northern District of
                          Mississippi
Sixth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Albert J. Engel
          Chief Judge Philip Pratt, Eastem District of Michigan

Seventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge William J. Bauer
          Judge Sarah Evans Barker, Southern District of Indiana

Eighth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
          Chief Judge John F. Nangle, Eastern District of
                  Missouri

Ninth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Alfred T. Goodwin
          Chief Judge Robert F. Peckham, Northern District of
                  California

Tenth Circuit:

          Chief Judge William J. Holloway
          Chief Judge Earl E. O'Connor, District of Kansas

Eleventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge Paul H. Roney
          Chief Judge Sam C. Pointer, Jr., Northern District of
                  Alabama

Distrid of Columbia Circuit:

          Chief Judge Patricia M. Wald
          Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District of
                  Columbia
    Federal Circuit:

              Chief Judge Howard T. Markey

    Court of International Trade

              Chief Judge Edward D. Re



            Circuit Judges Richard S. Amold, Stephanie K. Seymour,,and
    Harlington Wood, Jr.; District Judges Richard M. Bilby, Juan M. Perez-
    Gimenez, William W. Schwarzer, and Morey L. Sear; Senior District
    Judge Walter T. McGovern; and Claims Court Judge Loren A. Smith
    attended all or some of the sessions of the Conference. Circuit Execu-
    tives Steven Flanders (Second Circuit), John Hehman (Third Circuit),
    Samuel W. Phillips (Fourth Circuit), Lydia Comberrel (Fifth Circuit),
    James A. Higgins (Sixth Circuit), Collins T. Fitzpatrick (Seventh Circuit),
    June L. Boadwine (Eighth Circuit), Francis L. Bremson (Ninth Circuit),
    Eugene Murret (Tenth Circuit), Norman E. Zoller (Eleventh Circuit), and
    Linda Finkelstein (District of Columbia Circuit), and Circuit Executive-
.   designate Vincent Flanagan (First Circuit) were also present.

           The Attorney General of the United States, Dick Thornburgh,
    and Solicitor General Charles Fried addressed the Conference on
    matters of mutual interest to the Department of Justice and the
    Conference.

            L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
    United States Courts, attended the sessions of the Conference, as did
    James E. Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General
    Counsel; Robert E. Feidler, Legislative and Public Affairs Officer; Karen
    K. Siegel, Chief, Office of the Judicial Conference Secretariat; and David
    A. Sellers, Public Information Officer. Judge John C. Godbold and
    Charles W. Nihan, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial
    Center, also attended the sessions of the Conference, as did Noel
    Augustyn (Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice) and Richard
    Schickele (Staff Counsel to the United States Supreme Court).
                     REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR
                   OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
                   OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS

        The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, L. Ralph Mecham, submitted to the Conference the Annual
Report of the Director for the year ended June 30, 1988. The Confer-
ence authorized the Director to release the Annual Report immediately in
preliminary form and to revise and supplement the final printed edition.

                 JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

         Mr. Mecham reported that during the year ended June 30, 1988,
the number of cases appealed to the 12 regional courts of appeals rose
almost seven percent to 37,524, due to increases in all sources of
appeals except civil cases involving the U.S. government. Dispositions,
while increasing by four percent, still did not reach the level of filings, so
pending cases increased by six percent to 27,644 on June 30, 1988.
Filings in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit fell
four percent to 1,296, due primarily to a decrease in Merii Systems
Protection Board appeals. Dispositions declined 15 percent, but still
outnumbered filings. As a consequence, the pending caseload fell six
percent during the year, to 658.

        In the United States district courts, the number of civil filings
increased after two years of declines in filings. The year's increase,
which was less than one percent, reflected a level of 239,634 new civil
cases. The largest increases were in social securiiy disability cases and
recovery of defaulted student loans. The number of civil cases disposed
of almost equaled filings this year, resutting in an increase in the pending
caseload of less than one-half of one percent. On June 30, 1988, there
were 244,242 civil cases pending in the district courts.

        Criminal case filings continued the increase begun in 1981 with
a three percent increase. Case filings rose to 44,585, which is an
average of 78 new criminal cases for each district court judgeship.
Criminal case terminations, which had been on the rise for the last seven
years, decreased less than one percent this year. As a result, the
pending caseload increased almost 10 percent to 27,733 on June 30,
1988.
        Bankruptcy petitions filed increased almost six percent to
594,567. This is substantially less than last year's 17 percent increase
and the record increase of 31 percent in 1986. Nonbusiness filings rose
10 percent this year while business filings fell by nearly 17 percent.
Terminations increased over 22 percent, but fell short of filings by almost
7,OOG petitions. On June 30, 1988, the pending bankruptcy caseload
increased one percent over the previous year, to 815,497.

        Mr. Mecham also reported that as of September 14, 1988, there
were 10 vacancies among the 168 judgeship positions authorized .for the
United States courts of appeals, and 27 vacancies among the 575
authorized judgeship positions in the United States district courts.

                REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE
                   FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER

         The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Judge John C.
Godbold, reported to the Conference on behalf of the Judicial Center on
the following matters:

      c   The Annual Report of the Center is in a new format,
          designed to be more readable and to serve as a
          better means of communicating information to the
          members of the Conference and to other readers.

      c   Training for guideline sentencing is on hold until the
          Supreme Court decides the guideline sentencing
          case pending before it (United States v. Mistretta, 682
          F. Supp. 1033 (W.D. Mo. 1988), cert. granted, 43
          Cr.L. 4065, No. 87-1904, June 13, 1988); after that
          decision, there will be a reassessment of what
          additional training, if any, is needed.

      o   The weighted caseload study of district courts is
          under way in 29 courts. A time and weighted
          caseload study of bankruptcy courts has been
          requested by Congress, and in turn requested of the
          Judicial Center by the Judicial Conference Committee
          on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System. The
          design of the study is completed and has been pilot
          tested by six judges. The first wave of testing is
          expected to begin in October.
       c    With respect to small computers, the Judicial Center
            is pursuing ways to acquaint judges and their staffs
           with the capacity of computers obtained for in-
           chambers use, ways to assist judges in determining
           what services they want from their in-chambers
           computers, ways to list software available to accom-
           plish purposes desired by judges, and ways to assist
           judges in their acquisition of software.

                        JLlDlClAL PANEL ON
                      MULTlDlSTRlCT LITIGATION

         A wriiten statement filed with the Conference by the Judicial
Panel on Muhidistrict Litigation indicated that during the period July 1,
1987 through June 30, 1988, the Panel centralized 862 civil actions
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407. Of that number, 358 were transferred for
coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings with 504 actions
             '


originally filed in the transferee districts. The Panel denied transfer of 25
actions.

         Since its creation in 1968, the Panel has centralized 16,788 civil
actions in pretrial proceedings in carrying out its statutory mandate.

                       EXECUTIVE COMMll-rEE

         The Executive Committee of the Judicial Conference reported
that, since the last session of the Conference in March, 1988, the
Executive Committee had addressed the following matters on the
Conference's behalf:

           APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1988

         On April 15, 1988, the Executive Committee approved a spend-
ing plan for the appropriation "Salaries and Expenses" for the third
quarter of the fiscal year 1988, and a revised listing of supplemental
appropriations requests' for certain judicial accounts. Language-only
supplementals (no new appropriations) were also authorized for submis-
sion to Congress (a) to provide for reimbursement of administrative
expenses of the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 by the
United States Claims Court from the special fund established to pay
judgments awarded under the Act; (b) to provide the judiciary with
authority to transfer funds between the "Salaries and Expenses" ap-
propriation for the courts and the appropriation for the Administrative
                                     54
Office for services performed on behalf of the courts by the Administra-
tive Office; and (c) to provide for salary increases for the Deputy Director
of the Federal Judicial Center and the circuit executives to Level IV of
the Executive Schedule. The Executive Committee also agreed to
implement during the fiscal year 1988 Conference-approved recommen-
dations to establish four death penalty resource centers (subject to
congressional approval of a reprogramming request) and, effective April
15, 1988, to provide for the payment under the Criminal Justice Act of
$75 per hour for in- and out-of court attorney time in death penalty
habeas corpus cases.

        Subsequent events relating to non-CJA funding necessitated
Executive Committee .or Judicial Conference reconsideration of the
funding levels for each of the four resource centers whose implementa-
tion had been authorized by the Executive Co,mmittee in April, 1988.
Two of the centers (Mississippi and North Carolina) chose to delay their
start-up dates until the fiscal year 1989 and to present revised funding
requests for regular Judicial Conference consideration in September,
1988. See "Death Penalty Resource Centers", -   infra pp. 73-74.

        On July 19, 1988, the Executive Committee approved a spend-
ing plan for the "Salaries and Expenses" appropriation for the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year 1988, and approved the fourth quarter FY 1988
expenditure from the "Defender Services" appropriation of approximately
$130,000 to fund the remaining two death penalty resource centers
whose implementation previously had been authorized (Georgia and
Tennessee), and an additional death penalty resource center
(Louisiana). The $130,000 authorization was contingent upon congres-
sional approval, subsequently granted, of a request for reprogramming
of the necessary funds.

        On August 24, 1988, the Executive Committee reallocated
certain fourth quarter automation expenditures, and authorized the
expenditure of an additional $1,700,000 in FY 1988 funds, previously
intended to be carried over into the fiscal year 1989, for the purchase of
Unisys computer hardware.

    APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEARS 1989 AND 1990

        In July, 1988, in accordance with its usual practice, the Commit-
tee on the Budget compiled budget estimates for the fiscal year 1990 to
include all judiciary requirements. However, taking into account con-
gressional realities in a period of severe fiscal restraints, the Budget
Committee voted to present for Judicial Conference approval an
                                    55
"alternative" budget, below the total level of fl~nding requested by
elements within the judiciary, to increase chances of a successful
presentation of the request to the Congress.

         At its August 24, 1988 meeting, the Executive Committee
addressed the question of whether the Budget Committee had exceeded
its jurisdictional mandate in proposing the alternative budget, and
concluded, that while the Budget Committee should advise the Confer-
ence on the level of appropriations that should be sought, the recom-
mendation on where actual cuts should occur should be made by the
Executive Committee, pending further consideration of the matter by the
full Judicial Conference. The Executive Committee requested that the
chairman of the Budget Committee meet with the chairs of the commit-
tees affected by a less than fully funded budget (the "line" chairs), to
agree on an alternative submission for presentation to the Executive
Committee and the Conference. Such a co,nsensus was reached, and
approved by the Executive Committee on September 13, 1988 and the
Conference on September 14, 1988. See "Appropriations for the Fiscal
Year 199OW,   -infra p. 64.

          The Executive Committee requested that a similar process to
that followed with respect to the FY 1990 budget submission (i,    n"lne"
chairs and the Budget Committee fashioning a consensus for presenta-
tion to the Executive Committee) be followed for spending plan decisions
on execution of the fiscal year 1989 budget.

                   UNITED STATES CLAIMS COURT

         In March, 1988 (Conf. Rpt., p. 29), the Judicial Conference voted
to refer S. 1608, 100th Congress, the "United States Claims Court
 Improvement Act of 1987, to the Executive Committee, for further
referral to the appropriate Conference committee(s) to determine
whether the legislation would allow the Claims Court to be independent
of the Judicial Conference 2nd the Administrative Office for administra-
tive purposes without adversely affecting the availability of resources to
the judiciary. See also September 1987 Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 68. The
Executive Committee referred S. 1608 jnin?!] to the Budget Committee
for a review of budgetary consider2tions, and to the Committee on
Federal-State Jurisdiction for a review of the appropriate place of the
Claims Court in the federal system. See also "United States Claims
Courtn,-infrapp. 67, 76.

       The Executive Committee declined a request from the Chief
Judge of the Claims Court for full membership on the Judicial Confer-
ence pending final Conference resolution of this matter.
                      MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

         Tne Executive Committee agreed to the appointmant of a
subcommittee of the Executive Committee to study increases in fees as
a means of increasing funds available for judiciary needs; referred to the
Committee on the Judicial Branch an American Bar Association resolu-
tion on evaluation of federal judges; approved a recommendation of the
Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System for the
creation of an additional bankruptcy judgeship in the District of Alaska,
and authorized transmittal of implementing legislation to the Congress;
advised the Chief Justice of its consensus that, as a policy matter,
circuits should have the option of electing either active or senior district
judges to membership on the Judicial Conference; authorized the
Administrative Office to seek amendments to leave-sharing legislation to
provide fpr judicial branch administration of a leave-sharing program for
judiciary employees; and recommended that the Chief Justice appoint an
 ad hoc committee to review recommendations from other Judicial
Conference committees concerning the introduction of "cameras in the
courtroom".

           COMMllTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

                  INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES BY THE
                      ADMINISTRATIVE

         In the last few years, the Administrative Office has received an
average of seven complaints per year from court employees, the
General Accounting Office, and others, alleging waste, fraud, or abuse
by judicial branch employees. The matters in question have been
forwarded to, the appropriate court of appeals or district court with an
offer of agency assistance. The Director of the Administrative Office
asked the Committee to consider whether this investigative assistance
should continue.

         On the recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Confer-
ence authorized the Director to continue to provide investigative as-
sistance, with available resources, to a circuit judicial council or court,
upon request of the council or chief judge of the court in which the
services are to be performed. The delivery of these investigative
services will be under the direct supervision of the Director or Deputy
Director, and does not affect any services required to be provided by
statute.
              INDEMNIFICATION OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS
                  AND EMPLOYEES SUED IN THEIR
                      OFFICIAL CAPACITIES

          After studying the problems of judicial liability and indemnifica-
tion in the wake of Forrester v. White, 484 U.S. , 108 S.Ct. 538 (1988),
and Westfall v. Erwin, 484 U.S. , 108 S.Ct. 580(1989), the Committee
recommended and the ~ u d i c iConference
                                     r            approved t'he following
guidelines for indemnification of judicial officers and employees to be
published in Volume I-C of the Guide to Judiciary policies and
Procedures:

                            Section V

                         lndemnification

      5.1 The Administrative Office may indemnify the
      defendant judiciary officer or employee for any verdict,
      judgment, or other monetary award which is rendered
      against such officer or employee, provided that the
      conduct giving rise to the verdict, judgment, or award was
      taken within the scope of employment and that. such
      indemnification is in the interest of the United States, as
      determined by the Director or his or her designee.

       5.2 The Administrative Office may settle or compromise
       a personal damages claim against a judiciary officer or
       employee by the payment of available funds at any time,
       provided the alleged conduct giving rise to the personal
       damages claim was taken within the scope of employ-
       ment and that such settlement or compromise is in the
      interest of the United States, as determined by the
       Director or his or her designee.

      5.3 Absent exceptional circumstances as determined by
      the Director or his or her designee, the Administrative
      Office will not entertain a request either to agree to
      indemnify or to settle a personal damages claim before
      entry of an adverse verdict, judgment, or award.

      5.4 To request indemnification to satisfy a verdict,
      judgment, or award entered against an officer or
      employee, the officer or employee shall submit a written
      request, with appropriate documentation including copies
                                    58
       of the verdict, judgment, award, or settlement proposal if
       on appeal, to the General Counsel, who shall thereupon
       submit the request with a recommended disposition to the
       Director for decision.

       5.5 Any payment under this section either to indemnify
       an officer or employee or to settle a personal damages
       claim shall be contingent upon the existence of adequate
       appropriated funds available for the operations of the
       employing court or office.


        The Conference also voted to support H.R. 4358, 100th Con-
gress, and its successor, H.R. 4612, bills to make the Federal Tort
Claims Act the exclusive remedy for common law tort claims against
federal officers and employees.

            COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                     BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                   INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS OF
                       BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

          The Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal Judgeship -Act of
1984 (Public Law 98-353) authorizes the temporary transfer of an active
bankruptcy judge to any other judicial district upon the approval of the
judicial council(s) of the circuit(s) involved. 28 U.S.C. 155(a). To
facilitate the assignment of bankruptcy judges across circuit lines and to
provide accurate statistical information on the effectiveness of intercircuit
assignments in the bankruptcy system, the Judicial Conference ap-
proved the following guidelines for intercircuit assignments of bankruptcy
judges:

       1.    A bankruptcy judge has responsibility to provide
             assistance, first, to the district in which the judge is
             appointed, second, to the other judicial districts
             within the judge's own circuit, and third, to judicial
             districts outside the judge's circuit.

       2.    The assignment of bankruptcy judges from their
             official duty stations determined by the Judicial
             Conference shall be on the basis of the need of the
             borrowing court as certified by the chief judge of the
             borrowing circuit.
       3.   The chief judge of the borrowing circuit shall be
            entitled to full access to all pertinent information
            concerning the borrowed bankruptcy judge and to
            discuss the assignment with the judges of the
            lending district or circuit.

      4.    A circuit lending a bankruptcy judge on an intercir-
            cuit assignment may not concurrently borrow a
            bankruptcy judge from another circuit.

       5.   A circuit borrowing a bankruptcy judge on an
            intercircuit assignment may not concurrently lend a
            bankruptcy judge to another circuit.

       6.   The "lender-borrower" rules may be relaxed in
            situations in which a bankruptcy judge has been
            disqualified, of retired bankruptcy judges who have
            been recalled into active service pursuant to 28
            U.S.C. 155(b), or in other situations if approved by
            the affected circuit councils.

      7.    On an intercircuit assignment, bankruptcy judges
            may take either a law clerk or a secretary; reim-
            bursement for additional suppohg personnel is not
            permitted. The judicial district to which a bankruptcy
            judge is temporarily assigned is expected to furnish
            any additional supporting personnel needed.

      8.    The circuit borrowing a bankruptcy judge from a
            district in another circuit shall forward a copy of the
            certificate of need, the consent of the lending circuit
            to intercircuit assignment, and an order setting forth
            the term of the temporary assignment to the chief
            district and bankruptcy judges of the lending district
            and lo the Director of the Administrative Office who
            shall compile statistics on intercircuit assignments.

                 SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT OF
                      BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

        At its September 1984 session (Conf. Rpt., pp. 70-71), the
Judicial Conference approved regulations for the selection and appoint-
                                    60
ment of bankruptcy judges. At this session, to reflect a change in the
law made by the Bankruptcy Judges, United States Trustees, and Family
Farmer Bankruptcy Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-554), the Conference
amended section 1.01 of the regulations ("Minimum Qualifications") to
provide that admission to the bar of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
constitutes eligibility for service as a bankruptcy judge.

                  RECALL TO SERVICE OF RE-I-IRED
                      BANKRUPTCY JLIDGES

        Regulations governing the ad hoc recall to service of retired
bankruptcy judges were adopted by the Judicial Conference in March,
1985 (Conf. Rpt., p. 22), and amended in September, 1987 (Conf. Rpt.,
p. 82).

          At the suggestion of a chief circuit judge, the Judicial Confer-
ence amended section 7 of the regulations to provide that a chief circuit
judge considering the recall of a retired bankruptcy judge from another
circuit is permitted to have full access to all pertinent information con-
cerning the retired bankruptcy judge, and to discuss the recall assign-
ment with the judges of the circuit and district where the retired
bankruptcy judge had served. The Conference also approved a techni-
cal amendment to section 8 of the recall regulations to correct an internal
inconsistency arising from the September, 1987 amendment.

           BANKRLIPTCY ADMINIS'TRATOR REGULATIONS

         On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
amended the ~egulatidiisGoverning the Establishment, Duties, and
 Functions .of Bankruptcy Administrators, approved by the Conference in
September, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. 81), (a) to confirm that a bankruptcy
administrator's oversight responsibility, as it relates to monitoring the
activities of creditors' and equity security holders' committees, is not
dependent on prior court authorization, except as to convening and
presiding at creditors' committee meetings (section 2.01(d)(3)); and (b)
to authorize the bankruptcy administrator to monitor the sufficiency of
applications for interim compensation and reimbursement of actual,
necessary expenses (section 2.01(i)(5)).

                      ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS

        Due to unusual increases in bankruptcy filings, the Conference
voted to recommend that Congress authorize one additional bankruptcy
judgeship for the Western District of Texas, and to ratify the Executive
                                    61
Committee's recommendation that Congress authorize one additional
bankruptcy judgeship for the District of Alaska. See also "Miscellaneous
Actions", supra p. 57.

                      MEMORIAL RESOLUTION

        Noting the death of Bankruptcy Judge G. William Brown, 'a
member of the Bankruptcy Committee, the Conference adopted the
following resolution:

              The Judicial Conference of the United States with
      great sadness notes the death of Chief Bankruptcy Judge
      G. William Brown on August 13, 1988.

              During his six years on the bench of the United
      States Bankruptcy Court for the Westem District of
      Kentucky, Judge Brown was greatly admired by judges
      and attorneys alike. In addition to his duties as the Chief
      Judge of a busy court, he assumed many important
      responsibilities on behalf of the national bankruptcy
      system. He had served with uncommon distinction since
      1984 on the Committee on the Administration of the
      Bankruptcy System. An active and dedicated member,
      Judge Brown was serving as Chairman of two subcom-
      mittees and was a member of two others at the time of his
      death. He performed additional service as a member of a
      special task force to improve the efficiency of the
      bankruptcy courts. In all these undertakings, he exhibited
      an unerring perceptiveness, a quiet dedication to duty,
      and consistently wise judgment.

              Judge Brown, a native of Louisville, served for
      two years in the United States Marine Corps. He re-
      ceived both a Bachelor of Science in Law and a Juris
      Doctor degree from the University of Louisville. Prior to
      his appointment as a bankruptcy judge in 1982, Judge
      Brown practiced law for nineteen years, during seventeen
      of which he also served as an exemplary standing
      chapter 13 trustee.

              Judge Brown was the embodiment of integrity,
      dedication, and excellence. On the bench, he was always
      in control of the courtroom but was unfailingly courteous
      and open minded. These qualities were recognized
                                  62
      recently by the Louisville Bar Association which honored
      his contribution to the judicial system by naming him
      Judge of the Year for 1987.

              The judges of the Judicial Conference of the
      United States convey their deepest sympathy to Judge
      Brown's children, Julie, Stephen, and Christina, and
      request that this resolution be sent to them in recognition
      of our profound respect and abiding esteem.

                COMMITTEE ON THE BICENTENNIAL
                    OF THE CONSTITUTION

                   PARTIAL FUNDING OF
                                                                      '   '
       INTERNATIONAL APPELLATE JUDGES CONFERENCE

         The Conference approved a proposal of the Bicentennial of the
Constitution and International Appellate Judges Conference Com-
mittees, to allocate $300,000 from the judiciary's bicentennial appropria-
tion to the International Appellate Judges Conference Committee.
These funds will be used toward the expenses of the Fifth International
Appellate Judges Conference, scheduled to be held in Washington,
D.C., in September, 1990.

                    COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

                 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1989

         As of the Judicial Conference session on September 14, 1988,
the judiciary's appropriations act for the fiscal year 1989 had not yet
been approved. However, based upon House and Senate Appropria-
tions Committee actions to date, it was apparent that appropriations
would fall considerably short of the minimal funding levels identified by
the Executive Committee as required to maintain current services.
Accordingly, the Conference authorized the Director of the Administra-
tive Office to submit to the Congress a request for supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year 1989 for "pay costs", and program
supplementals for "Salaries and Expenses", "Defender Services", "Fees
of Jurors and Commissioners", and "Court Security". The Conference
also authorized the Director to amend the requests because of any new
legislation, action taken by the Judicial Conference, or any other reason
the Director considers necessary and appropriate.
           APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1990

        As noted at pages 55-56 ("Appropriations for the Fiscal Years
1989 and 1990m),the Executive Committee concurred in the Budget
Committee's judgment that submission of a less than fully funded budget
request for the fiscal year 1990 could increase the judiciary's chances of
a successful presentation of that request to the Congress. Conse-
quently, it was agreed that both total requirements, and an "alternative"
level, would be presented. 'The Executive Committee further agreed that
the recommendation to the Conference on where actual cuts should
occur should be made by the Executive Committee, pending Conference
establishment of a priority-setting mechanism within the judiciary.

         With regard to the FY 1990 submission, the Executive Commit-
tee requested that the Budget Committee and the "line" committee
chairs affected by a less than fully funded budget, fashion an alternative
submission for presentation to the Executive Committee and the Con-
ference. Such a consensus was fashioned and, by unanimous vote, the
Executive Committee and the Conference concurred in a revised
alternative budget submission for the fiscal year 1990. This alternative
budget would fully fund all activities at least at the fiscal year 1988 level
and, in addition, include all additional positions requested but funded at
25 percent, anticipating delays in hiring. New program initiatives which
are included are also funded at 25 percent of annual costs. This budget
does defer requesting funds to implement an ungraded salary system for
law clerks (see also "Implementing Judiciary Salary Plan Modifications in
the Fiscal Year 1989", -infra pp. 65-66).

        The Director of the Administrative Office was authorized to
amend the budget estimates because of new legislation, action taken by
the Judicial Conference, or for any other reason the Director considers
necessary and appropriate.

                            REGISTRY FEES

         On the recommendations of the Budget, Bankruptcy, and
Judicial Improvements Committees, the Judicial Conference amended
the miscellaneous fee schedules for the appellate, district, and
bankruptcy courts to assess a charge of up to three percent for the
handling of registry funds, contingent upon language being included in
legislation to make these fee revenues available directly for use by the
judiciary.* Such charges will be assessed from interest earnings, and in

*Such authority was subsequently granted in Public Law 100-459, the
judiciary's appropriations act for the fiscal year 1989.
     accordance with a detailed fee schedule to be issued by the Director of
     the Administrative Office after consultation with the Clerks' Advisory
     Committee and the Chairmen of the Judicial Conference Committees on
     Judicial Improvements and Bankruptcy Administration. The Director was
     empowered to exempt certain registry items from any fees altogether
     and to assess charges at any level lower than three percent should he
     deem a higher charge inappropriate.
i
f
                 IMPLEMENTING JUDICIARY SALARY PLAN
                 MODIFICATIONS IN THE FISCAL YEAR 1989

             A. The Judicial Conference agreed to implement in the fiscal
$    year 1989 the following Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) modifications
     approved by the Conference at its September 1987 (Conf. Rpt., pp.
     62-65) and March 1988 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 32-33) sessions:
1
E

c
           o    increases to JSP-12 for principal secretaries to chief
C
                circuit judges after three years as secretary to the
13              chief, and upon a showing of exceptional circuit-
                wide duties;

           o    reclassification of secretarial positions in senior staff
                attorneys' offices to JSP-7 and JSP-9, court re-
                corder operator positions to JSP-8, intake positions
                in clerks' offices to JSP-8, probation and pretrial
                services clerical positions to JSP-7, deputy circuit
                librarians to JSP-13, and magistrates' secretaries to
                JSP-11;

           o    substitution of one year for the three-year service
                requirement at the next lower salary level for
                promotion of career law clerks to grade JSP-13, and
                increase in the target grade level of career law
                clerks to JSP-14; and

           o    modification to the quality step increase plan to
                provide that such increases may be approved
                annually (provided that such increases require
                exceptional performance of all major duties in a
                sustained manner that substantially exceeds the
                normal requirements of the position and gives
                promise of continuing).
Reprogramming authoriiy will be requested from Congress, as
necessary.

         B. At its March 1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. 8) and September 1987
sessions (Conf. Rpt., pp. 62-63), the Conference voted to remove the
present JSP-9, JSP-11, and JSP-12 salaries for "elbow" law clerks, pro
se law clerks, and staff attorneys from the graded JSP, and pay new
appointees to these positions $25,400, $33,000, and $36,500, respec-
tively, subject automatically to any future comparability increases. As is
customary with Conference approval of matters requiring the expendi-
ture of additional resources, approval was "subject to the availability of
funds", and the September 1987 Conference (Conf. Rpt., p. 63) specifi-
cally noted that the ungraded system would be funded in the fiscal year
 1989 "only to the extent that these increases are included in the fiscal
year 1989 budget for this purpose." Since Congress will not fund the
system in PI 1989, and since the projected cost of the ungraded system
exceeds $13,000,000 -- an amount far too great to be absorbed, given
the current budgetary constraints - the Conference declined to imple-
ment the ungraded system during the fiscal year 1989.

                     BUDGET DECENTRALIZATION

          In September, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. 77),the Judicial Conference
 approved implementation of a five-court, three-year pilot budget execu-
 tion decentralization project. At this session, the Conference continued
 its expansion of the role of local courts in managing their operating
 budgets by approving two complementary budget decentralization
 proposals. The first, a pilot project authorizing appellate and district
 courts to formulate annual financial plans utilizing balances in annual
 allocations and 75 percent of the savings from positions held vacant in
 order to purchase equipment or make other necessary expenditures,
 was approved for the remainder of the fiscal year 1988 and the fiscal
 year 1989, for Eleventh Circuit courts only. The second proposal would
 allow any court organization to elect to keep a position or positions
 vacant for the time required to accumulate from foregone salary pay-
 ments sufficient funds to purchase personal computers. Effective
 October 1, 1988, this "Personal Computer Purchases with Personnel
 Lapses Program", as approved, establishes a salary level of $20,700 to
calculate the savings regardless of the grade of the unfilled position, and
reserves 25 percent of the savings for a contingency fund for the
judiciary's emergency requirements.
                   UNITED STATES CLAIMS COURT

         In September, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. 68),the Judicial Conference
determined not to object to the creation of an Article I United States
Claims Court outside of the judicial branch. However, as noted supra p.
56 ("United States Claims Court"), the March 1988 Conference (Conf.
Rpt., p. 29) referred S. 1608, 100th Congress, a bill intended to establish
an independent Claims Court, to the Executive Committee, for further
referral to determine whether the legislation would allow the Claims
Court to be independent of the Judicial Conference and the Administra-
tive Office without adversely affecting the availability of resources to the
judiciary. The Executive Committee referred the legislation jointly to the
Budget and Federal-State Jurisdiction Committees.

        On recommendation of the Budget Committee, the Judicial
Conference voted to recommend that there be no change in the United
States'Claims Court budget process, and that the Claims Court's budget
should remain in the judiciary's "Salaries and Expenses" appropriation.
The Conference also agreed that the Claims Court should have more
representation in the Judicial Conference system than it has at present.
See also "United States claims Court", -infra p. 76.

                COMMllTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

         The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last
report, the Committee had received 32 written inquiries and issued 28
advisory responses. The Chairman also responded to 59 telephone
inquiries that did not require reference to the Committee.

                         CODES OF CONDUCT

        In September, 1986 (conf. Rpt., pp. 66-67), the Judicial Confer-
ence revised the Code of Conduct for United States Judges to remove
gender-specific language. At this session, the Conference struck
additional gender-specific references in the Code for Judges and in the
"Commentary" and "Compliance" sections, and made other technical
changes to the Code. The Conference also approved revisions to the
Codes of Conduct for Clerks of Court, Probation Officers, Circuit Execu-
tives, Staff Attorneys, and Law Clerks, to eliminate gender-specific
language, and to make "practice of 'law" and "participation in professional
organizations" provisions uniform. All Codes of Conduct will henceforth
appear in a new Volume II of the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Proce-
-
dures retitled, "Codes of Conduct for Judges and Judicial Employees".
         Certain Judicial Conference resolutions are published in the
binder containing the Code of Conduct for United States Judges (Vol. II
of the Guide, noted above). The Conference rescinded resolutions "B"
(relating to judges serving as officers or directors of educational,
religious, civic, and charitable organizations; see October 1971 Session,
Conf. Rpt., p. 68) and "G" (relating to the taking of photographs and the
broadcasting of judicial proceedings; see March 1979 Session, Conf.
Rpt., pp. 24-25), on the basis that such matters are more comprehen-
sively covered by Canons 4, 5, and 3A(7) of the Code of Conduct for
United States Judges.

                  COMMITTEE ON COURT SECURITY

           ELECTRONIC MONITORING OF COURTROOMS
                  FOR SECURITY PURPOSES

        At the request of the United States Marshals Service, and on
recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved a
proposal to improve judicial security substantially by allowing the
Marshals Service to monitor courtroom proceedings by closed circuit
video equipment. No tape recordings may be made.

         The Conference considered, and declined to approve, a sug-
gested amendment to Canon 3A(7) of the Code of Conduct for United
States Judges, to add a fourth exception "for security surveillance" to the
prohibition on cameras in the courtroom.

                     WEAPONS IN COURTROOMS

         In order to improve court security, the Judicial Conference voted
to recommend that each court issue an order regulating the possession
of firearms or weapons in the courtroom.

                  COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                 AND PROBATION ADMINISTRATION

                            HIV GUIDELINES

         The Judicial Conference authorized the Committee to promul-
gate to probation and pretrial services officers guidelines for investigat-
ing and supervising offenders who have been exposed to the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The guidelines call for case plans for
supervision of individuals exposed to HIV; supervision standards;
instructions concerning self-disclosure of HIV infection to third parties;
use of public health auspices and an individual's consent to disclose
infection status to third parties; notification to the U.S. Marshal when a
violator's warrant is issued and to the heatth care provider or the halfway
house or jail facility; use of consent forms; disclosure of HIV exposure to
the court during the pretrial and presentence investigation phases;
dissemination of educational material on HIV; and development of an
HIV resource officer in each probation and pretrial services office.

                DRUG TESTING FOR PROBATIONERS

        H.R. 4406, 100th Congress, would amend title 18, United States
Code, to provide for mandatory random drug testing of federal
probationers. On the Committee's recommendation, the Conference
voted to recommend against enactment of the bill, on the ground that
existing law is adequate to permit testing of probationers where there is
a reasonable suspicion or previous history of drug abuse.

                 SENTENCING GUIDELINES REPORT

        28 U.S.C. 994(0) provides that certain organizations, including
the Judicial Conference, must at least annually submit to the United
States Sentencing Commission "a written report commenting on the
operation of the Commission's guidelines, suggesting changes in the
guidelines that appear to be warranted and otherwise assessing the
Commission's work." It would appear that the first of these reports is
due on November 1, 1988. However, in view of the uncertainty of the
constitutionality of the guidelines, and the judiciary's relatively little
experience with guideline sentencing to date, the Judicial Conference
endorsed the filing of a limited annual report to the Commission.

               COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES

                  APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

         The Committee reported that in the first half of the fiscal year
 1988, approximately 30,000 persons were represented under the
Criminal Justice Act, compared to approximately 28,000 in the first half
of the fiscal year 1987, an increase of 7.1 percent. Of these 30,000
persons represented, 16,956, or 56.5 percent, were represented by
federal public and community defender organizations. This represents a
7.6 percent increase over the 15,765 cases received during the same
period in the fiscal year 1987.
                      BUDGET REQUESTS .
            FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

        The Conference approved supplemental budget requests for
federal public defender organizations for the fiscal year 1989 as follows:

      California. Eastern .................
      Colorado ..........................
      Connecticut.......................
      Florida. Northern ...................
      Florida. Middle ....................
      Kansas ...........................
      Maryland .........................
      Minnesota ........................
      New Jersey .......................
      New Mexico ......................
      North Carolina. Eastem .............
      Oregon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      Pennsylvania. Middle (proposed separate
       organization) ............ :.........
      Tennessee. Middle .................
      Texas. Southern ...................
      Washington. WesternIAlaska .........
      West Virginia. Southern .............

      TOTAL       ..........................

       The Conference also approved budget requests for the fiscal
year 1990 for the federal public defender organizations as follows:

      Arizona ..........................
      California. Northern.............;...
      California. Eastern .................
      California. Central ...................
      Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      Connecticut .......................
      Florida. Northern ...................
      Florida. Middle ....................
      Florida. Southern ..................
      Hawaii ...........................

'Of this amount. $103.452 is for costs associated with the establishment
of a branch office in Hyattsville.
                                               70
       Illinois. Central & Southern1
           Missouri. Eastern .................
       Kansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
       Louisiana. Eastem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
       Maryland .........................
       Massachusetts.....................
       Minnesota ........................
       Missouri. Western ..................
       Nevada ..........................
       NewJersey .......................
       New Mexico ......................
       North Carolina. Eastern .............
      .Ohio. Northern ....................
       Oklahoma. Eastern. Northern.
          & Western ......................
       Oregon ..........................
       Pennsylvania. Middle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
       Pennsylvania. Western . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
       Puerto Rico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
       South Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      Tennessee. Middle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      Tennessee. Western. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      Texas. Southern ...................
       Texas. Western. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
       Virgin Islands .....................
       Washington. WesternIAlaska .........
       West Virginia. Southern .............

      TOTAL       ..........................                        $35.295. 029   ...




        Observing that the Fifth Circul Judicial Council had approved
the establishment of a federal public defender organization for the
Northern District of Texas. the Conference also approved funding for this
proposed organization for the fiscal years 7989 and 1990 in the amounts
of $973.545 and $873.037. respectively.

         The Committee will entertain requests for supplemental funding
if workload increases or other factors warrant reconsideration of funding
needs.

'Of this amount. $101.737 is for costs associated with the establishment
of a branch office in Hyattsville.
        NOTE: As a result of the Conference's approval of the submis-
sion of a less than fully funded budget request for the fiscal year 1990,
the Defender Services appropriations request for FY 1990 was reduced
by $3,000,000. The projected savings will be generated through savings
in personnel compensation and transcript costs.

                        GRANT REQUESTS -
               COMMLlNlTY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

         The Conference approved supplemental sustaining grants for
the fiscal year 1989 for the following community defender organizations:

       Federal Defenders of San Diego,
        Inc., California, Southern . . . . . . . . . . .          $175,195

       Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
        Georgia, Northern. ................                        116,827

       Legal Aid & Defender Assn. of
        Detroit, Federal Defender Division,
        Michigan, Eastern. ................                         77,746

       The Legal Aid Society of New York,
        Federal Defender Services Unit, New
        York, Eastern & Southern. . . . . . . . . . .              265,530

       TOTAL      ..........................                     $ 635,298


The Conference also approved sustaining grants for the fiscal year 1990
for the six community defender organizations as follows:

       Federal ~efendersof San Diego,
        Inc., California, Southern ...........                   $2,372,147

       Federal Defender Program, lnc.,
        Georgia, Northern. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         921,560

       Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
        Illinois, Northern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,159,793

       Legal Aid & Defender Assn. of
        Detroit, Federal Defender Division,
        Michigan, Eastern. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,I
                                                                    07,382
      The Legal Aid Society of New York,
       Fedl. Defender Services Unit, New
       York, Eastern & Southern. . . . . . . . . . .              3,731,855

       Defender Assn. of Philadelphia,
        Federal Court Division,
        Pennsylvania, Eastern . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1,061,061

      TOTAL      ..........................                     $10,353,798

        The Committee will consider requests for supplemental sustain-
ing grants if workload increases or other factors warrant reconsideration
of the approved sustaining grants.

                DEATH PENALTY RESOURCE CENTERS

        The Conference approved sustaining grants for the fiscal year
1989 for 12 death penalty resource center/wmmunity defender or-
ganizations as follows:

      Alabama Capital Representation
       Resource Center [Alabama] . . . . . . . . .                $235,840

      Arizona Death Penalty Resource
       Center [Arizona] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         180,000

      California Appellate Project
       [California (N), (E), (C), & (S)]          .......           545,693 '

      Volunteer Lawyers Resource Center
       of Florida, Inc. [Florida
       (N), (M), & (S)] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      827,500

      Georgia Appellate Practice and
       Educational Resource Center
       [Georgia (N), (M), & (S)] ............                       267,275

      Kentucky Capital Litigation Center
       [Kentucky (E) & (W)] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           212,760


*This funding level was approved subject to resolution of details relating
to the structure of the organization in a manner deemed satisfactory to
the Defender Services Committee.
                                             73
       Loyola Death Penalty Resource Center
       [Louisiana (E), (M), & (W)] . . . . . . . . . . .              147,730

       Mississippi Capital Death Penalty Center
        [Mississippi (N) & (S)] . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           223,950

       North Carolina Death Penalty Resource
        Center [North Carolina (E), (M),
        &(W)] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     100,060

       Capital Post-Conviction Project
        [Oklahoma (N), (E), & (W)] . . . . . . . . . .                588,823

       South Carolina Death Penalty Resource
        Center [South Carolina] . . . . . . . . . . . .               112,740

       Texas Appellate Practice and
        Educational Resource Center
        vexas (N), (E), (W), & (S)] . . . . . . . . . .               912,600

       TOTAL : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $4,354,971

The requests were approved contingent upon each organization secur-
ing the state and other non-CJA funds' which it had indicated were
 necessary to finance the state component of its activities, and also
contingent upon final approval of all necessary CJA plan amendments.
The Conference also (a) delegated to the Defender Services Committee
the authority to approve revised grant requests of resource centers in
amounts not to exceed the amount originally approved by the Judicial
Conference for a particular fiscal year plus the amount of "start-up"
costs, if any, approved for an earlier fiscal year; (b) approved an amend-
ment to clause 16 of the "Grant and Conditions for Death Penalty
Resource CenterICommunity Defender Organizations" concerning the
expenditure of funds for expert services; and (c) approved for incorpora-
tion into the Guidelines for Administration of the Criminal Justice Act
(CJA Guidelines), at paragraph 2.01 G, several measures contained in
an American Bar Association resolution concernirlg representation in
death penalty federal habeas corpus cases.


'With respect to the majority of such organizations, the proportion of CJA
to non-CJA funding is approximately 60140.
                         FUNDING PRIORITIES

        In recognition of the possibility that the "Defender Services"
appropriation might be insufficient to fund fully the anticipated level of
CJA activities, the Conference established the following priorities for that
appropriations account:

      First priority category: Federal defender organizations,
      including traditional federal public and community
      defender organiza'tions, as well as death penalty resource
      center/community defender organizations.

      Second priority category: Panel attorney compensation.

      Third priority category: Special atternative attorney
      compensation rates for death penalty cases.

      Fourth priority category:     General alternative attorney
      compensation rates.

          ALTERNATIVE HOLIRLY COMPENSATION RATES

          Subsection (d)(l) of the Criminal Justice Act, as amended (18
U.S.C. 3006A(d)(l)), establishes hourly maximum rates of attorney
compensation of $60 per hour for time expended in court, and $40 per
hour for time reasonably expended out of court. The subsection also
authorizes the Judicial Conference to establish an alternative hourly
compensation rate, not to exceed $75 per hour, if the Conference
determines that a higher rate is justified for a circuit or for particular
districts within a circuit.

         Effective with services performed on or after the date funds are
available for implementation, the Conference (a) established a special
alternative rate of $75, for both in- and out-of-court time, for repre-
sentation in federal habeas corpus death penalty cases only, at all court
locations in the Northern District of Ohio, and the Middle and Southern
Districts of Florida; and (b) extended the general alternative attorney
compensation rate of $60 per hour for in- and out-of-court time which it
had previously established for Portland, Oregon (March 1988 Session,
Conf. Rpt., p. 16), to all court locations in the District of Oregon.
                               GUIDELINES

        The Conference approved the following amendments to the
Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act:

       1.    Amendments to paragraphs 2.30 and 3.06, and
             Appendices E and F, regarding interim payment of
             compensation under the CJA.

       2.    An amendment to paragraph 4.03 concerning
             federal defenders' discretionary authoriiy to obtain
             investigative, expert and other services.

        The Conference also disapproved a proposed amendment to
paragraph 4.02 of the Guidelines recommending that the courts of
appeals consider salary parity between federal public defenders and
United States attorneys.

            COMMIlTEE.ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION

                    UNITED STATES CLAIMS COURT

        As noted supra pp. 56 and 67, the Executive Committee referred
to the Federal-State Jurisdiction Committee the question of the appropri-
ate place of the United States Claims Court in the federal system. On
the Committee's recommendation, the Conference unanimously voted to
recommend to the Congress that the Claims Court remain as a part of
the judiciary within the policy structure of the Judicial Conference and
the existing administrative structure.

        The Conference deferred action until its March meeting on two
specific recommendations to increase the Claims Court's participation in
the Judicial Conference system, i.e., to designate the Chief Judge of the
Federal Circuit to represent the claims Court on the Conference, and to
recommend that the Chief Justice consider the appointment of a Claims
Court judge to the Committee on Judicial Resources.

              DIVERSITY OF CITIZENSHIP JURISDICTION

         28 U.S.C. 1332(a)(2) gives the district courts diversity jurisdiction
over actions between citizens of a state and citizens or subjects of a
foreign state; 28 U.S.C. 1332(a)(3) covers actions between citizens of
different states in which citizens or subjects of a foreign state are parties.
Diversity jurisdiction exists under these provisions even though the alien
may have been admitted to the United States as a permanent resident.

         There is no reason why actions involving persons who are
permanent residents of the United States should be heard by federal
courts merely because one of them remains a citizen or subject of a
foreign state or has not yet become a citizen of the United States.
Accordingly, the Conference agreed to recommend that Congress
amend 28 U.S.C. 1332(a) to treat a permanent resident alien as a citizen
of the state of his or her domicile.

                     FOREIGN PRODUCT LIABILITY

         S. 1996 and H.R. 3662, 100th Congress, would, among other
things, enlarge the jurisdiction of the federal courts by modifying the
complete diversity removal requirement of 28 U.S.C. 1441(b) to a
minimal diversity removal requirement, for cases brought by a foreign
claimant against a domestic defendant for injuries sustained abroad
relating to the manufacture, purchase, sale, or use of a product outside
the United States. Since there is no demonstrated need that justifies
departure from existing diversity''rules in such cases, the Conference
opposed this aspect of the bills. The Conference also voted to advise
Congress of its concern that the choice of law rule set out in the bills --
the law of the place of injury, in this case a foreign country -- would be
impractical and difficult to administer.

                          PRODUCT I-IABILITY

         H.R. 115, 100th Congress, as reported by the House Committee
on Energy and Commerce, would amend the Consumer Product Safety
Act (15 U.S.C. 2051 et seQ by adding, inter alia, provisions establishing
standards for manufacturer and product seller liability, standards for
punitive damages, periods of limitations, workers compensation offsets,
and mandatory mediation. While most of the matters addressed in the
legislation raise questions of legislative policy, some bear on judicial
workload and the ability of trial judges to manage litigation, upon which
comment by the judiciary would be appropriate.

        On the recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
agreed to recommend that Congress amend H.R. 1115 to give trial
judges discretion to forego mediation in appropriate cases and to
bifurcate a trial for the determination of punitive damages; to clarify that
the same jury may be used in both phases of a bifurcated proceeding;
and to bar removal of claims under the Act from state to federal court.
                         AVIATION ACCIDENTS

         S. 473, 100th Congress, would regulate interstate commerce by
providing for uniform standards of liability applicable to general aviation
accidents. The bill, and its House companion, generally raise questions
of legislative policy for the Congress. Of concern to the judiciary,
however, is the fact that the legislation would extend federal jurisdiction
to all general aviation accidents without reference to diversity of citizen-
ship and without regard to the amount in controversy, and with an
unlimited righi of removal from state to federal court. Since this expan-
sion is both unwarranted and unnecessary, the Conference opposed this
enlargement of federal jurisdiction. In addition, to reduce the burden on
federal courts and to preserve plaintiffs' choice of forum, the Conference
voted.to recommend that the bills be amended to bar removal of claims
under the Act from state to federal court.

              JURISDICTION OF THE FEDERAL CIRCUIT

        The Judicial Conference endorsed an amendment to 28 U.S.C.
1292(d), proposed by the Department of Justice, to give the Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit exclusive jurisdiction to entertain an
appeal from an interlocutory order of a district court granting or denying,
in whole or in part, a motion to transfer an action to the United States
Claims Court pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1631.

              JLlDlClAL REVIEW OF VETERANS CLAIMS

         The Judicial Conference has consistently voted to recommend
that review of decisions on veterans' claims for benefits should be
conferred exclusively upon the Board of Veterans' Appeals or upon a
new executive branch Article I court, noting that appellate review of the
decisions of the Board of Veterans' Appeals, or a new executive branch
court, by the district courts, courts of appeals and the Supreme Court, is
most undesirable in view of the potential impact on the caseloads of
these courts. The Conference has also noted that if Article Ill judicial
review were deemed to be appropriate, it should be limited to constitu-
tional issues and questions of statutory interpretation. E.g.,September
1982 Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 65.

        S. 2292, 100th Congress, focuses on review of regulations
promulgated by the Veterans Administration and would provide review in
the courts of appeals only of the validity of VA regulations governing
loans, grants, or benefits. The regulations could be reviewed directly
under the Administrative Procedure Act or by a claimant in a benefit
                                    78
proceeding; in the latter case, the validity of the regulation could be
reviewed by a court of appeals, but court review would not extend to the
claimant's entitlement to benefits and factual issues would not be subject
to review "unless they raise a constitutional issue."

         Since the approach taken in S. 2292 is consistent with prior
Conference recommendations on judicial review of VA decisions in
benefit cases, the Conference endorsed this legislation in principle.

                   EXPORT ADMINISTRATION ACT

        H.R. 3973, 100th Congress, would provide for review in the
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit of certain civil
penalty orders of the Secretary of Commerce under the Export Ad-
ministration Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420. Finding judicial review of
such civil penalty orders to be unobjectionable, the Conference agreed
to support such judicial review in principle.

                  REMOVAL OF ALIEN TERRORISTS

         The Office of Management and Budget requested the views of
the Judicial Conference on a Department of Justice draft bill to amend
the immigration laws to provide a new method of removing from the
United States aliens involved in terrorist acts. The bill would create a
special court composed of five sitting district judges to hear proceedings
for removal of alien terrorists (as defined in the bill), with multiple
interlocutory appeals outside the main operation of the district court
structure, to deal with a perceived special problem with international
terrorists in the United States. Since no justification for this departure
from traditional exclusion and deportation procedures has been
demonstrated, the Conference opposed the legislation as placing. an
undue burden on the federal courts. The Conference also voted to
recommend that OMB review the draft legislation carefully in view of the
serious constitutional questions it raises.

           COMMlTrEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

          The Committee on lntercircul Assignments reported that during
the period February 1, 1988, through July 31, 1988, the Committee had
recommended 50 intercircuit assignments to be undertaken by 44
judges. Of this number, one was a retired associate justice of the United
States Supreme Court, 10 were senior circuit judges, 13 were active
circuit judges, 12 were senior district judges, five were active district
judges, two were senior judges of the Court of lnternational Trade, and
two were active judges of the Court of lnternational Trade.

       Of the 50 assignments approved, 30 judges undertook 34
assignments to the courts of appeals, and 16 judges undertook 16
assignments to the district courts.

      COMMllTEE ON INTERNA'IIONAL APPELLATE JUDGES
                  CONFERENCE OF 1990

         The lnternational Appellate Judges Conference Committee
reported on its activities in preparation for the lnternational Appellate
Judges Conference, tentatively set for September, 1990. The Commit-
tee is working in close cooperation with the Committee on the Bicen-
tennial of the Constitution.

               COMMllTEE ON 'THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

           The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it has fixed
 its priority attention squarely upon the forthcoming review by the Com-
 mission on Executive, Legislative, and Judicial Salaries of pay rates for
judges, the Congress, and Presidential appointees in the executive
branch. Under the Federal Salary Act of 1967, as amended (2 U.S.C.
351, et seq.), the Commission must report to the President by December
15 as to the results of its review and its recommendation of the appropri-
ate salary level for each office under its purview. The President then
submits to Congress in early January his recommendations with respect
to the exact rates of pay which he deems advisable for the covered
offices and positions. These recommendations become the lawful salary
rates for the affected positions unless both Houses of Congress enact a
joint resolution of disapproval (which would have to be signed into law by
the President) within the 30-day period commencing on the date when
the President's pay recommendations are transmitted to Congress. This
opportunity will mark the last occasion for meaningful salary reform
(other than on an annual cost-of-living basis, if and when allowed by
Congress), until 1993 at the earliest.

          The Committee has been active in focusirlg the attention of
White House officials on the judiciary's salary plight. Interested private
groups, including the Federal Judges Association, the American Bar
Association, the American College of Trial Lawyers, Common Cause, the
corporate legal counsel, and the National Conferences of Bankruptcy
Judges and of United States Magistrates, promise to be active in the
effort to achieve meaningful salary relief.
                                    80
                  COMMllTEE ON JUDICIAL ETHICS

         The Committee on Judicial Ethics reported that, as of June,
1988, the Committee had received 2,220 financial disclosure reports and
certifications for the calendar year 1987, including 981 reports and
certifications from judicial officers and 1,239 reports and certifications
from judicial employees.

             COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL IMPROVEMENTS

                             AUTOMATION

         A. The Committee on Judicial Improvements reported that it had
unanimously approved the Long Flange Plan* for ~utomationin the
United States Courts (1989 Update). In so doing, it reviewed the status
of automation in the courts and the uncertainty of the current budgetary
situation, and reaffirmed the following automation priorities:

    1. In order to eliminate the substantial maintenance costs
    for the judiciary's aging DEC-10 mainframe computers,
    systems that off-load applications from the DEC-10s will
    receive top priority for development and implementation.

    2. Recognizing that the Bankruptcy Court Automation
    Project (BANCAP) will be of inestimable value to the
    overburdened and paper-intensive bankruptcy courts, the
    second prioriiy is the implementation of BANCAP.

    3. Third in priority is implementation of other integrated
    case management (ICMS) systems in the appellate and
    district courts, and office automation to the extent funding is
    available. The data communications pilot project, and
    probation office automation follow.

In accordance with these priorities, the Committee selected courts for
implementation of the CIVIL, CRIMINAL, and BANCAP systems for the
fiscal year 1989 and early in the fiscal year 1990, resources permitting.

         B. In 1987, the Court Administration Committee approved a
comprehensive program to provide office automation at all levels of the
judiciary over a three-year period, at a cost of approximately
$120,000,000. Although the judiciary has sought funds to implement this

'Formerly Five-Year Plan for Automation in the United States Courts.
                                  81
program, Congress has not yet provided them. 'The judiciary remains
fully committed to the comprehensive office automation program.
However, until additional funding is forthcoming, in order to ensure that
the limited available resources are disbursed equitably, the Committee
adopted the following priorities for the emergency and scheduled
replacement of office automation equipment:

    1. Top priority for office automation equipment is the
       emergency replacement of word processing equipment in
       chambers that is certified by the judge to be failing and
       impossible to maintain  (a,  parts or service are unavail-
       able, or machine cannot be kept in operation).

    2. Any office automation funds available above the amount
       required for emergency replacement will be used to
       replace equipment for judges' secretaries on a machine-
       by-machine, court-by-court basis, starting with courts with
      the oldest average age of equipment in chambers.

    3. Any additional funds for office automation may be used
       to provide one personal computer to be shared by law
       clerks in chambers where no government-furnished
       personal computers are available for law clerks.

New judicial officers, and those qualifying for purchase of office automa-
tion equipment under these priorities, will receive allocations of $6,000 if
they have a single secretary, $10,000 if they have two secretaries, and
$16,000 if they have three secretaries. They may purchase IBM-AT
compatible personal computers from the judiciary-wide office automation
contract when it is awarded in the fiscal year 1989 or, alternatively, may
elect to purchase locally, so long as (a) applicable procurement statutes
and regulations are complied with, and (b) the equipment meets the
specifications set by the Committee. The $6,000, $10,000, and $16,000
allocations do not apply with respect to personal computers purchased
under the decentralized budgeting pilot program, the Eleventh Circuit's
program for management of financial resources, or the Peisonal Com-
puter Purchases with Personnel Lapses program (see "Budget
Decentralization", supra pp. 66-67).
                     RELEASE AND SALE OF COURT DATA

            The judiciary generates a large volume of data which is of
    considerable interest and value to the bar and litigants, to the media, to
    scholars and government officials, to commercial enterprises, and to the
    general public. The courts and the Administrative Office are frequently
    requested to release or sell court data to individuals and organizations
    outside the court family, including a growing volume of requests from
    credit agencies and other commercial organizations desiring bankruptcy
    case information for purposes of resale.

             On recommendation of the Commitlee, the Judicial Conference
    authorized an experimental program of electronic access for the public to
    court information in one or more district, bankruptcy, or appellate courts
    in which the experiment can be conducted at nominal cost, and
    delegated to the Committee the authority to establish access fees during
    the pendency of the program. Although existing law requires that fees
    collected in the experimental phase would have to be deposited into the
    United States Treasury, the fees charged for automated access services
    could defray a significant portion of the cost of providing such services,
    were the Congress to credit these fees to the judiciary's appropriations
    account in the future.

                     VIDEOTAPING COLlRT PROCEEDINGS

              Under 28 U.S.C. 753, district judges may voluntarily use a
    variety of methods for taking the record of court proceedings, subject to
    guidelines promulgated by the Judicial Conference. At the request of a
    court that it be allowed to experiment with videotaping as a means of
    taking the official record, the Judicial Conference authorized an ex-
    perimental program of videotaping court proceedings. Under the
    two-year experiment, which would include approximately six district
    courts (judges), in no more than two circuits, the courts of appeals would
    have to agree to accept as the official record on appeal a videotape in
    lieu of transcript or, in the alternative, the circuit must limit the production
    of transcript to be accepted on appeal to a very few pages. Participating
    judges would continue to utilize their present court reporting techniques
    (court reporter, electronic sound recording, etc.) during the experimental
I   program.

             The Conference designated the chair of the Committee on
    Judicial Improvements to seek approval of the Director of the Federal
    Judicial Center for the Judicial Center to design, conduct, and evaluate
    the experiment.
                                        83
              VIDEOCONFERENCING OF ARRAIGNMENTS
                   AND HABEAS CORPUS CASES

         The Committee reviewed two proposals for closed circuit
television communication between federal courts and local jails, and
recommended that the Judicial Conference authorize an experimental
videoconferencing program. The Conference authorized the experimen-
tal use of videoconferencing of initial appearances and arraignments
("not guilty" pleas only), and of prisoner civil rights and habeas corpus
cases.

        Although these programs will benefit the judiciary through
increased regulariiy and flexibility in court scheduling and reduced
security risks, they will also substantially reduce prisoner transportation
costs. Accordingly, the chair of the Committee on Judicial Improvements
will explore the availability of funds for implementation of the pilot
programs.

                   MISCELLANEOUS FEE SCHEDULES

        In order to remedy an inadvertent omission when the mis-
cellaneous fee schedules were comprehensively revised in 1987 (March
1987 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 11-17), the Conference added the follow-
ing language to the miscellaneous fee schedules approved pursuant to
28 U.S.C. 1913 (courts of appeals), 1914 (district courts), 1.926 (US.
Claims Court), and 1930 (bankruptcy courts):

       11. [or 12, 6, or 18, respectively] The court may charge
       and collect fees, commensurate with the cost of printing,
       for:copies of the local rules of court. The court may also
       distribute copies of the local rules without charge.

        The Conference also corrected the reference in the Language to
Clarify Reopened and Converted Bankruptcy Code Cases, which follows
the numbered items in the bankruptcy fee schedule, from 28 U.S.C.
                         -
1930(g to 28 U.S.C. 1930(a).

        TRAVEL REGLILATIONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

         In order to permit reimbursement of meal expenses incurred at a
judicial officer's official station, if the meals are incidental to the judicial
officer's attendance at, and necessary to full participation in, a meeting
of a committee of the Judicial Conference, the Conference approved the
following amendment to the travel regulations for justices and judges
                                          84
  (Vol. Ill, Chapter 15, section D.1 .a.(5) of the Guide to Judiciary Policies
  and Procedures) (underlined language to be inserted):

      (5) A judge who is invited to attend a Circuit Judicial
         Conference or Judicial Conference committee meeting
        which is being held in the city where that judge's official
         station is located may be reimbursed for meals if such
         meals are incidental to the meeting, provided that the
         attendance of the iudne at the meals is necessary to full
         participation in the-business of the conference or commit-
        tee meeting and that the judge is not free to partake
         meals elsewhere without being absent and missing
        essential formal discussions, lectures or speeches
        concerning the business of the conference or meeting.
         Reference to this paragraph D.1 .a.(5) on any voucher
        claiming such meals - will be considered - sufficient
        documentation that the judge has met the criteria for
        payment of this item of subsistence. Under no other
        circumstances may judges claim subsistence at their
        official station.

                      PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

            The Judicial Conference voted to support the designation of
  Watertown as a place of holding court for the Northern District of New
  York, and the deletion of Malone as a place of holding court for the same
  district. The Conference also agreed to support S. 2340 and H.R. 4552,
- 100th Congress, bills to amend 28 U.S.C. 89(b) and (c) to move three
  counties from the Southern District of Florida to the Middle Distrii of
  Florida.

                 COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOLIRCES

                        ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS

          The Judicial Conference reviewed the results of the 1988
 biennial survey of judgeship needs conducted by the Committee on
 Judicial Resources, and its predecessor Subcommittee on Judicial
 Statistics, and voted to recommend the creation of 14 additional
 judgeships in the United States courts of appeals, and 37 additional
 permanent judgeships and 22 additional temporary judgeships in the
 United States district courts. The Conference notes that the Congress
 has not as yet acted on the Conference recommendations for additional
judgeships resulting from the 1986 biennial survey. The recommenda-
tions which follow include all of the judgeships recommended by the
Judicial Conference in 1986 for the courts of appeals. The recommen-
dations for the district courts include 49 positions recommended by the
Judicial Conference in 1986, but exclude 7 positions recommended in
1986 because the courts' recent workloads no longer support the
positions or the courts have withdrawn their requests. The Conference
also recommends that four positions presently authorized to serve more
than one district be converted to serve a single district, that one position
authorized to serve three districts be converted to serve two districts,
and that six temporary judgeships be made permanent.

        The Conference voted to recommend the creation of additional
judgeship positions in the following United States courts of appeals:

       Third Circuit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2
       Fourth Circuit. ..........................                              4
       Fifth Circuit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
       Eighth Circuit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2'
       Tenth Circuit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
       Eleventh Circuit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3
                                                                               -
       TOTAL.      ..............................                             14         *

        The Conference also voted to recommend the creation of
additional permanent and temporary judgeships in the following United
States district courts:

First Circuit:

       Massachusetts         .......................                          1 tlp'+l
                                                                               temp.

Second Circuit:

       Connecticut ..........................                                 2
       New York (N). ............... . . . . . . . .   ;                      1 temp.
       New York (E). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1
       New Yo& (S). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
       NewYork(W) ........................                                   '1Vp-

'Existing temporary position to be made permanent.
Third Circuit:

       NewJersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3
       Pennsylvania (E) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3 + 1 temp.
       Virgin Islands. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1

Fourth Circuit:

       Maryland.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1 temp.
       Virginia (E). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1 temp.

Fifth Circuit:

       Louisiana (M). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1 temp.
       Louisiana (W) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
       Mississippi (S) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
       Texas (E). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1 temp.
       Texas (S). . . . . . . . . . ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      3
       Texas(W) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1

Sixth Circuit:

       Michigan (W) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1 temp.
       Ohio (N). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1 t/p + 1 temp.
       Ohio (S). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1 + 1 temp.
       Tennessee (E). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1
       Tennessee (M) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1 temp.

Seventh Circuit:

       Illinois (N) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1 + 1 t/p
       Illinois (C) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1 temp.
       Illinois (S). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1 temp.
       Indiana (N). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1 VP

Eighth Circuit:

       Arkansas (E) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2 rlsingle
                                                                               district'
       Arkansas(W). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1
       Iowa (N). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1 rlsingle
                                                                                 district

*Existing roving position between judicial districts to be redesignated.
       Iowa (S). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
       Missouri (E) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1 + 1 temp.
       Nebraska.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1 temp.

Ninth Circuit:

       California (N) .........................                                2
       California (E) .........................                                1 temp.
       California (C) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6
       Hawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1 temp.
       Nevada .............................                                    1 temp.
       Oregon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
       Washington (W). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1 VP

Tenth Circuit:

      Kansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1 temp.
      New Mexico. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1
      Oklahoma (N) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
      Oklahoma (W) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             2 + 1 temp.+1
                                                                               r/ single
                                                                               district + 1
                                                                               rldual district

Eleventh Circuit:

      Alabama (N) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1 temp.
      Florida (M). ..........................                                  1 + 1 temp.'

TOTAL.    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .; . . . .   37 + 22 temp. +
                                                                               6 temps. to be
                                                                               made perma-
                                                                               nent + 5 rovers
                                                                               to be
                                                                               redesignated.

'If, prior to enactment of judgeship legislation, the Congress should
transfer three counties from the Southern to the Middle District of
Florida, the recommendation would be for two additional permanent
judgeships for the Middle District of Florida.
         If the'Congress were to eliminate diversity of citizenship jurisdic-
tion, the request for district judgeships would be reduced from 59 (37
permanent and 22 temporary) to 13 (two permanent and 11 temporary).

               FISCAL YEAR 1990 BUDGET REQUESTS
                  FOR SLIPPORTING PERSONNEL

  .     The Judicial Conference reviewed requests for fiscal year 1990
positions for circuit executives' staffs, for staff attorney offices, and for
the national court library system, and took the following actions (subject
to the availability of resources):

       1. Agreed to the conversion of 12 temporary JSP-11
          telecommunications coordinators in the circuit execu-
         tives' offices to permanent positions, one in each
         circuit.

       2. Approved an additional secretarial position for the
          circuit executives in the First and 'Third Circuits.

       3. Approved the addition of two attorneys in excess of
          the one-to-one ratio of staff attorneys to judgeships, to
          enable the Tenth Circuit to staff a preargument
          conference program. An additional secretarial position
         was also approved.

      4. Approved 38 additional positions (24 at JSP-9 and 14
         at JSP-5) for the national court library system.

                  ADDITIONAL COURT REPORTERS

          The Conference approved two additional court reporter posi-
tions, one each in the Western District of New York and the Northern
District of Texas.

         FEDERAL EMPLOYEE SALARY OFFSET PROGRAM

         The Conference was informed that the President's Council on
Integrity and Efficiency had asked for the cooperation of the judiciary in
identifying employees delinquenl with respect to federally-insured loans
and other debts (primarily student loans). Under the Debt Collection Act
of 1982 (Public Law 97-365), the judiciary has procedures for offsetting
the salaries of employees delinquent in debts covered by the Ad. The
Conference agreed to the request.

          DEFERRAL OF REPAYMENT OF STUDENT LOANS

         Observing that initial salary offers for top law school graduates
seem to be increasing yearly, the Conference endorsed a proposal to
recommend that Congress amend 20 U.S.C. 1077(a)(2)(C) to include
judicial law clerks as one of the occupations for.which, during service,
repayment of the principal on a federally-insured educational loan is
waived and only the interest is paid.

             JUDICIARY SALARY PLAN MODIFICATIONS

       On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
approved the following modifications to the Judiciary Salary Plan:

       1. Reclassificationof financial administrators from
         JSP-11 to JSP-12*, financial assistants from JSP-7 to
         JSP-8, property & procurement administrators from
         JSP-10 to JSP-11, property & procurement assistants
         from JSP-7 to JSP-8, personnel specialists from
         JSP-11 to JSP-12*, personnel assistants from JSP-7 to
         JSP-8, deputies in charge of divisional offices from
         JSP-13 to JSP-14*, and docket clerks presently at
         JSP-7 to JSPS.

      2. Reclassification of two positions as Central Violations
         Bureau (CVB) administrators, JSP-11, one in each of
         the two national CVB service centers in the Western
         District of Texas and the District of Colorado. CVB
         classifications at locations other. than at the two
         national centers would be discontinued.




'Target grade levels meeting specific criteria; not all positions
have the potential of being classified at this level.
       3. Establishment of a "Save Grade and Pay" plan for
          certain judiciary employees whose positions are
          abolished and who are qualified for, and have been
          selected for, lower graded positions in the judiciary.'

         RETIREMENT ANNUITIES FOR COURT REPORTERS

         By virtue of a recent amendment to title 5 of the United States
Code, as interpreted by the Office of Personnel Management, court
reporters who wish to receive a retirement annuity based upon 'Yull-time"
service (as opposed to part-time service and a resulting reduction in
annuity) must either (a) work a scheduled tour of duty in the courthouse
of 80 hours per pay period; or (b) maintain records of the actual hours
worked on federal business and work a minimum of 2,080 hours per
year on that business. In order that annuities not be reduced solely due
to the lack of a regularly scheduled tour of duty if the reporter is paid a
full salary as fixed by the Judicial Conference, the Conference recom-
mended a legislative change to 28 U.S.C. 753(e) to define court report-
ers as "full-time" employees for annuity purposes if they are paid full-time
salaries.




'On October 6, 1988, the Executive Committee agreed that the plan
would apply at this time only to estate administrators in the United States
bankruptcy courts. At its December, 1988 meeting, the Committee on
Judicial Resources will revisit the conditions and situations where the
policy should apply, and make appropriate recommendations to the
Conference in March, 1989.
           COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF 'THE
               FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

              SALARIES OF PART-TIME MAGISTRATES

         Observing that, effective October 1, 1988, the ceiling on the
salary of full-time magistrates is 92 percent of the salary of a district
judge, the Judicial Conference approved the following new salary
structure for part-time magistrates:


                Level                        Amount




 Magistrate positions in current salary level 2 ($2,134 per annum) will be
placed in new salary level 1 ($2,264 per annum); magistrate positions in
current salary levels 7, 8, 9, 10, and 13 ($9,722, $11,858, $13,992,
$16,127, and $24,070 per annum, respectively) will be placed in levels 5,
6, 7, 8, and 10 of the new salary structure ($10,293, $12,351, $14,410,
$16,468, and $24,702 per annum, respectively); magistrate positions in
current salary levels 3, 4, 5, 6, 11, and 12 ($3,201, $4,269, $5,335,
$7,588, $18,380, and $21,225 per annum, respectively) will receive a
two percent cost-of-living adjustment, subject to review of the positions
at future meetings of the Magistrates Committee; and the specific
recommendations as to magistrate positions in former levels 14, 15, and
16 ($27,390, $31,719, and $36,250 per annum, respectively), as set
forth in "Changes in Magistrate Positions", below, were adopted by the
Conference as noted below. These salary changes are effective
October 1, 1988, subject to the availability of funds.
                  CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

         Afler consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district
courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Conference approved
the following changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time and
part-time magistrate positions. Unless otherwise indicated, these
changes are lo be effective when appropriated funds are available.

                           SECOND CIRCUIT

New York, Northern:

        lncreased the salary of the part-lime magistrate position at
        Watertown from $24,070 to the new maximum salary of $41,170
        per annum.

                            THIRD CIRCUIT

Pennsylvania, Eastern:

        Authorized two additional full-time magistrate positions to serve
        the court at Philadelphia.

Pennsylvania, Middle:

1.      Continued the full-time magistrate position at Wilkes-Barre for an
        additional eight-year term; and

2.      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Scranton for an
        additional four-year term, with a realigned salary of $32,936 per
        annum.

Pennsylvania, Westem:

        Continued the part-time magistrate position at Johnstown for an
        additional four-year term with a realigned salary of $2,264 per
        annum.

Virgin Islands:

        lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Christiansted from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of
        $41,170 per annum.
                                 93
                           FOURTH CIRCUIT

Maryland:

1.      Continued the full-time magistrate position at Battimore which is
        due to expire on October 9, 1989, for an additional eight-year
        term; and

2.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Upper Marlboro from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of
        $41,170 per annum.

North Carolina, Eastern:

1.      Continued the full-time magistrate position at Raleigh for an
        additional eight-year term;

2.      Continued the authority of the clerk of court at Raleigh to
        perform magistrate duties for an additional four-year term at the
        currently authorized aggregate compensation of a clerk of a
        large district court (JSP-16); and

3.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Wilmington from $5,335 to $7,740 per annum.

South Carolina:

1.      Continued the full-time magistrate position at Columbia which is
        due to expire on May 15, 1989, for an additional eight-year term;
        and

2.      Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Florence at the current salary level, with a' realigned salary of
        $28,819 per annum.

Virginia, Eastern:

        Continued the part-time magistrate position at Richmond for an
        additional four-year term and increased the salary from $36,250
        to the new maximum salary of $41,170 per annum.
Virginia, Western:

        Continued the full-time magistrate positions at Roanoke and
        Charlottesville, which are due to expire on September 20, 1989,
        for additional eight-year terms.

West Virginia, Southern:

        lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Beckley/Bluefield from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of
        $41,170 per annum.

                            FIFTH CIRCUIT

Louisiana, Western:

        lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Lafayette (or Opelousas) from $36,250 to the new maximum
                       70 per annum.
        salary of $41 ,I

Texas, Southern:

1.      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Galveston for an
        additional four-year term and increased the salary from $36,250
        to the new maximum salary of $41,170 per annum; and

2.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        McAllen (or Brownsville) from $36,250 to the new maximum
        salary of $41,170 per annum.


Texas, Westem:

1.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at San
        Antonio from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of $41,170
        per annum; and

2.      Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Pecos at the current salary level, with a realigned salary of
        $32,936 per annum.
                             SIXTH CIRCUIT

Kentucky, Eastern:

         Increased,the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
         Covington from $7,588 to $12,351 per annum.

Kentucky, Western:

        lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Hopkinsville from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of
        $41,170 per annum.

Michigan, Eastern:

         Continued the full-time magistrate position at Detroit which is
         due to expire on May 18, 1989, for an additional eight-year term.

Michigan, Western:

         lncreased the salary of the part-time .magistrate position at
         Marquette from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of $41,170
         per annum.

                           SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Illinois, Northern:

         lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
         Rockford from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of $41,170
         per annum.

Illinois, Southern:

1.       Continued the full-time magistrate position at East St. Louis for
         an additional eight-year term; and


2.       Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at East St. Louis
         at the new maximum salary of $41,170 per annum.
Indiana, Northern:

1.      Continued the full-time magistrate position at Hammond for an
        additional eight-year term;

2.     Converted the part-time magistrate position at South Bend to
       full-time status;

3.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at South Bend for an
       additional four-year term, or until a full-time magistrate is
       appointed at that location; and

4.     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at South
       Bend from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of $41,170 per
       annum, pending conversion of the position to full-time status.

Indiana, Southern:

1.     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Indianapolis which
       is due to expire on September 30, 1989, for an additional
       eight-year term; and

2.     Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
       Terre Haute at the current salary level, with a' realigned salary of
       $5,442 per annum.

                           EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Arkansas, Eastern:

       Continued the pad-time magistrate position at Jonesboro for an
       additional four-year term with a realigned salary of $2,264 per
       annum.
Arkansas, Western:

       lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Hot
       Springs from $13,992 to $21,650 per annum.


Iowa, Southern:

1.     Converted the part-time magistrate position at Des Moines to
       full-time status; and

2.     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Des
       Moines from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of $41,170 per
       annum, pending conversion of the position to full-time status.

Minnesota:

       Continued the part-time magistrate position at St. Paul for an
       additional four-year term and increased the salary from $36,250
       to the new maximum salary of $41,170 per annum.

Missouri, Eastem:

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate position to be
       located at either Cape Girardeau or St. Louis; and

2.     Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Cape Girar-
       deau upon the filling of the new full-time magistrate position.

South Dakota:

1.     Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
       Rapid City at the current salary level, with a realigned salary of
       $37,053 per annum; and
fi
L.     Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
       Pierre at the current salary level, with a realigned salary of
       $28,819 per annum.
                              NINTH CIRCUIT

Alaska:

          lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
          Anchorage from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of $41,170
          per annum.

Arizona:

          Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
          Grand Canyon National Park at the current salary level, with a
          realigned salary of $28,819 per annum.

California, Northern:

7.        Continued the full-time magistrate position at San Francisco
          which is due to expire on September 6, 1990, for an additional
          eight-year term;

2.        Converted the part-time magistrate position at Monterey (or
          Salinas) to a full-time magistrate position at San Jose or
          Monterey;

<
".        Continued the part-time magistrate position at Monterey (or
          Salinas) at the current salary level, with a realigned salary of
          $32,936.per annum, for an additional four-year term, or until the
          appointment of the second full-time magistrate at San Jose; and

4.        Changed the location of the part-time magistrate position at
          Monterey (or Salinas) to Monterey (or San Jose).

California, Central:

          Continued the full-time magistrate position at Los Angeles which
          is due to expire on April 22, 1989, for an additional eight-year
          term.

California, Southem:

           Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at El
           Centro from $31,719 to $37,053 per annum.
Idaho:

         Continued the part-time magistrate position at Coeur d'Alene (or
         Moscow) for an additional four-year term with a realigned salary
         of $16,468 per annum.

Montana:

         Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Glasgow upon
         the expiration of the current term on March 31, 198s.

Oregon:

1.       Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at Medford at a
         salary of $5,442 per annum; and

2.       Continued the part-time magistrate position at Bend for an
         additional four-year term and increased the salary from $2,134
         to $3,265 per annum.

Washington, Western:

I.       Continued the full-time magistrate position at Seattle which is
         due to expire on September 30, 1989, for an additional eight-
         year term;

2.       Continued the full-time magistrate position at Tacoma for an
         additional eight-year term;

3.       Increased the salary of the pad-time magistrate position at
         Tacoma (or Mt. Rainier National Park) from $36,250 to the new
         maximum salary of $41,170 per annum; and

4.       Increased the salary of the pad-time magistrate position at
         Olympic National Park from $27,390 to $32,936 per annum.

                            TENTH CIRCUIT

Colorado:

1.       Increased the salary of the pad-time magistrate position at
         Grand Junction from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of
         $41,170 per annum; and
2.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Colorado Springs from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of
        $41,170 per annum.

Kansas:

        Continued the part-time magistrate position at Leavenworth for
        an additional four-year term with a realigned salary of $12,351
        per annum.

New Mexico:

        lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Las
        Cruces from $21,225 to $28,819 per annum.

Oklahoma, Western:                                                          .
1.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Lswton from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of $41,170 per
        annum; and

2.      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Oklahoma City for
        an additional four-year term with a realigned salary of $21,650
        per annum.

Utah:

1.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Salt
        Lake City from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of $41,170
        per annum; and

2.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Monticello (or Moab) from $2,134 to $4,354 per annum.

Wyoming:

        Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Worland upon
        the expiration of its current term in July, 1989.
                           ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Florida, Northern:

          Continued the part-time magistrate position at Panama City for
          an additional four-year term with a realigned salary of $12,351
      -   per annum.

Florida, Middle:

          Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Ft.
          Myers from $2,134 to $28,819 per annum.


Georgia, Northern:

          Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
          Rome from $36,250 to the new maximum salary of $41,170 per
          annum.

Georgia, Middle:

          Msintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
          Columbus at the current salary level, with a realigned salary of
          $37,053.

Georgia, Southern:

          Continued the full-time magistrate position at Augusta for an
          additional eight-year term.


                COMMllTEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES

        The Committee on Pacific Territories reported on its activities in
planning the Eighth South Pacific Judicial Conference, to be held on the
Island of Kauai, Hawaii, April 30 through May 3, 1989. The tentative
Conference theme is "Law and Fundamental Rights: A Pacific
Perspective".
     COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDLIRE

                             LOCAL RULES

          The Judicial Conference authorized the Committee on Rules of
Practice and Procedure to undertake a study of local rules of the district
courts. That study is under way. The Committee noted, however, that
there is no uniform numbering system for federal district court local rules.
Since there are many advantages of such a system,      a,  to help the bar
in locating rules applicable to a particular subject, and to ease the
incorporation of local rules into indexing services and the Westlaw and
LEXIS computer services, the Conference approved and urged each
district court to adopt a Uniform Numbering System for its local rules,
patterned upon the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

                          APPELLATE RLILES

        The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed amend-
ments to Rules 4 ("Appeals as of Right - When Taken"), 26
("Computation and Extension of Time"), and 27 ("Motions") of the
Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure, together with Committee Notes
explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference approved the
amendments for transmission to the Supreme Court for consideration,
with the recommendation that they be approved by the Court and
transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law.

                            CRIMINAL RULES

        The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed amend-
ments to Rules 11 ("Pleas"), 32.1 ("Revocation or Modification of
Probation"), and 40 ("Commitment to Another District") of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure, to add appropriate references to 'terms of
supervised release", a new type of sentence created by the Sentencing
Reform Act of 1984, 18 U.S.C. 3583. The proposed amendments were
accompanied by Committee Notes explaining their purpose and intent.
The Conference approved the amendments for transmission to the
Supreme Court for consideration, with the recommendation that they be
approved by the Court and transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law.
              COMMITTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES

                         COURTROOM SIZES

         Under the United States Courts Design Guide, approved by the
Judicial Conference in March, 1984 (Conf. Rpt.,
                                             . ~.p. 8),
                                                     . the construction of
courtrooms larger than specified standards requires Conference ap-
proval. In order to accommodate large numbers of multi-litiyant and
multi-defendant trials in the Southern District of New York, the Confer-
ence approved a request from the Judicial Council of the Second Circuit
to permit construction of courtrooms larger than the current standards in
a new courthouse in lower Manhattan.

                         DAY CARE CENTERS

        In response to the requests of several courts for funds to join
with other federal agencies in sharing the start-up costs and on-going
space costs for day care centers, the Conference approved the dis-
cretionary participation of courts in the Federal Day Care Center
Program, within available funding.

                             RESOLUTION

         Noting 50 years of public service by Judge Oren Harris, the
Judicial Conference adopted the following resolution:

   The Judicial Conference of the United States notes with appreciation,
respect and admiration fifty years of public service by

              THE HONORABLE OREN HARRIS

            Senior United States District Judge for the Eastern
        and Western Districts of Arkansas.

              In his five decades of dedicated service to his
       Country, Judge Harris served as prosecuting attorney
       for the Thirteenth Judicial District of the State of Arkan-
       sas from 1936-1940, and as a member of the United
       States House of Representatives from the Fourth District
       of Arkansas from 1941-1966. During his tenure in
       Congress, he served this Nation with great distinction as
       Chairman of the Interstate and Foreign Commerce
       Committee of the House of Representatives. There-
       after, he was appointed United States District Judge for
                                    104
       the Eastern and Western Districts of Arkansas on
       October 12, 1965, and entered on duty February 3,
       1966. Judge Harris served as Chief Judge for the
       Western District of Arkansas from February 3, 1967 to
       December 20, 1973. He served as the district judge
       representative to the Judicial Conference of the United
       States from the Eighth Circuit from 1971-1974; he was a
       member of the Executive Committee from 1972-1974;
       the Advisory Committee on Civil Rules irom 1971-1978;
       the Budget Committee from 1971-1983; and the Com-
       mittee on the Judicial Branch from 1979-1987. He
       eleaed senior status on February 3, 1976.

               Judge Harris has made innumerable contribu-
       tions to the public good, especially while a member of
       the United States Congress and on the federal bench.
       We are proud to acknowledge his long, distinguished
       career and ask that this Resolution be sent to him as a
       mark of our respect and esteem.

                    MEMORIAL RESOLUTIONS

       Noting the death of Judge Oscar H. Davis, the Conference
adopted the following resolution:

           The Judicial Conierence of the United States with
      great sadness notes the death of Circuit Judge Oscar H.
      Davis of the United States Court of Appeals for the
      Federal Circuit on June 19, 1988.

                Judge Davis succumbed to a long series of
      illnesses over the past several years. He sat with the
      court regularly until the month before his death, and,
      even in his many periods of hospitalization and con-
      valescence, continued to write judicial opinions. In
      addition to carrying a full caseload with the Federal
      Circuit and keeping his work current, he frequently sat
      as a visiting judge with the U. S. Courts of Appeals in
      Washington and New York. He was recently honored by
      the Federal Circuit Bar Association on the occasion of
      the fiftieth anniversary of his admission to the bar.

            Judge Davis was nominated by President
      Kennedy for the Court of Claims in 1962, and he
                             105
      continued in office as a circuit judge when the Federal
       Circuit was created in 1982. He served in the Solicitor
      General's office from 1949 until his elevation to the
      bench, and as Acting Solicitor General in 1953 and
       1956. He argued 45 cases in the Supreme Court and
      -wascounsel in 111 others.

               Judge Davis was a graduate of Harvard College
       and Columbia University School of Law. He also was in
       private practice for several years, was an attorney in the
       Claims Division of the Department of Justice, and served
       as a captain in the Army Air Corps from 1942-46.

               The members of the Judicial Conference of the
       United States convey their deepest sympathy to Judge
       Davis' survivors and request that this resolution be sent
       to them in recognition of our profound respect and
       abiding esteem


       Noting the death of Judge J. Skelly Wright, the Conference
adopted the following resolution:

            With deep sadness, the United States Judicial
      Conference notes the death of Judge J. Skelly Wright on
      August 6, 1988. Judge Wright served on the United
      States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana
      from 1948-1962, and on the United States Court of
      Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit from 1962 to
      1987, serving as its Chief Judge from 1978 to 1981. He
      was also a member of the Temporary Emergency Court
      of Appeals from 1981 to 1987, and its Chief Judge from
      1982 to 1987.

                Judge Wright's career spanned half a century of
      domestic turbulence and change. A graduate of Loyola
      University Law School in New Orleans, Louisiana, he
      practiced law in his home town for fifteen years before
      becoming United States Attorney for the Eastern District
  a   of Louisiana. Appointed by President Truman to the
      United States District Court, he won a national reputa-
      tion in the early 1960s for his firm implementation of the
      United Mates Supreme Court's desegregation deci-
      sions, carried out in the face of an unparalleled cam-
                                   106
paign of personal harassmeni and abuse. On the Circuit
bench in the District of Columbia, he wrote nearly 1,0012
opinions, many involving the most fundamental issues of
the time, each one reflecting his jewel-bright mind, his
forthrightness, his intense preoccupation with individual
justice and his boundless humanity. Never in his long
judicial career did he hesitate to confront and resolve
difficult questions of law or theory when necessary to
assure fairness and equal protection of the law. The
lowliest citizen, the weak and powerless, were his
special constituency. Judge Wright's combination of
careful scholarship and courageous determination to
make the law a working force in the lives of ordinary
people placed him in the ranks of premier jurists of our
country. He decided landmark cases involving the legal
 rights of students consigned to educational Iracks" in
 urban ghetto schools, of exploited consumers and poor
tenants facing eviction, of comatose patients whose
 relatives would deny them blood transfusions, along with
the most complex administrative cases that are the daily
fare of the District of Columbia Circuit. He was well
 known as a fast and proficient opinion wriier--he never
 kept his colleagues or litigants waiting. During all his
 years on the Court, he wrote and lectured at law
 schools--his wise humanity a continuous delight and
 illumination to generations of students, his own opinions
 gracing the casebooks they studied.

        Judge Wright was an inspiring colleague,
defying pomposity or arrogance, insisting always on
bringing us back to the problem at hand, to the plight of
the real people in the case awaiting our verdict. A
modest man, he was in Justice Brennan's words, "more
embarrassed than happy with praise." Yet, in his work,
he exhibited raw courage of a kind that made him a
lustrous adornment to the federal bench. He will be
sorely missed.

        The members of the Judicial Conference convey
their sympathies to Judge Wright's widow, Helen Wright,
to his son James Skelly Wright, Jr., and to his sisters
and brother, and ask that this resolution be sent to them
as a mark of our profound respect and affection for
Judge Wright.
                            107,
       Noting the death of Judge Luther M. Swygert, the Conference
adopted the following resolution:

          Senior Circuit Judge Luther M. Swygert of the United
       States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in
       Chicago, Illinois was born on February 7, 1905 in Miami
       County, Indiana, the son of lrvin and Katharine Hoover
       Swygert. He died March 16, 1988 after serving as a
       federal judge for 45 years.

               He was educated in a one-room country school
       for the first five grades. Judge Swygert attended the
       University of Notre Dame and graduated magna cum
       laude from its law school in 1927. He was admitted to
       the lndiana Bar and practiced law in Michigan City and
       Hammond, lndiana for four years. He described those
       early years as extremely difficult, saying that he was
       broke and nearly starving host of the time. In 1931, he
       was appointed deputy prosecuting attorney of Lake
       County, Indiana.

                 Soon thereafter, he married Mildred Kercher and
       they became the parents of two children, Robert, who
       died at age 13, and Michael, now a distinguished legal
       scholar, author and professor of law at Stetson Univer-
       sity in St. Petersburg, Florida. In 1969, Judge Swygert's
       first wife died, and he married Mrs. Gertrude Pancoe.

                 In 1934, Judge Swygert became an Assistant
       United States Attorney for the Northern District of
        Indiana, which office he held until 1943 when President
       Franklin D. Roosevett nominated him as a United States
       District Judge !or the Northern District of Indiana. He
       was the first Democrat appointed to the federal bench
       from lndiana since the Civil War. He served as chief
       district judge until 1961 when President John F. Ken-
       nedy nominated him to the United States Court of
       Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Judge Swygert served
       as its chief judge from 1970 to 1975. He became senior
       circuit judge in July 1981, but continued to serve the
       Seventh Circuit as well as other courts of appeals until
       he became ill in 1987.
                                   108
        Over the years, Judge Swygert served on
various committees of the Judicial Conference of the
 United States, including: the Committee on Uniform
Admissions to District Courts and Courts of Appeals, the
Committee to Study and Consider the Problem of Venue
and Jurisdiction of the District Courts, the Committee on
the Revision of the Laws, the Committee on Habeas
Corpus and the Subcommittee on Federal Jurisdiction.
He was elected to the Judicial Conference as the
Seventh Circuit's District Judge Representative in 1961
and also served as Circuit Chief Judge Representative
from 1970 to 1975.

        Throughout his career, Judge Swygert was
known for his strong, ably expressed views in support of
individual civil rights. He came from a liberal family and
was proud to consider himself a liberal.

        He was an enthusiastic and active alumnus of
his college and law school, the University of Notre
Dame, and served on its law school faculty as an
adjunct professor. He also served as a member of its
Alumni Board of Directors and on the Board of Visitors
of the Valparaiso University School of Law. In addition,
he was a teacher for the National Institute for Trial
Advocacy and for the Department of Justice. Judge
Swygert served as the first Judge-in-Residence at
Washington and Lee University School of Law. At that
time he lectured, researched and wrote. In 1984, he
conducted an innovative seminar entitled "Language
and the Law" during the fall term of school at Valparaiso
University School of Law. Judge Swygert received
doctor of laws degrees from Valparaiso University in
1964, the University of Notre Dame in 1969 and Stetson
University School of Law in 1982.

        He was active in preserving the lndiana Dunes
along the shore of Lake Michigan, which culminated in
the establishment of the lndiana Dunes National
Seashore Park. He loved nature and enjoyed hiking in
the Dunes and other parks.

         Judge Swygert was an active innovator in
judicial administration. He was the first to provide
                          109
        written insiructicns to jurors to help them answer their
        own questions. Based on his experience in the United
        States Attorney's office and as a district judge, he
        championed a rule that required cases reversed for a
         new trial to be sent to a different trial judge unless the
        court of appeals or the lawyers representing all the
        parties wanted it retried by the original judge. Later, at
        his suggestion, the appellate panels were randomly
        selected. As circuit chief judge, he was always con-
        cerned about collegiality and promoting a spirit of judicial
        family. This included outings for his colleagues, wel-
        coming parties for new staff, and even playing Santa
        Claus for the Seventh Circuit family Christmas Party.

                Judge Swygert once commented that when he
        came to the Seventh Circuit in 1961, there were only
        about three hundred appeals filed a year, whereas
        during the following twenty-five years, the number
        increased eightfold. Concerning the problems spawned
        by such caseloads he said:

             I think judges ought to have a lot of time to reflect, to
        let things develop . . . anything to get the subconscious
        and the unconscious into operation. There is pressure
        that defeats that very process, and we are apt to get into
        a mechanical, routine way of thinking. I deplore it.

Concerning the work of judging, he also said:

        I think there is a similarity between the monastic kind of
        existence and judging. While judges can't be cloistered,
        there ought to be that kind of devotion and commitment
        to their jobs.

Concerning the work of the opinion wriier, he said:

        One thing that happens . . . is that once you start to write
        an opinion and get into it, sometimes you change your
        mind. I think the possibility of the wriier of the opinion
        changing his mind is high -- much higher than the other
        people in agreement.
              Judge Swygert once remarked that much of the
        happiness and lifelong satisfaction he had found in the
        legal profession derived from having encountered within
        it everyday so many stimulating minds and personalities.
        But Judge Swygert himself was indeed a superior
        example of those traits. He was a widely read, broadly
        eaucated, and genuinely cultured man. He was also
        one with abundant humor, compassion, and goodwill.
        We may well conclude by quoting Chief Judge William J.
        Bauer's statement when he announced Judge Swygert's
        death: "The bench has lost a tremendous man and the
        United States has lost a great jurist."

                     PRETERMISSION OF TERMS
                    OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS

        Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, the Conference approved the preter-
mission of terms of the following United States Courts of Appeals during
the calendar year 1989: the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit at
Asheville, North Carolina; the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit at
Los Angeles, California; and the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit at
Wichita, Kansas and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

                                FUNDING

        All of the foregoing recommendationswhich require the expendi-
ture of funds for implementation were approved by the Conference
subject to the availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the
Conference might establish for the use of available resources.

                 RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

         'The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters
considered at this session where.necessaryfor legislative or administra-
tive action.




October 24, 1988                  Chief Justice of the United Stat
                                  Presiding
