                 REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
             JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES


                                March 12, 1991


       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on March 12,
1991, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United States issued under
28 U.S.C. § 331. 'The Chief Justice presided, and the following members of the
Conference were present:

       First Circuit:

               Chief Judge Stephen G. Breyer
               Chief Judge Frank H. Freedman,
                      District of Massachusetts

       Second Circuit:

               Chief Judge James L. Oakes
               Chief Judge Charles L. Brieant,
                      Southern District of New York

       Third Circuit:

               Chief Judge Dolores K. Sloviter
               Chief Judge John F. Gerry,
                      District of New Jersey

       Fourth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Sam J. Ervin, Ill
               Judge Frank A. Kaufman,
                      District of Maryland
      Fifth Circuit:

              Chief Judge Charles Clark
              Chief Judge Barefoot Sanders,
                     Northern District of Texas

      Sixth Circuit:

              Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt
              Chief Judge Eugene E. Siler,
                     Eastern District of Kentucky

      Seventh Circuit:

              Judge Richard A. Posner'
              Judge Sarah Evans Barker,
                    Southern District of Indiana

       Eighth Circuit:

              Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
              Chief Judge Donald E. O'Brien
                     Northern District of Iowa

       Ninth Circuit:

              Chief Judge J. Clifford Wallace
              Chief Judge William D. Browning,
                     District of Arizona

       Tenth Circuit:

              Judge Monroe G. McKay2
              Chief Judge Earl E. O'Connor,
                     District of Kansas




   'Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge William J, Bauer,
who was unable to attend.


    2Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge William J.
Holloway, who was unable to attend.
       Eleventh Circuit:

              Chief Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat
              Judge Anthony A. Alaimo,
                     Southern District of Georgia

       District of Columbia Circuit:

               Chief Judge Abner J. Mikva
               Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr.,
                      District of Columbia

       Federal Circuit:

               Chief Judge Helen W. Nies

       Court of International Trade:

               Chief Judge Edward D. Re

        Circuit Judges Richard S. Arnold and Deanell Reece Tacha; Senior
Circuit Judges Thomas M. Reavley and Otto R. Skopil, Jr.; District Judges
Wayne E. Alley, Robert C. Broomfield, I-loyd D. George, and Robert M. Parker;
and Senior District Judges Vincent L. Broderick and Walter T. McGovern
attended all or some of the sessions of the Conference. Circuit Executives
Vincent Flanagan (First Circuit), Steven Flanders (Second Circuit), John P.
Hehman Crhird Circuit), Samuel W. Phillips (Fourth Circuit), Lydia Comberrel
(Fifth Circuit), James A. Higgins (Sixth Circuit), Collins T. Fitzpatrick (Seventh
Circuit), June L. Boadwine (Eighth Circuit), Gregory B. Walters (Ninth Circuit),
Eugene J. Murret (Tenth Circuit), Norman E. Zoller (Eleventh Circuit), and Linda
Finkelstein (District of Columbia Circuit) were also present.

      The Attorney General of the United States, Dick Thornburgh, and
Congressman William J. Hughes, Chairman of the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property and Judicial Administration, addressed the
Conference on matters of mutual interest to the Department of Justice, the
Congress, and the Conference.

       L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, attended the sessions of the Conference, as did James E.
Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General Counsel; Arthur
White, Deputy Legislative and Public Affairs Officer; Karen K. Siegel, Chief, and
Wendy Jennis, Deputy Chief, Office of the Judicial Conference Secretariat; and
David A. Sellers, Public Information Officer. Judge William W Schwarzer and
Charles W. Nihan, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center,
also attended the sessions of the Conference, as did Lawrence H. Averill, Jr.,
Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice, and Judicial Fellows Anthony
Champagne, Robert Peck, and Mary Radford.

                REPORT OF TE1E:DIRECI'OR OF TEE
       ADMRUISTRATIVE OFFICE OF 'I'HJI UNlTED STATES COURTS

      The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, L.
Ralph Mecham, reported to the Judicial Conference on the activities of the
agency during 1990. He also submitted to the Conference a brief report
summarizing the workload of the federal judiciary during calendar year 1990.

                     JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

         Mr. Mecham reported that during the year ended December 31, 1990,
the number of cases appealed to the 12 regional courts of appeals rose two
percent to 40,982, due primarily to an 11 percent increase in criminal appeals
.from the U.S. district courts. Drug-related appeals, which accounted for 58
percent of all criminal appeals filed, increased nearly 15 percent over 1989.
Dispositions increased almost six percent this year, to an all-time high of 39,825,
but remained below the level of filings, resulting in a nearly four percent increase
in the pending caseload by year's end. Filings in the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit rose five percent to 1,474, primarily due to a 22 percent
increase in appeals from the Merit Systems Protection Board. Terminations were
virtually unchanged this year at 1,418 cases. Since filings outnumbered
terminations, the pending caseload rose by almost nine percent. Much of this
increase was due to appeals from the Court of Veterans Appeals and the
Department of Veterans Affairs.

       In the U.S. district courts, the number of civil filings declined again in
1990 to 211,626 cases, a drop of 13,703 (six percent) from 1989. The five
percent decline in total district court filings during the past year resulted primarily
from a continuing decline in two types of civil suits involving federal benefits:
the recovery of defaulted student loans and the recovery of overpayment of
veterans' benefits. (Actions to recover on defaulted student loans fell 47 percent
while actions to recover overpayment of veterans' benefits decreased 34
percent.) In addition, actions against the U.S. involving disallowance of Social
Security benefits have likewise continued to retreat from highs established in the
mid-1980s, declining 23 percent between 1989 and 1990. Another major factor
which contributed to the decline in civil filings was the 1989 legislation which
increased the jurisdictional amount in diversity cases from $10,000 to $50,000.
In 1990, diversity cases declined 14 percent.
       The drop in 1990 civil filings was paralleled by a decline in terminations.
The number of dispositions fell six percent to 212,497, sligt~tlyoutpacing filings.
This resulted in a drop of less than one percent in the pending caseload.

        Criminal filings rose one percent in 1990, from 47,779 in 1989 to 48,250
in 1990. Over the last five years, crirninal fili~igshave grown by 13 percent.
Drug cases continue to represent a large portion of total criminal filings,
comprising 26 percent. Most significant, however, is that drug filings decreased
five percent in 1990, the first decline since 1979. Much of the decrease is due
to a 43 percent decline in drug ,filings in the Southern District of Texas.
However, weapons and firearms filings rose 20 percent, and immigration cases
increased 15 percent. Dispositions of criminal cases increased by only one
percent this year to 44,756, up from 44,068 cases last year. With filings still
exceeding terminations, the pending caseload rose nearly 11 percent. On
December 31, 1990, there were 36,886 pending criminal cases involving 55,397
defendants.

       Bankruptcy filiqgs continued to increase to record levels in 1990, up 15
percent to 782,960 cases. The increase was primarily in non-business cases,
up 16 percent over last year and comprising 92 percent of the total filings.
While dispositions were up 11 percent to 658,889, the pending caseload rose
14 percent to an all-time high of 1,033,230 as of December 31, 1990.

        Mr. Mecham also reported that as of March 12, 1991, there were 23
vacancies among the 179 judgeship positions authorized for the courts of
appeals, 11 of which were in new positions created December 1, 1990. There
were 120 vacancies in the 649 positions authorized for the United States district
courts, 74 of which were in new positions. There was one vacancy on the Court
of International Trade.

                ACT-IVITIES OF THE ADMINISTRAl7VE OFFICE

        Mr. Mecham reported that the size of the Administrative Office staff
declined steadily relative to the growth of the judiciary during the 1980s, and
this trend is continuing in the 1990s. Administrative Office staff represented
about 3.5 percent of the total judiciary staff in 1982. This is expected to drop
to 2.4 percent in 1992, a 31 percent decrease. The ratio of court employees
serviced by the Administrative Office is projected to be 41 to 1 in 1992, up from
29 to 1 in 1982, an increase of 41 percent.

       An important legislative achievement in 1990 was enactment of the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts Personnel Act (Public Law 101-
474), which provides the Administrative Office with authority to develop its own
personnel system. The legislation will permit more flexibility in employee
development and enable employees to move with ease from the Administrative
Office to the courts and vice versa, thus greatly enhancing the agency's ability
to meet the future needs of the courts.

         Among the Administrative Office's top priorities in the 102nd Congress
will be persuading the Congress of the need to grant the judiciary independent
real property authorities (JCUS-SEP 89, p. 81). 'The provision of space and
facilities is the only administrative area in which the judiciary, a separate and
independent branch of government, is fully dependent on another branch of
government. Other legislative priorities include the creation of new bankruptcy
judgeships (e.n., infra p. lo), the enhancement of the Judicial Survivors1
Annuities System (infra p. 19)' and the repeal of Section 140 of Public Law 97-
92 so that judges will receive automatic annual cost-of-living adjustments (JCUS-
SEP 90, p. 62).

        The Judiciary Automation Fund has been a great boon to the
Administrative Office's efforts to automate the courts by providing a stable, multi-
year source of funding for the expansion, management, and use of automated
systems. Currently, more than 50 percent of the courts are operational on the
Integrated Case Management System (ICMS) electronic docketing and case
management systems, and approximately 14,000 personal computers have been
installed in the courts. Under the direction of the Judicial Conference Committee
on Automation and Technology, the focus for 1991 and beyond will be the
continuing installation and expansion of the ICMS systems in the courts, the
further acquisition of office automation equipment, and the installation of a
system-wide data communications network.

        In carrying out the policies of the Judicial Conference and in its
continuing support of the Conference and its committees, the Administrative
Office made significant strides in many other areas in 1990, including assisting
the Committee on Space and Facilities in the complete revision of judicial space
standards and the issuance of the U. S. Courts Design Guide               p. 32);
continued progress on the Judiciary Office Building, which is ahead of schedule
and under budget; issuance of a new program manual for bankruptcy clerks; the
creation of the Article Ill Judges Division; the continued decentralization of
administrative functions, including budget decentralization; the revision and
issuance of an updated Probation and Pretrial Services Manual; the continued
expansion of the federal public defenders program and the establishment of
additional death penalty resource centers; expansion of ,the electronic home
monitoring program; and the completion of six court operations and
administration surveys to assess the state of administrative operations in the
courts.
         Mr. Mecham concluded that the year ahead will present many challenges:
assisting the courts in implementing the Civil Justice Reform Act (Public Law
101-650), preparing for new judges, expanding automation in the courts, working
with the Congress to obtain the resources and legislative changes the judiciary
needs, revising work measurement formulas, providing increased training
opportunities, and continuing the decentralization of administrative activities. 'The
Adrrrirristrative Office's primary goal will continue to be, as it has always been,
to provide the courts with the highest level of service possible so that they can
accomplish their critical mission.

                     REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE
                        FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER
        The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Judge William W Schwarzer,
reported on highlights of the training programs being conducted by the Center.
These include the resumption of sentencing institutes, a new focus on science
and technology issues in litigation, and joint projects with various organizations
including the American Law lnstitute (ALI-ABA), Harvard University and the
American Bar Association, Georgetown University and George Mason University,
extending the reach of the Center's programs. For the first time, the Center is
co-sponsoring with the State Justice Institute a national conference on state-
federal judicial issues. The Center is also devoting increasing amounts of
resources to the training of supporting personnel at all levels.

      - The Center has in recent months made a major effort to assist the courts
in preparing to implement the Civil Justice Reform Act, developing material for
the guidance of chief judges and advisory groups and providing support to the
Judicial Conference Committee on Court Administration and Case Management.
The Act has led to a renewed emphasis on case management training for
judges and supporting personnel.

       The Research Division is completing a comprehensive study of the impact
of Rule 11 for the Advisory Committee on Civil Rules. It is also assisting the
Judicial Conference Committee on Criminal Law and Probation Administration
in developing recommendations for revision of the sentencing guidelines and of
mandatory minimum sentencing laws.

       The Center's new Publications Division recently published a Judicial
Writing Manual and has several other projects in preparation. It will shortly
publish, under the title Directions, the first issue of a serial journal reporting on
the work of the Center.

       The Center Board has authorized the establishment of a new Technology
Division which will focus on technology applications to support FJC activities
and the assessment of how new technologies can meet the needs of courts and
facilitate case management.

                                  ELECI'IONS

         The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
Federal Judicial Center, Judge Edward R. Becker of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit (for a term of four years to succeed Circuit Judge
J. Clifford Wallace), and Judge Martin L. C. Feldman of the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana (for a term of four years to succeed
District Judge William C. OIKelley).



                                  RESOLUTION

        In recognition of the outstanding work of Chairman Cynthia Holcomb
Hall and the members of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Fifth lnternational
Appellate Judges Conference in organizing and conducting this important
international event, the Executive Committee recommended, and the Conference
approved, adoption of the following resolution:

       The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
       appreciation, respect and admiration the

                   HONORABLE CYNTHIA HOLCOMB HALL
                    HONORABLE SHIRLEY ABRAHAMSON
                      HONORABLE WILLIAM J. BAUER
                     HONORABLE JAMES R. BROWNING
                   HONORABLE RUTH BADER GINSBURG
                      HONORABLE H. ROBERT MAYER
                    HONORABLE J. CLIFFORD WALLACE

       Chairman and members of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Fifth
       lnternational Appellate Judges Conference of 1990.

               Established in October, 1987, the Committee was
       instrumental in the planning and execution of the Fifth
       lnternational Appellate Judges Conference held in Washington,
       D. C. from September 11-14, 1990. The outstanding leadership
       of Judge Hall, and the dedication and hard work of the
       Committee members, resulted in a resoundingly successful
       lnternational Conference, hosting approximately 130 international
       delegates from 90 countries, the Chief Justices of 37 states, and
       the Judicial Conference of the United States. Despite the
       substantial time required to accomplish the task before them,
       Judge Hall and the Committee members continued to perform
       their regular judicial duties as Judges of their respective courts.

             Judge Hall and the members of the Committee have
       earned our deep respect and sincere gratitude for their
       commitment to the success of this important international event
       and our hearty congratulations for a job well done.

                              ETHICS REFORM ACT

        Section 319 of the Judicial lmprovements Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-
650) amended the Etl-~icsReform Act (5 U.S.C. App. 7, 5 502) to allow senior
judges to earn compensation for teaching without regard to the outside earned
income limitation applicable to active judges, but neglected to extend this
exemption to retired Supreme Court justices. On recommendation of the
Committee on the Judicial Branch, the Executive Committee voted to seek
legislation exempting retired Supreme Court justices' compensation for teaching
from the Ethics Reform Act's outside earned income limitation in the same
manner as now provided for senior judges.

               COMPOSITION          CIRCUIT JUDICIAL COUNCILS

         Another section of the Judicial lmprovements Act (5 323, P.L. 101-650)
amended 28 U.S.C. 5 332(a)(1) relating to the composition of judicial councils.
As amended, section 332(a)(1) specifies that circuit judicial councils shall consist
of the chief judge of the court of appeals plus an equal number, of circuit and
district judges.

        Although the section is inartfully drafted and technical amendments will
be sought, the General Counsel of the Administrative Office interpreted the
section as amended to provide that the number of judges on the judicial council
shall be established by majority vote of all circuit and district judges of the
circuit in regular active service, whereas the method of selection is (and has
been since 1981) left to the determination of each circuit. The Executive
Committee concurred in the General Counsel's interpretation, and chief circuit
judges were so advised.

                        GEOGRAPHIC PAY INCREASES
                        FOR SUPPOR'TING PERSONNEL

       Pursuant to his authority under the Federal Employees Pay Corr~parability
Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-509)' the President approved an eight percent
geographic pay increase, effective January 14, 1991, for nonsenior Executive
Service executive branch personnel in the consolidated metropolitan statistical
areas (CMSAs) in and around New York City, Los Angeles, and San Francisco.
To the extent that employees were already receiving special pay rates as
geographic pay adjustments, the President authorized only the amount
necessary to raise their pay to eight percent over the regular pay rate.

       After considering the President's action, and due to the importance of
the issue and its long-term impact, the Executive Committee voted to poll the
Conference on whether to implement geographic pay increases in the judiciary.

       By mail ballot, the Judicial Conference approved the Executive
Committee's recommendation that the Conference maintain parity with the
executive branch by adopting geographic pay increases of up to eight percent
for court support personnel (excluding court unit heads and those employees
whose salaries are established by law) in the following three consolidated
metropolitan statistical areas:

       New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island NY-NJ-CT CMSA;
       San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CA CMSA; and
       Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside, CA CMSA.

It was also agreed that before any geographic pay increases are adopted in
other areas, standards for approval, based upon the living costs of residents in
such areas and upon market comparability of private and other public sector
wage scales, and a process for application for such pay increases, will be
established and promulgated.

                   ADDITIONAL BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

       In order to respond to sharp and steady increases in bankruptcy filings,
the Executive Committee voted to recommend that Congress authorize one
additional bankruptcy judgeship in each of two districts, the District of South
Carolina and the Northern District of Georgia.

                  CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT COMPENSATION

        On recommendation of the Defender Services Committee, the Executive
Committee approved the immediate implementation of an alternative attorney
compensation rate under the Criminal Justice Act of $75 per hour for in- and
out-of-court time in United States v. Noriena, pending in the Southern District of
Florida. The unusual action was taken because of ,the complexity, high profile,
expected duration, and international implications of the Norieaa case.
                        ADMINISTRATIVE RULEMAKING

        In its April, 1990 report (pp. 148-149), the Federal Courts Study
Committee recornmended that 28 U.S.C. 5 331 should be amended to recognize
the authority of the Judicial Conference to issue administrative rules. Although
this item was initially identified by the Executive Committee as appropriate for
inclusion in non-controversial "housekeeping" legislation, a Conference member
subsequently suggested that the matter was not without controversy. A three-
judge subcommittee, chaired by Judge Sarah Barker, was appointed to study
the issue and recommend Conference action. At its September 1990 session
(JCUS-SEP 90, p. 62), the Conference postponed consideration, pending further
review by the Barker Subcommittee.

      With no presently pending proposals on this subject in the Congress,
nor any likely in the near future, the Barker Subcommittee and the Executive
Committee agreed that action on this matter should be deferred indefinitely.

                          MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

       The Executive Committee revised the jurisdictional statements for the
Committees on Automation and Technology, Codes of Conduct, Court
Administration and Case Management, Court and Judicial Security, Judicial
Resources, Long Range Planning, and the Review of Circuit Council Conduct
and Disability Orders; approved the request of the Director of the Administrative
Office that registry fund fees be recurring and extended to criminal cases;
approved a spending plan for the fiscal year 1991 for the "Salaries and
Expenses" appropriation and revised the plan to permit implementation of
geographic pay increases; approved resolutions of appreciation for
Congressman Robert W. Kastenmeier, former chairman of the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Administration of Justice,
and for Director Mecham and his Legislative Affairs staff; requested that the
Court and Judicial Security Committee examine how local court security
committees operate to effect1security in the courts, that the Bankruptcy
Committee consider possible rules or statutory changes to relieve bankruptcy
judges of burdensome signature requirements, and that the Administrative Office
Committee review reports and publications produced by the agency to ascertain
whether modifications to statutory or Conference requirements would be in
order; noted with approval a plan of the Director of the Administrative Office to
contract for an information resource management review of the judiciary's
automation program; agreed to assess Judicial Conference agendas in advance
and advise Conference attendees of the projected duration of Conference
sessions; imposed the requirement that all pilot programs that will form the
basis for the development of permanent programs with system-wide application
or impact should be approved by the Judicial Conference rather than by
individual committees; reconstituted the ~ e ~ i s l a t i Liaison
                                                           vi      Group to include
Conference committee chairmen or their designees; agreed that, with the
approval of the chairman, chief judges should be noti.lied of Conference
committee meetings in their districts; and disapproved a suggestion that the
Administrative Office deduct Federal Judges Association dues from the salaries
of judge members and remit the funds to the Association.

             CO-             ON l l m A      D     m     m OFFICE

      The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it had
considered two letters regarding Administrative Office programs, both of which
were satisfactorily resolved. The Committee received briefings and reviewed
Administrative Office activities, including the substantial use of advisory
committees of court personnel; status of decentralization efforts; automation
program update and the independent consultants' review of the program;
implementation efforts for new legislation, such as the Civil Justice Reform Act
and the Administrative Office Personnel Act; updates on administrative and
program division activities; and a report on evaluations and investigations,

            CO-             ON AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGY

                                  AUTOMATION

       On recommendation of the Committee on Automation and Technology,
the Judicial Conference approved the fiscal year 1991 update to the Lonq
Ranqe Plan for Automation in the U.S. Courts. This update, with a central
theme of building effective partnerships throughout the judiciary to support the
automation program, reemphasizes the importance of the JURIST concept to
achieving the objectives of the program. The goal of JURIST is to provide easy
and reliable access to fully integrated office automation, court automation, and
data communications through a single workstation.

                   COMMrITEE ON THE AD-TION
                      OF THEBANKRUPTCY SYf3Tl.m

           CRITERIA FOR ADDITIONAL BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

        On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
Bankruptcy System, the Conference approved case weights for bankruptcy
cases developed by the Federal Judicial Center and adopted the following
policy statement regarding requests for additional bankruptcy judgeships:

       In assessing a court's need for additional judicial resources, the
       Bankruptcy Committee will review a number of work load factors.
                                                                                             !I!
                                                                                             i$

                                                                                             is
                                                                                             181
                                                                                             IiJ
                                                                                             I[!.
                                                                                             I,!:

       The first factor considered will be the weighted caseload of the
       bankruptcy court, as derived from the Bankruptcy Judge Time
       Study. Also considered will be the nature and mix of the court's
                                                                                            i!!;
       caseload; historical caseload data and filing trends; geographic,                    i,!

       economic, and demographic factors in the district; the                               ,j
                                                                                            .   i! I




       effectiveness of case management\ efforts by the court; the
       availability of alternative solutions and resources for handling the
       court's work load; the impact that approval of requested additional                 '$;

                                                                                           if.;
       resources would have on the court's per judgeship caseload; and                     jl'
       any other pertinent factors.                                                       ii
                                                                                          :!Ii!,
       Generally, it is expected that, in addition to other judicial duties,
       a bankruptcy court should have a caseload of 1,500 annual case-
                                                                                          ;a
       related hours per judgeship to justify additional judicial resources.
       Requests for additional bankruptcy judgeships will be considered
       by the committee as part of a biennial, national survey process.
       The committee will consider judgeship requests on an ad hoc
       basis only in emergency situations where there is a clear and
       compelling need for immediate additional judicial resources.

       The Conference also approved an expedited procedure for conducting
the 1991 survey of bankruptcy judgeship needs. 'Thereafter, recommendations
for approval of bankruptcy judgeships will be presented at the.fall meeting of
the Judicial Conference in odd-numbered years.

                     colbnwmlm ON TIfE BI-
                             OF THE CONSTITUTION

        'The Committee on the Bicentennial of the,Constitution reported that it
had approved several projects commemorating the bicentennial of the Bill of
Rights, including a conference for the federal judiciary, a secondary education
project, and the provision of Bill of Rights plaques to major state libraries, to
libraries in the United States territories, and at major historical and national sites.
In addition, the Committee will sponsor a summer stipend program in honor of
the centennial of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act of 1891.



                          BUDGET DECENTRAI-IZATION

       'The Judicial Conference approved the expansion of the budget
decentralization pilot program to all courts on a Goluntary basis over a three-
year period beginning October 1, 1991, with the understanding that each court
must adopt procedures governing the budget approval and reprogramming
process prior to acceptance into the program, and that the program must
conform to existing law.

                  CO-             ON CODES OF CONDUCI'

       The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that, since its last report,
the Committee had received 33 written inquiries and issued 41 advisory
responses. The Chairman also responded to 39 telephone inquiries and other
Committee members responded to 74 inquiries that did not require a reference
to the Committee. The Committee also reported that it was preparing a
videotape on ethical problems that frequently confront judges, which will be
used as part of the Federal Judicial Center's orientation program for new
judges.

                        FEDERAL ETHICS LAW REFORM

         The Judicial Conference approved the Committee's recommendations
that (a) the "Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States Under
Title Ill of the Ethics Reform Act of 1989 Concerning Gifts" be amended to
authorize the Committee to render advisory opinions interpreting Title 1
                                                                       I1 of this
Act (5 U.S.C. §§ 7351 and 7353) and the regulations; and (b) the "Regulations
of the Judicial Conference of the United States Under Title VI of the Ethics
Reform Act of 1989 Concerning Outside Earned Income, Honoraria, and Outside
Employment" be amended to exclude part-time magistrate judges from the bar
on the receipt of honoraria. See JCUS-SEP 90, p. 64.

                     CONFLICT-OF-INTEREST RULES FOR
                      PART-TIME MAGISTRATE JUDGES

        The Conference amended Rule 7 of the "Conflict-of-Interest Rules for
Part-time Magistrate Judges" to prohibit part-time magistrate judges who are
designated to conduct civil consent trials under 28 U.S.C. 5 636(c) from
appearirlg as counsel in any civil or criminal case in the district to which he or
she is appointed.

                COMMrlTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATTON
                     AND CASE MANAGE2MENT
                         CIVIL JUSrlCE REFORM ACT

       In light of the enactment of the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990 (Public
Law 101-650), which incorporates many of the specific provisions of a 14-point
"Plan to Address Cost and Delay in Civil Litigation and to Improve Case
Management" adopted by the Conference in 1990 (see JCUS-SEP 90, p. 56),the
Conference approved a recommendation of the Committee on Court
Administration and Case Management to rescind the 14-point Plan, except as
already implemented. The Confekence also designated the following ten courts,
as recommended by the Committee, to serve as pilot districts pursuant to
§ 105(b) of the Civil Justice Reform Act: the Southern District of New York, the
District of Delaware, the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the Southern District
of Texas, the Western District of Tennessee, the Eastern District of Wisconsin,
the Southern District of California, the Western District of Oklahoma, the District
of Utah, and the Northern District of Georgia.

                                JURY MAlTERS

        Due to the generally positive results of a two-year experiment with a
one-step summoning and qualification procedure conducted by the
Administrative Office under the direction of the Committee, the Conference
agreed to seek permanent legislation to amend the Jury Selection and Service
Act (28 U.S.C. § 1878) to provide district courts the option of selecting jurors
either under the present two-step process or, subject to Judicial Conference
guidelines, with the use of a single procedure for qualifying and summoning
potential jurors. In addition, the Conference approved revisions of the A 0 Form
JS-12 ("Report on Operation of the Jury Selection Plan") to (a) provide
categories for reporting race distribution figures that correspond to the racial
categories appearing on the juror qualification questionnaire; (b) provide a
separate category to account for hispanic ethnicity; and (c) include comparisons
of jury wheel data against general population data from the Form JS-12(a).

        In response to a request for assistance from the Internal Revenue
Sewice, the Judicial Conference approved a Committee recommendation that all
forms of the juror qualification questionnaire be amended to include a request
for jurors voluntarily to provide their social security numbers. A Privacy Act
statement will also be included on the questionnaire.

       At its September 1990 session (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 86), the Judicial
Conference approved a recommendation of the former Committee on Judicial
Improvements to seek legislation to amend the Jury Selection and Sewice Act
to permit travel by aircraft within the contiguous 48 states by grand jurors when
weather conditions warrant. In anticipation of the enactment of such legislation,
the Conference approved guidelines proposed by the Committee on Court
Administration and Case Management for inclusion in Volume I, Chapter VI, Part
B of the Guide to Judiciarv Policies and Procedures, to take effect upon
enactment of legislation permitting such travel.
                             MISCELLANEOUS FEES

         In March, 1990 (JCUS-MAR 90, p. 21), the Judicial Conference approved
initial rates for public access to court electronic records (PACER) services in
district and bankruptcy courts. The Committee, which had been delegated
authority to set PACER fees (JCUS-MAR 89, pp. 19-20), advised the Conference
of its concern that performance of the financial functions associated with the
maintenance of PACER accounts could have a serious impact on clerks' offices.
Eventually, this billing function will be combined with the fine and ~estitution
functions to be performed by the National Fine Center; however, the Center will
not begin operation until later this year. In the interim, the Administrative Office
recommended, and the Committee approved, the use of a 900 number. In
addition, the $60 subscription fee, which included 60 minutes of usage, was
modified to a straight $1 per minute charge, to facilitate the 900 number billing
method.

            COMMlTEX ON COURT AND JUDICIAL SECURITY

                               OFF-SITE SECURITY

        The Committee on Court and Judicial Security reported on its
discussions with the Director of the U.S. Marshals Service concerning off-site
security of judicial officers. The Chairman has communicated his concerns
regarding off-site security directly to the Attorney General.

                       CO-       ON CRIMINAZ, LAW
                      AND PROBATION ADMINISTRATION

                           SENTENCING COMMISSION

      The Judicial Conference approved for submission to the United States
Sentencing Commission the 1990 Annual Report of the Judicial Conference of
the United States to the United States Sentencinq Commission, prepared in
accordance with 28 U.S.C. 5 994(0).

             QUALIFICA'TION STANDARDS FOR PROBATION AND
                      PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICERS

         Pursuant to a change in the mandatory retirement age for all law
enforcement officers eligible to retire under federal retirement provisions (Federal
Law Enforcement Pay Reform Act of 1990, Public Law 101-509), the Conference
approved a requirement that first-time candidates for the positions of probation
officer, pretrial services officer, probation officer assistant, and pretrial services
officer assistant must not have achieved their thirty-seventh birthday. 'This is a
modification to an earlier requirement which limited candidates to those who had
not achieved their thirty-fifth birthday (see JCUS-MAR 87, pp. 26-27).

              LEGISLATION TO AUTHORIZE PROBATION AND
            PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICERS TO CARRY FIREARMS

         At its last session (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 69), the Conference approved a
legislative proposal to authorize federal judges to carry firearms. At this session,
on recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law and Probation
Administration, the Judicial Conference approved draft legislation to authorize
United States probatibn and pretrial services officers, with the approval of their
courts, to carry weapons under regulations adopted by the Director of the
Administrative Office. Such legislation would (a) correct the situation in which
the security of probation and pretrial services officers is left to the vagaries of
state law; (b) remove the uncertainty of the authority of officers who must cross
state lines in the course of their duties; and (c) clarify the removability from state
court of a civil action arising out of the use of a firearm by an officer under 28
U.S.C. $ 1442.

                             SENTENCING INSTITUTE

       The Judicial Conference approved a Sentencing Institute for the judges
of the Ninth Circuit to be held in September, 1991, at a site to be determined,
subject to the approval of an agenda to be submitted to the Executive
Committee.

                   CO-             ON DEFENDER SERVICES

                         APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

       The Defender Services Committee reported that during the fiscal year
1990, approximately 71,600 persons were represented under the Criminal Justice
Act, compared to 69,954 persons in the fiscal year 1989, an increase of 2.4
percent. Of the 71,600 persons represented, approximately 51 .I percent
(36,600) were represented by federal public and community defender
organizations.

             BUDGET AND GRANT REQUESTS - FEDERAL PUBLIC
               AND COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

       Under its delegated authority .from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR
89, p. 16), the Committee approved supplemental funding requests for the
Federal Defender Organization for the District of Massachusetts for the fiscal
years 1991 and 1992 in the amounts of $133,400 and $71,800, respectively,
and for the Federal Public Defender Organization for the Western District of
Washington for the fiscal year 1991 in the amount of $61,000. The Committee
also approved funding for a new Federal Public Defender Orgar~izationfor the
Western District of New York for the fiscal years 1991 and 1992 in the amounts
of $510,202 and $660,630, respectively, and for a new Community Defender
Organization for the Eastern District of Tennessee in the fiscal years 1991 and
1992 in the amounts of $759,611 and $858,948, respectively.

                   CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT COMPENSATION

        The.Committee reported that alternative compensation rates of $75 per
hour for in- and out-of-court time have been established and implemented in
16 judicial districts, and that the alternative rates approved by the Conference
in September, 1990, for seven additional districts, and for the extension of
alternative rates which had previously been established for particular places of
holding court to all court locations in those districts, have not yet been
implemented, due to the unavailability of funds (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 79). - The
Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, the
establishment of alternative attorney compensation rates of $75 per hour for in-
and out-of-court time in three additional districts, the District of Massachusetts,
the Western District of Tennessee, and the Southern District of Florida, subject
to the availability of funds.



                   VENUE IN DIVERSITY JURISDICTION AND
                        FEDERAL QUESTION SUITS

        The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation by the Committee
on Federal-State Jurisdiction that legislation be sought to amend 28 U.S.C.
§ 1391(a) and (b), relating to venue in diversity and federal question cases. An
amendment is necessary to correct a drafting error which occurred when the
statute was changed pursuant to the Judicial Improvements Act of 1990 (Public
Law 101-650) and to align more closely the diversity venue provisions with the
venue provisions in federal question cases. 'The amendment would also correct
a typographical error in section 1391(b).

             CO-             ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

       The Committee on lntercircuit Assignments reported ,that during the
period August 1, 1990, through January 31, 1991, the Committee had
recommended 86 intercircuit assignments to be undertaken by 64 Article Ill
judges. Of this number, one was a retired Supreme Court justice, 17 were
senior circuit judges, six were active circuit judges, 24 were senior district
judges, eight were active district judges, one was a senior judge of the Court
of lnternational Trade, and seven were active judges of the Court of lnternational
Trade. For the first time, pursuant to a recent amendment to the Uniform Code
of Military Justice, the Chief Justice designated an Article Ill judge to perform
judicial duties in the United States Court of Military Appeals.


                  COMMWI%E ON THE INTEXNATIONAL
                APPELLATE JUDGES CONFERENCE OF 1990

      'The Committee on the lnternational Appellate Judges Conference of
1990 submitted its final report, and the Judicial Conference discharged the
Committee. See also "RESOLUTION", supra pp. 8-9.

                  COMMIITEX ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

                  JUDICIAL SURVIVORS' ANNUITIES SYSTEM

        'The Judicial Conference agreed to seek legislation to amend the Judicial
Survivors' Annuities System (JSAS) to (a) reduce the contribution rate of judicial
officers and provide a new opportunity for eligible judicial officers to elect JSAS
coverage; (b) provide a partial credit for judicial officers who contributed at the
previous, higher rate; (c) allow judicial officers to cease contributions upon the
death or divorce of a spouse; and (d) allow bankruptcy judges and magistrate
judges who leave office before age 65 to continue JSAS coverage and provide
credit for their subsequent contributions.

        The Conference also agreed to defer efforts to revise the JSAS annuity
computation method to base the annuity on the judicial officers' final salary
rather than on the "high three years" of salary.

        The Conference approved two proposed amendments to the general
provisions of title 5, United States Code, to be included in the package of JSAS
revisions forwarded to Congress, with the understanding that the provisions
should be deleted and deferred if they jeopardize enactment of the other
revisions. These provisions would extend federal health benefits coverage to
survivors of judicial officers whether or not the judicial officers had participated
in JSAS, and allow bankruptcy and magistrate judges to continue federal life
insurance coverage after retirement in a manner similar to Article Ill judges.
                           EVALUATION OF FEDERAL JUDGES

            The Conference requested that the Federal Judicial Center write a
    synopsis of the pilot judicial evaluation project in the Central District of Illinois,
    for circulation to the courts.

                          COMMlTmE ON J U D I C I A L ~ C S

           The Judicial Ethics Committee reported that as of January, 1991, it had
    received 2,078 financial disclosure reports and certifications for the calendar year
    1989, including 1,010 reports and certifications from judicial officers and 1,068
    reports and certifications from judicial employees.

                       COMMKJXiX ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES

                            ADDITIONAL COURT REPOR'TERS

            The Judicial Conference approved the establishment of one additional
    court reporter position for the District of New Jersey (at Camden), and one for
    the Western District of New York (at Buffalo). The Conference also approved a
    temporary court reporter position for the Southern District of Texas (at
    Galveston), with the proviso that the position will be made permanent with the
    first court reporter vacancy in Houston.

       FISCAL YEAR 1992 BUDGET REQUEST FOR SUPPORTING PERSONNEL

           The Conference authorized one JSP-9 automation support specialist
    position for the United States Claims Court, to be included in the judiciary's FY
    1992 budget.

                  COMMrrmE ON mADMINISTRATION OF m
                                                 ' E
                      FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSIEM
                  POSITIONS, SALARIES, AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR
                       UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGES

            Observing that the Judicial Conference has broad discretion in
    determining when surveys of magistrate judge positions should be conducted
    (see 28 U.S.C. 5 633(a)(1)), the Committee on the Administration of the Federal
    Magistrates System recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, the
,   following resolution changing the methodology of the survey process of
    magistrate judge resources:
                     Magistrate Judge Survey Methodology

        In light of twenty years' experience with the magistrate judge
        system, the Judicial Conference determines that surveys of
        magistrate judge positions prior to the expiration of the
        incumbents' terms are no longer necessary. Absent specific
        action, the Conference determines that all magistrate judge
        positions continue to be needed with no change in the salary or
        arrangements. In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 5 633(a)(1), the
        Conference deems it expedient to direct the Director of the
        Administrative Office periodically to prepare local surveys
        reviewing all magistrate judge resources in each district to
        determine whether there should be changes in the numbers,
        locations, salaries, or arrangements. Each district will be surveyed
        no less frequently than every four years, if the district is
        authorized part-time magistrate judge positions, or every five
        years, if the district is authorized only full-time magistrate judge
        positions. Specific Judicial Conference action will be required
        only in instances where new magistrate judge positions are
        authorized, a position is terminated, or where a change is required
        in the salary or arrangements.

                CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

       After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts,
and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Conference approved the following
changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrate
judge positions. Unless otherwise indicated, these'changes are to be effective
when appropriated funds are available.

                                  FIRST CIRCUIT

Maine

        Continued the authority of the clerk of court to perform magistrate
        duties for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
        additional compensation of $2,544 per annum.

Massachusetts

1.      Continued the full-time magistrate judge positior! at Boston which
        is due to expire on June 13, 1992, for an additional eight-year
        term;
2.    Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Springfield
      for an additional eight-year term; and

3.    Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Cape Cod
      National Seashore upon the expiration of the current term.

                            SECOND CIRCUIT

New York, Northern

      Discontinued the authority of the clerk of court to perform
      magistrate duties.

New York, Southern

1.    Continued the three full-time magistrate judge positions at New
      York City which are due to expire on February 29, March 11, and
      August 2, 1992, for additional eight-year terms; and

2.    Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at Newburgh
      for an additional four-year term and increased the salary of the
      position from $9,251 per annum to $13,878 per annum.

                              THIRD CIRCUIT

Pennsylvania, Eastern

1.    Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Allentown
      into a full-time position at Allentown or Philadelphia; and

2.    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position to
      serve the court at Philadelphia.

Pennsylvania, Middle

1.    Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Scranton to
      a full-time position; and

2.    Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at
      Stroudsburg upon the appointment of the full-time magistrate
      judge at Scranton.
Fennsylvania, Western

      lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Erie
      from $23,129 per annum to $46,258 per annum.

                              FOURTH CIRCUIT

North Carolina, Eastern

1.    Continued the authority of the clerk of court to perform magistrate
      duties for an additional four-year term; and

2.    lncreased the aggregate salary which the clerk of court receives
      for performing clerk and magistrate duties to one grade level
      above the grade prescribed for the clerk of court. (The previous
      ceilirrg was JSP-16.)

North Carolina, Western

      Corltinued the full-time magistrate judge position at Asheville for
      an additional eight-year term.

South Carolina

      lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
      Florence from $32,380 per annum to $46,258 per annum.

Viinia, Eastern

      Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Richmond for
      an additional eight-year term.

West Virginia, Southern

1.    Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Huntington
      for an additional eight-year term; and

2.    Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Beckley (or
      Bluefield) to a full-time position at Beckley or Bluefield.
                                FIFTH CIRCUIT

Louisiana, Western

1.    Continued the authority of the clerk of court to perform magistrate
      duties for an additional four-year term;

2.     lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
       Monroe from $2,544 per annum to $4,626 per annum; and

3.    Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Lafayette (or
      Opelousas) to a full-time position at Lafayette or Opelousas.

Mississippi, Northern

1.    Continued the authority of the clerk of court to perform magistrate
      duties for an additional four-year term; and

2.    lncreased the aggregate salary which the clerk of court receives
      for performing clerk and magistrate duties to one grade level
      above the grade prescribed for the clerk of court. (The previous
      ceiling was JSP-16.)

Mississippi, Southern

1.    Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Biloxi-Gulfport
      for an additional eight-year term;

2.    Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Jackson for
      an additional eight-year term; and

3.    Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Biloxi (or
      Gulfport or Jackson) for an additional eight-year term.

Texas, Eastern

1.    Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Beaumont
      which is due to expire on March 6, 1992, for an additional eight-
      year term; and

2.    Made no changes in the part-time magistrate judge positions at
      Sherman and Texarkana.
                                SIXTH CIRCUIT

Kentucky, Eastern

1.     Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Covington
       to a full-time position; and

2.     Declined to discontinue the part-time magistrate judge position
       at London effective upon the appointment of the full-time
       magistrate judge at Covington.

Kentucky, Western

1.     Continued the authority of the deputy clerk of court position at
       Louisville to perform magistrate duties for an additional four-year
       term; and

2.     Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at Owensboro
       for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
       of $13,878 per annum.

Tennessee,   Eastern

       Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Chattanooga
       for an additional eight-year term.

Tennessee, Western

       Denied the request to continue the part-time magistrate judge
       position at Jackson at the currently authorized salary of $27,755
       per annum until the end of the current term.

                              SEYENTH CIRCUIT

Illinois, Northern

1.     Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Chicago which
       is due to expire on December 13, 1992, for an additional eight-
       year term;

2.     Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Rockford
       into a full-time position; and
3.    Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at Rockford at
      the currently authorized salary of $46,258 per annum for an
      additional four-year term or until such time as the new full-time
      magistrate judge is appointed at that location, whichever occurs
      first.

Wisconsin, Western

1.    Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Madison for
      an additional eight-year term;

2.    Continued the authority of the clerk of court to perform magistrate
      duties at no additional compensation for an additional four-year
      term;

3.    Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Ashland,
      effective July 1, 1991; and

4.    Reinstated the part-time magistrate judge position at Eau Claire
      and continued the position for an additional four-year term at a
      salary of $2,544 per annum.

                              EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Arkansas, Western

      Made no change in the status of the part-time magistrate judge
      positions at Hot Springs, Harrison, and El Dorado.

Iowa, Southern

      Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Des Moines
      which is due to expire on February 28, 1992, for an additional
      eight-year term.

Minnesota

1.    Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at St. Paul to
      a full-time position; and

2.    Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Duluth for an
      additional eight-year term.
Missouri, Western

1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position to
         serve the court at Kansas City; and

2.       Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Sprirlgfield
         for an additional eight-year term.

                                  NINTH CIRCUIT

Alaska

1.       Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at Kodiak for
         an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
         $4,626 per annum;

2.       Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at Ketchikan
         for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
         of $2,544 per annum; and

3.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Nome.

Arizona

1.       Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Phoenix which
         is due to expire on January 30, 1992, for an additional eight-year
         term; and

2.       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
         Yuma from $23,129 per annum to $27,755 per annum.

California, Eastern

1.       Maintained the salary of the full-time magistrate judge position at
         Yosemite National Park at its present level of 70 percent of the
         maximum salary payable to a full-time magistrate judge;

2.       Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at Bishop for
         an additional four-year term and increased the salary from $7,740
         per annum to $9,251 per annum; and

3.       Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at Susanville
         for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
         of $6,938 per annum.
California, Southern

         Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at El Centro
         for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
         of $41,632 per annum.

Hawaii

         Continued the full-time magistrate judge 'position at Honolulu
         which is due to expire on January 8, 1992, for an additional eight-
         year term.



         Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Boise for an
         additional eight-year term.

Montana

1.       Authorized a full-time magistrate judge position to serve the court
         at Helena or Missoula;

2.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge positions at Helena,
         Missoula, Kalispell, Cut Bank and Butte effective upon the
         appointment of the full-time magistrate judge at Helena or
         Missoula; and

3.       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
         Wolf Point from $4,626 per annum to $37,007 per annum for a
         two-month period commencing April 1, 1991, with a return to the
         $4,626 per annum salary thereafter.

Washington, Eastern

         Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Yakima to
         a full-time position.

Washington, Western

1.       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Tacoma (or
         Mt. Rainier National Park) to a full-time position at Seattle or
         Tacoma; and
2.    Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position
      at Olympic National Park from $37,007 per annum to $9,251 per
      annum, effective upon the appointment of the new full-time
      magistrate judge at Seattle or Tacoma.

                               TENTH CIRCUIT

Colorado

1.    Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Colorado
      Springs to a full-time position at Colorado Springs or Pueblo or
      Denver, the location to be determined by the court;

2.    Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Rocky
      Mountain National Park at the expiration of the current term;

3.    Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Monte
      Vista;

4.    Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Craig (or
      Steamboat Springs); and

5.    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
      Durango from $16,191 per annum to $46,258 per annum for a
      four-month period commencing April 1, 1991, with a reduction to
      a salary of $23,129 per annum thereafter.

New Mexico
      Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at Clovis for
      an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
      $6,938 per annum.

Oklahoma, Eastern

1.    Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at McAlester
      for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
      of $6,938 per annum; and

2.    Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Hugo.

Wyoming

1.    Authorized a full-time magistrate judge position at Cheyenne;
2.    Discontinued the authority of the clerk of court to perform
      magistrate duties effective upon the appointment of the new full-
      time magistrate judge at Cheyenne;

3.    Increased the aggregate salary which the clerk of court receives
      for performing clerk and magistrate duties to one grade level
      above the grade prescribed for the clerk of court until such time
      as the clerk's authority to perform magistrate duties is
      discontinued by the appointment of the new full-time magistrate
      judge at Cheyenne (previous ceiling was JSP-16);

4.    Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at Jackson for
      an additional four-year term and incr,eased the salary from $9,251
      per annum to $11,564 per annum; and

5.    Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position
      at Lander from $27,755 per annum to $4,626 per annum, effective
      April 1, 1991.

                             ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Florida, Middle

      Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position to
      serve the court at Orlando.

Florida, Southern

       Changed the location of one of the two full-time magistrate judge
       positions authorized in March 1990 from Miami, to Miami or West
       Palm Beach.

Georgia, Northern

1.    Continued the full-time magistrate judge position at Atlanta which
      is due to expire on September 30, 1992, for an additional eight-
      year term;

2.    Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at Rome for
      an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
      $46,258 per annum; and
3.     Continued the part-time magistrate judge position at Gainesville
       for an additional four-year term and increased the salary of the
       position from $11,564 per annum to $13,878 per annum.

Georgia, Southern

       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Brunswick
       (or Waycross) to a full-time position.

               COMMlTrEx TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
                 CONDUCI' AND DISABEWYORDERS

        The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders
reported that it has no petitions for review presently pending, none having been
filed within the past year.

        COMlMFlTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

                               CRIMINAL RULES

       The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Conference proposed amendments to Rules 16(a) ("Discovery and Inspection"),
32(c) ("Sentence and Judgment"), 32.l(a) ("Revocation or Modification of
Probation or Supervised Release"), 35(b) and (c) ("Correction or Reduction of
Sentence"), 46(h) ("Release from Custody"), 54(a) ("Application and Exception1'),
and 58(b) and (d) ("Procedure for Misdemeanors and Other Petty Offenses") of
the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. The proposed amendments were
accompanied by Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The
Conference approved the amendments for transmission to the Supreme Court
for consideration, with the recommendation that they be approved by the Court
and transmitted to Congress pursuant to law.

                              EVIDENCE RULES

       The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed amendments to
Rules 404(b) ("Character Evidence not Admissible to Prove Conduct; Exceptions;
Other Crimes") and 1102 ("Amendments") of the Federal Rules of Evidence,
accompanied by Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The
Conference approved their transmission to the Supreme Court for consideration,
with the recommendation that they be approved by the Court and transmitted
to Congress pursuant to law.
                            BANKRUPTCY RULES

       The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed amendments to
Rules 5011(b) ("Withdrawal and Abstention from Hearing a Proceeding") and
9027(e) ("Removal") of the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure, accompanied
by Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference
approved their transmission to the Supreme Court for consideration, with the
recommendation that they be approved by the Court and transmitted to
Congress pursuant to law.

                                CIVIL RULES

        Upon being advised that the text and Committee note to a proposed
revision of Rule 16 that had been approved by the Advisory Committee on Civil
Rules were not actually included in the materials approved by the Judicial
Conference in September, 1990 (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 102), the Conference agreed
to recommend that the Supreme Court disregard at this time the proposed
revisions to Civil Rule 16 submitted to the Court after the September 1990
session of the Conference. The Advisory Committee on Civil Rules is now
considering other changes to Rule 16, and can conveniently include the
proposed 1990 revision in the version the Advisory Committee will be submitting
at a later time.

                PROCEDURES OF 'THE RULES COMMllTEES

       The Conference approved an amendment to paragraph 4(d) of the
Procedures for the Conduct of Business by the Judicial Conference Committees
on Rules of Practice and Procedure to permit the Committees to recommend
technical or conforming amendments to the Rules without public notice and
comment.

                 CO-            ON SPACE AND FACILJTIES
                  UNITED STATES COURTS DESIGN GUIDE

         In 1984 (JCUS-MAR 84, p. 8), the Judicial Conference approved the
United States Courts Desian Guide. At this session, on recommendation of the
Committee on Space and Facilities, the Judicial Conference approved the
judicial space standards set forth in a revised Desiqn Guide, with an amendment
to provide that any significant deviations from the guidelines must be approved
by the judicial council in each circuit, and subject to technical amendment by
the Committee on Space and Facilities for grammatical and formatting purposes.
             AD HOC CO-                ON ASBESTOS LITIGATION
        In September, 1990, the Chief Justice appointed an Ad Hoc Committee
on Asbestos Litigation to address the substantial number of asbestos personal
injury cases and the complex issues they present. Included on the Ad Hoc
Committee were the Chairmen of the Committees on Federal-State Jurisdiction,
Court Administration and Case Management, Intercircuit Assignments, and Civil
Rules, the Chairman of the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, and a
member of the Board of the Federal Judicial Center.

       After careful consideration, the Committee concluded that the large
volume of asbestos cases, both in federal and state courts, and the resulting
delays and costs, have resulted in a denial of justice and fundamental
unfairness to litigants. The Committee also concluded that no adequate
procedures presently exist to enable the justice system to deal with the unique
nature of asbestos cases.

       Accordingly, the Committee recommended, and the Conference agreed,
that Congress consider a national legislative scheme to come to grips with the
impending disaster relating to resolution of asbestos personal injury disputes,
with the objectives of achieving timely appropriate compensation of present and
future asbestos victims and of maximizing the prospects for the economic
survival and viability of the defendants. As a back-up position, the Committee
recommended, and the Conference agreed, that Congress consider legislation
expressly to authorize consolidation and collective trial of asbestos cases in
order to expedite disposition of cases in federal courts with heavy asbestos
personal injury caseloads. The Conference also voted to request its Standing
Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure to direct the Advisory Committee
on Civil Rules to study whether Rule 23, F.R.C.P., should be amended to
accommodate the demands of mass tort litigation.

         The Conference recognized that Administrative Office support is needed
by the federal courts to deal effectively with current and future asbestos claims.
The Director of the Administrative Office was directed to monitor asbestos
litigation in federal courts; collect materials and information relative to asbestos
injuries and litigation, including records of trials with copies of orders,
depositions, and documents that would be helpful to judges in asbestos trials;
supply information to judges on asbestos litigation issues when requested; and
make all reasonable efforts to supply additional funds and assistance to meet
unusual needs for clerical and administrative personnel created by proceedings
in asbestos cases.

       The Conference then discharged the Ad Hoc Committee, with the request
that the Executive Committee assign to another Conference committee the


                                        33
responsibility to oversee the development of the clearinghouse within the
Administrative Office to monitor asbestos litigation and legislation and to report
to the Conference on developments and proposed re me die^.^

                    AD HOC COMMKl3X ON CAMEXA!3
                          IN THE COURTROOM

        In its final report, the Ad Hoc Committee on Cameras in the Courtroom
advised the: Conference that it had selected for inclusion in the experimental
program permitting photographing, recording, and broadcasting of civil
proceedings in the federal courts (see JCUS-SEP 90, pp. 103-104), the Courts
of Appeals, for the Second and Ninth Circuits, the Southern District of Indiana,
the District of Massachusetts, the Eastern District of Michigan, the Southern
District of New York, the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and the Western
District of Washington.

              NATIONAL STATE-FEDERAL JUDICIAL COUNCIL

       The Judicial Conference approved recommendations from the National
State-Federal Judicial Council that the Council shall (a) be known as the
National Judicial Council of State and Federal Courts; (b) serve as a national
coordinator to encourage the establishment of local state-federal judicial councils
and strengthen existing councils; and (c) engage in educational projeets which
highlight issues of mutual interest to the state and federal courts. The Chief
Justice has appointed to the National Judicial Council Circuit Judges Peter T.
Fay and Patrick E. Higginbotham, and District Judges Morris S. Arnold and John
F. Grady.

                                 RESOLUTION

        The Judicial Conference adopted the following resolution in appreciation
of Judge John F. Nangle, former District Judge Representative from the Eighth
Circuit, as follows:

              'The Judicial Conference of the United States, meeting in
       Washington, D.C. on this 12th day of March, 1991, hereby
       resolves a special tribute to the:




     The Executive Committee subsequently assigned this responsibility jointly
to the Committees on Federal-State Jurisdiction and Court Administration and
Case Management, with the expectation that the Chairmen will appoint a joint
subcommittee on asbestos.
                 HONORABLE JOHN F. NANGLE

United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri,
hereby inscribed by the Judicial.Conference of the United States,
presided over by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, for Judge
Nangle's eighteen years of service to the judiciary.

       A skilled lawyer, Judge Nangle worked as an attorney
engaged in trial work and the general practice of law for over
twenty-four years. During that time, he served on numerous
committees of the local bar association. He also served as city
attorney for Brentwood on a part-time basis from 1953 to 1963,
and as special legal advisor for the St. Louis County Government
from 1963 to 1973, when he was appointed to the federal bench.

         In 1985, Judge Nangle was elected as the Eighth Circuit
District Judge Representative to the Judicial Conference of the
United States. He was reelected in 1986, and served until his
resignation in January, 1991.

       Judge Nangle also served as a member of the Judicial
Conference's Executive Committee from 1987 to 1991. His other
Judicial Conference assignments included the Committee on the
Operation of the Jury System from 1981 to 1987, and the
Committee to Study the Judicial Conference from 1986 to 1987.

        In June, 1990, Judge Nangle was appointed as Chairman
of the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, and in September,
1990, to the Ad Hoc Committee on Asbestos Litigation.

        Judge Nangle was also an energetic leader in the Eighth
Circuit, where he was Chief Judge of the Eastern District of
Missouri from 1983 to 1990. Simultaneous with his service on the
Judicial Conference, Judge Nangle served on the Eighth Circuit
Judicial Council as an ex officio member. On May 10, 1990,
Judge Nangle took senior status.

       Judge Nangle has distinguished himself in his years with
the United States Courts in his contributions to the Eastern District
of Missouri, the Eighth Circuit, and the Judicial Conference of the
United States. We recognize him today as a leader, a colleague,
and a friend.
                                    FUNDING

      All actions which require the expenditure of funds were approved by the
Conference subject to the availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities
the Conference.might establish for the use of available resources.



        The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters considered
at this session where necessary for legislative or administrati




                                             Chief Justice of the Unit
                                             Presiding

May 9, 1991
