                  REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
            JUDICIAL CONPERENCE OF THE UNlTED mATES


                            September 23-24, 1991


       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Asheville, North
Carolina, on September 23, 1991, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
United States issued under 28 U.S.C. ยง 331, and continued in session on
September 24. The Chief Justice presided, and the following members of the
Conference were present:

       First Circuit:

               Chief Judge Stephen G. Breyer
               Chief Judge Francis J. Boyle,
                      District of Rhode Island

       Second Circuit:

               Chief Judge James L. Oakes
               Chief Judge Charles L. Brieant,
                      Southern District of New York

       Third Circuit:

               Chief Judge Dolores K. Sloviter
               Chief Judge John F. Gerry,
                      District of New Jersey

       Fourth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Sam J. Ervin, Ill
               Judge W. Earl Britt,
                      Eastern District of North Carolina
  F i h Circuit:

          Chief Judge Charles Clark
          Chief Judge Barefoot Sanders,
                 Northern District of Texas

  Sixth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt
          Judge Edward H. Johnstone'
                 Western District of Kentucky

  Seventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge William J. Bauer
          Chief Judge Barbara B. Crabb,
                 Western District of Wisconsin

  Eighth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
          Chief Judge Donald E. O'Brien
                 Northern District of Iowa

  Ninth Circuit:

          Chief Judge J. Clifford Wallace
          Chief Judge William D. Browning,
                 District of Arizona

  Tenth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Monroe G. McKay
          Judge Richard P. Matsch,
                 District of Colorado

  Eleventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat
          Judge Anthony A. Alaimo,
                 Southern District of Georgia



'Designated by the Chief Justice.

                                    38
       District of Columbia Circuit:

               Chief Judge Abner J. Mikva
               Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr.,
                      District of Columbia

       Federal Circuit:

               Chief Judge Helen W. Nies

       Court of International Trade:

               Chief Judge (Acting) Gregory W. Carman

         Circuit Judges Richard S. Arnold, Levin H. Campbell, Edward Leaw,
Kenneth F. Ripple, Walter K. Stapleton, Deanell Reece Tacha, and Harlington
Wood, Jr.; Senior Circuit Judges Thomas M. Reavley and Otto R. Skopil, Jr.;
District Judges Wayne E. Alley, Sarah Evans Barker, Robert C. Broomfield, Julian
A. Cook, Jr., Gustave Diamond, Lloyd D. George, Wm. Terrell Hodges, Thomas
F. Hogan, Robert E..Keeton, Robert M. Parker, Sam C. Pointer, Jr., and Rya W.
Zobel; and Senior District Judges Vincent L. Broderick and Walter T. McGovern
attended all or some of the sessions of the Conference. Circuit Judge Edward
R. Becker; District Judges David D. Dowd, Jr., Diana E. Murphy, and Martin L.
C. Feldman; and Bankruptcy Judge Robert E. Ginsberg, members of the Federal
Judicial Center Board, attended a joint session of the Board and the
Conference. Circuit Executives Vincent Flanagan (First Circuit), Steven Flanders
(Second Circuit), John P. Hehman (Third Circuit), Samuel W. Phillips (Fourth
Circuit), Lydia Comberrel (Fifth Circuit), James A. Higgins (Sixth Circuit), Collins
T. Fitzpatrick (Seventh Circuit), June L. Boadwine (Eighth Circuit), Gregory 6.
Walters (Ninth Circuit), Eugene J. Murret (Tenth Circuit), Norman E. Zoller
(Eleventh Circuit), and Linda Finkelstein (District of Columbia Circuit) were also
present at Conference sessions.

       The Solicitor General of the United States, Kenneth Starr, addressed the
Conference on matters of mutual interest to the Department of Justice, the
Congress, and the Conference. Circuit Judge William W. Wilkins, Jr., Chairman
of the United States Sentencing Commission, briefed the Conference on issues
concerning the Sentencing Commission.

        L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, attended the sessions of the Conference, as did James E.
Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General Counsel; Robert E.
Feidler, Legislative and Public Affairs Officer; Karen K. Siegel, Judicial
Conference and Management Coordination Officer; Charles W. Nihan, Chief,
Long Range Planning Office; Wendy Jennis, Deputy Chief, Office of the Judicial
Conference Secretariat; and David A. Sellers, Public Information Officer. Judge
William W Schwarzer and Russell R. Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the
Federal Judicial Center, also attended the sessions of the Conference, as did
Robb Jones, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice.

         REPORT OF THE DIRECIYlR OF THE ADMNBIRATIVE
              0 m c E OF TBE UNITED S1:ATES COURTS

        The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
L. Ralph Mecham, presented to the Conference the Annual Reporr of the Director
for the year ended June 30, 1991. The Conference authorized the Director to
release the Annual Reporr immediately in preliminary form and to revise and
supplement the final printed edition.

                    JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

         Mr. Mecham reported that during 1991, total filings in the regional courts
of appeals rose three percent to a record high of 42,033. The overall increase
in appeals resulted in part from a five percent growth in criminal appeals from
the U.S. district courts. Two major factors contributed to this increase:
enactment of the Sentencing Guidelines which provide for appeals of convictions
as well as sentences imposed, and drug-related appeals, which comprised 56
percent of the total criminal appeals filed. Appeals of the decisions of the
district courts on state and federal prisoner petitions rose six percent, and
appeals of bankruptcy cases increased a record 15 percent. Administrative
agency cases, after a drop of 13 percent last year, increased seven percent in
1991. The courts of appeals disposed of 41,414 appeals in 1991, an increase
of eight percent; appeals terminated on the merits rose seven percent. During
1991, the pending caseload in the regional courts of appeals increased two
percent to 32,627, compared to an eight percent increase in 1990.

       Filings in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit increased one
percent to 1,484, attributable to cases from the recently-formed Court of
Veterans Appeals. Appeals disposed of in the Federal Circuit rose two percent
to 1,424 this year. Since filings outnumbered terminations, the pending caseload
rose by 60 cases or eight percent.

        In the US, district courts, civil filings, which have decreased in number
since 1988, declined again this past year to 207,742 cases, a drop of 10,137
(five percent) from 1990. Civil filings involving the United States decreased six
percent to 52,654 cases; private filings declined by four percent to 155,088. The
dip in U.S. government filings was mostly attributable to a 31 percent drop in
actions to recover defaulted student loans and a 26 percent decrease in actions
to recover overpayment of veterans' benefits. By contrast, actions against the
U.S. increased slightly to 25,090 filings. Both federal prisoner petitions (up three
percent)'and social securii cases (up four percent) contributed to this growth.
The most significant change in private civil filings was an 11 percent decrease
in diversity of citizenship cases, attributable to a significant decline in asbestos
cases, which fell 49 percent from 12,822 in 1990 to 6,539 in 1991. Diversity
filings excluding asbestos cases remained essentially stable in 1991 at 44,405,
suggesting that the initial impact of the May 1989 increase of the jurisdictional
amount in diversity cases from $10,000 to $50,000, may be abating. Civil cases
terminated remained stable in 1991 at 211,713 .cases. Since terminations
outnumbered filings by almost 4,000 cases, the pending caseload decreased by
two percent to 240,599.

        During 1991, criminal filings in the U.S. district courts declined for the first
time since 1980, dropping four percent to 47,035 cases (including transfers). In
contrast, the number of defendants charged increased slightly from 66,341 in
1990 to 66,556 in 1991. Drug cases (excluding transfers) decreased two percent
from 12,592 in 1990 to 12,400 in 1991, due primarily to a decline in drug filings
in the Southern District of Texas. Excluding Texas (Southern), drug filings
nationwide actually increased three percent (292 cases) in 1991, and weapons
and firearms filings increased 10 percent (to 2,975). Criminal cases terminated
decreased six percent to 41,569 in 1991. Since the number of filings
outnumbered terminations during 1991, the pending caseload rose 16 percent.
On June 30, 1991, there were 39,276 pending criminal cases involving 58,393
defendants in U.S. district courts.

        Bankruptcy filings rose 21 percent in 1991, to 880,399; terminations
increased nearly 16 percent over 1990, reaching 718,885 for the same period.
Because filings outpaced terminations, the number of pending petitions rose by
161,514 cases (17 percent) in 1991. The total pending caseload has now
reached 1,123,433 petitions. The growth in bankruptcy filings was a result of a
rapid rise in non-business filings, spurred primarily by 23 percent increases in
both Chapter 7 liquidation and Chapter 13 adjustment filings. Business filings
rose by a moderate five percent in 1991. Chapter 11 reorganizations had the
largest percentage increase of all business chapters, rising nearly 12 percent to
19,540 filings; Chapter 13 and Chapter 7 business filings increased five percent
and one percent, respectively. Chapter 12 family farmers filing business debt
adjustments remained constant at 1,358 cases in 1991.

         Mr. Mecham also reported that as of September 18, 1991, there were
21 vacancies among ,the 179 judgeship positions authorized for the United
States courts of appeals, 109 vacancies among the 649 positions authorized for
the United States district courts, and two vacancies on the United States Court
of International Trade.
                ACTIVITIES OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

        Mr. Mecham reported that since the mid-19801s,the budget and staff of
the Administrative Office have declined steadily relative to the growth of the
entire judiciary. For example, the Administrative Office's budget authority as a
percentage of the budget authority for the entire judiciary has declined from
three percent in 1984 to just over two percent today (excluding funding for
reimbursable court automation positions).

          The Administrative Office was reorganized in 1991 to make better use of
 its limited resources and to put additional emphasis on several critical areas.
These changes provide greater focus on fundamental financial activities as well
'as the increasingly complex personnel and facilities areas. The reorganization
 resulted in the creation of a new Assistant Director position for Court Programs,
 providing enhanced management attention, guidance, and support in this criiical
 area. In addition, three new offices were formed to (a) provide support to the
 Federal Rules committees; (b) staff the Committee on Long Range Planning; and
 (c) assess the resource impact of legislative and executive branch proposals on
 the judiciary.

        The Administrative Office continues to make the decentralization of
administrative functions to the courts a high priority. To date, court managers
have been delegated authority in 48 management areas, and decentralization
projects are currently underway or planned in an additional 15 areas. Twenty
courts have been trained and have irr~plementedbudget decentralization in the
fiscal year 1992, and all interested courts are expected to begin implementation
by the fiscal year 1994.

        The A 0 contracted with three consultants to review the federal judiciary
automation program. This review provided a broad management-level
assessment of the goals, strategies, and future direction of automation in the
judiciary. The final report emphasized that the users should have more
involvement in the design process and also recommended changes in the way
the judiciary plans, budgets, and manages its automation activities. Procedures
for implementing the report's recommendations are being developed.

       During 1991, considerable staff effort and resources were devoted to
developing plans for implementing the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990. Also in
1991, the Administrative Office began to establish a new A0 personnel system.
In support of the Judicial Conference and its committees, and to carry out
Conference policies, the A0 completed many other projects, including
developing a new staffing formula for probation and pretrial services offices,
designing a new method of allocating positions to staff attorneys' offices in the
United States Courts of Appeals, awarding a contract for the judiciary's data
communications network and beginning the first phase of implementation,
designing an automated case assignment system for district and bankruptcy
courts to facilitate random assignment of judges to cases, issuing a new
Bankruptcy Clerks Manual and revising the Court Reporters Manual, conducting
an extensive review of Criminal Justice Act (CJA) panel attorney compensation
rates, concluding a report on the mandatory drug testing program required by
the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, and completing the Court Operations and
Administration Surveys assessing the state of administrative operations in the
courts.

        A major goal for 1992 will be the strengthening of the judiciary's space
and facilities program. Tremendous progress has already been made with the
publication of a new United States Courts Design Guide and the completion of
long-range facilities plans by a third of the courts. Support mechanisms have
been created to allow individual courts to take a much more aggressive role in
managing their space and facilities programs. Currently, the judiciary is fully
dependent on the executive branch for the provision of space and facilities.
Consequently, a top legislative priority is enactment of legislation giving the
judiciary independent real property authorities. With the need for major
courthouse construction over the next decade, it is critical that the judiciary be
able to set its own priorities and control the planning and funding of its projects.

        Other legislative priorities for the coming year include reforming the
Judicial Survivors' Annuities System (JSAS), including lowering the contribution
rate for active, senior, and recalled judges from five to'one percent; securing
revisions to the proposed Violent Crime Control Act; obtaining new bankruptcy
judgeships; and pursuing the repeal of Section 140 of Public Law 97-92 so that
judges will receive automatic annual cost-of-living increases.

                    REPORT OF THE DIREXXOR OF 'IIIE
                       FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER

       The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Judge William W Schwarzer,
reported on a reorganization of the Center approved by the Board last May, and
on various educational and research projects of the Center. The Division of
Continuing Education and Training was divided into a Judicial Education
Division, for the education of judicial officers and staff attorneys, and a Court
Education Division, for the education of the personnel of clerks' offices,
probation and pretrial services officers, and the other supporting personnel of
the judicial branch. Furthermore, the Publications Division has been expanded
to a Publications and Media Division, absorbing most of the functions of the
since-abolished Special Educational Services Division, except the Center's
Federal Judicial History Office, which is now a part of its general administration.

        While the Center is expanding its orientation and continuing educational
programs for judges, the creation of a separate Court Education Division
indicates its commitment to strengthening the depth and breadth of its programs
for supporting personnel. The Center and the Administrative Office continue
their coordination of educational programming in light of their respective
missions, as recommended by the AO-FJC Joint Task Force on education and
training programs. The expanded Publications and Media Division will allow a
more prominent role for publications and video productions in third branch
education.

        At the request of the Judicial Conference's Long Range Planning
Committee, the Center is working with the Committee and the Administrative
Office's Long Range Planning Office to fashion a long range planning seminar
in March, 1992, for chief circuit judges and chairs of Conference committees.
It is working with the National Center for State Courts and the State Justice
Institute to develop a conference in April, 1992, on state-federal judicial
relationships, which includes the Judicial Conference as a co-sponsor.

       The Center has devoted significant resources in recent months to helping
the courts implement the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990, including customized
technical assistance with caseload data analysis and twoday seminars in August
and September, respectively, for the Act's pilot courts and early implementation
and demonstration courts.

      Judge Schwarzer noted that the Center and Sentencing Commission had
reached agreement on procedures to ensure both the Center and the
Commission will work together, without duplication, on programming that reflects
both agencies' statutory obligations for sentencing education.

       The Center is currently engaged in two wide-ranging studies of the courts
of appeals, both mandated by Congress: one analyzes the extent and impact
of intercircuit conflicts, and -the other is studying various alternatives to the
current structure of the courts of appeals.



      The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
Federal Judicial Center, Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit and Bankruptcy Judge Sidney B. Brooks of the
District of Colorado, to succeed Circuit Judge Monroe G. McKay and Bankruptcy
Judge Robert E. Ginsberg.



        Between Judicial Conference sessions, the Executive Committee took the
following actions on behalf of the Conference:

                               CRIME LEGISLATION

          The Executive Committee approved a report and recommendations of the
  Committee on Criminal Law and Probation Administration on the Senate-passed
  Biden-Thurmond Violent Crime Control Act of 1991 (S. 1241, 102nd Congress),
  including provisions on drug testing, mandatory restitution, mandatory minimum
  sentences, probation and supervised release revocation, law enforcement
  officers' rights, denial of federal benefits, and payment for services of guardians
  ad litem and HIV testing. Reiterating the Conference's long-standing position
  that federal prosecutions should be limited to charges that cannot or should not
  be prosecuted in state courts, and its opposition to mandatory minimum
  sentences, the Executive Committee also opposed two amendments in S. 1241:
  one to provide for federal prosecution of cases in which a firearm was used to
  commit a homicide if the firearm at some point crossed state or foreign borders,
  and the other to provide mandatory prison terms for the use, possession, or
  carrying of a firearm during a state crime of violence or state drug trafficking
, crime.



        The Committee also concurred in the A0 Director's recommendations that
 Congress should authorize the expansion of pretrial services urinalysis tests for
 inclusion of the results in pretrial services reports, and not establish a system
 of mandatory testing for post-conviction felony offenders.

                           CIVIL JUSTICE REFORM ACT

        Title Ill of Public Law 101-650, the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990
 ("CJRA), requires that the Director of the Administrative Office prepare semi-
 annual reports showing, by judicial officer, motions pending for more than six
 months, bench trials submitted for more than six months, and civil cases
 pending for more than three years. In contrast, prior Conference reporting
 requirements mandate the quarterly compilation of matters under advisement
 over 60 days, and an annual review of cases pending for more than three years.

       The informatioil required under the CJRA is sufficiently similar to the prior
 Conference requirements that the CJRA reports should be substituted therefor.
 Accordingly, the Executive Committee concurred in the recommendation of the
Committee on Court Administration and Case Management that the quarterly
reports on matters under advisement over 60 days and annual reports of three-
year-old cases be replaced by semi-annual reports on motions pending for more
than six months, bench trials submitted for more than six months, and cases
pending for more than three years. In order to make the reporting cycles for the
district courts and courts of appeals consistent, the Executive Committee also
agreed to require semi-annual rather than quarterly reports of matters under
submission in the courts of appeals for more than 90 days. The Committee
defined "motions pending," "bench trials submitted," and "three-year-old cases,"
and directed that the first CJRA report will be compiled on the basis of motions,
bench trials, and cases pending on September 30, 1991. Of course, any circuit
judicial council may require any other reports that it deems appropriate.

        Until such time as they can be generated from automated systems, these
reports will have to be prepared individually by judges and magistrate judges.
Circuit executives will collect the reports from judicial officers in the same
manner as they presently collect reports on matters under advisement, and
forward consolidated circuit reports to the Administrative Office.

       The Committee also approved interim guidelines for the allocation of
resources for the implementation of the CJRA.

                   ADDITIONAL BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

       In March, 1991 (JCUS-MAR 91, pp. 12-13), the Judicial Conference
approved a new system of bankruptcy case weights and a biennial survey of
judgeship needs. With regard to the 1991 survey, the Conference agreed to an
expedited process, whereby recommendations would be presented to the
Executive Committee in July, 1991.

        After canvassing the Judicial Conference, the Executive Committee
concurred in the Bankruptcy Committee's recommendationthat Congress should
create 18 new bankruptcy judgeships (in addition to 14 additional judgeships
recommended by the Conference between September, 1989, and February,
1991), as follows: one each in the Districts of Massachusetts, New Hampshire,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania (Eastern), New Jersey, Texas (Northern), Texas
(Western), Tennessee (Western), Illinois (Southern), Alabama (Northern) and
Florida (Southern); two each in the Southern District of New York, the Central
District of California, and the Middle District of Florida; and a shared judgeship
for the Middle and Southern Districts of Georgia. Approval of the new
judgeships in New Hampshire and Illinois (Southern) was premised on the
understanding that these courts would then provide substantial assistance in the
District of Rhode Island and the Southern District of Indiana, respectively.
       The Executive Committee considered and amended a Senate proposal
that would require the Judicial Conference, after considering the results of a
survey of the district conducted by the Director of the Administrative Office, to
determine and report to the Congress whether bankruptcy judgeship vacancies
created by resignation, retirement, removal or death should be filled.

      In order to comply with a May 1, 1991, statutory deadline (9 104 of the
Bankruptcy Code) for transmittal to the Congress and the President, the
Committee also approved recommendations for the uniform adjustment of dollar
amounts in bankruptcy cases.
       -
                  CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT COMPENSATION

       On recommendation of the Defender Services Committee, the Executive
Committee (a) approved an attorney pay cost adjustment (formerly referred to
as an "alternative attorney compensation rate") under the Criminal Justice Act of
$75 for in- and out-ofcourt time in the Northern District of Georgia, subject to
the availability of funds; and (b) authorized the immediate retroactive
implementation of the $75 rate for all services performed by counsel appointed
under the CJA in one case pending in that district, United States v. Moodv, Jr.,
because of the unique circumstances involved. See also "Criminal Justice Act
Compensation," infra pp. 56-57.

                      VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT

         The Violence Against Women Act of 1991 (S. 15, 102nd Congress) would,
among other things, make the intentional injury to a spouse or intimate partner,
by one who crossed a state line, a federal crime (Title II), provide for a civil
rights remedy in the federal courts for victims of gender-based violence (Tile Ill)
and "encourage the circuit courts to conduct studies of instances, if any, of
gender bias in each circuit" (Title V). The Executive Committee agreed to take
no position on Tile V, but directed the Administrative Office to continue to work
with Congress to obtain acceptable modifications. With regard to Titles II and
Ill, three Conference committees had reviewed the legislation and reported
concern about its potential impact on the federal courts. Accordingly, the
Committee voted to recommend the appointment by the Chief Justice of a
special Ad Hoc Committee on Gender-Based Violence, not limited to members
of the Executive Committee, to address the bill. See also 'Violence Against
Women Act," infra pp. 57-58.

                        CAMERAS IN THE COURTROOM

       In reviewing the guidelines for conducting the cameras in the courtroom
pilot program (see JCUS-SEP 90, pp. 103-104), the Committee on Court
Administration and Case Management determined that certain amendments to
the guidelines were necessary prior to the experiment's July 1, 1991,
commencement date. The Executive Committee concurred, modifying the
guidelines in three respects. 'The Executive Committee also directed the Court
Administration and Case Management Committee to notify courts that strict
adherence to the guidelines is a condition to participation in this program.

                                 RESOLUTION

       Noting that this was the last Judicial Conference session for Chief Judge
Charles Clark, Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Committee (Judge
Clark not participating) approved the following resolution:

              The Judicial Conference of the United States at its
       September 1991 session in Asheville, North Carolina, hereby pays
       special tribute to the:

                        HONORABLE CHARLES CLARK

       Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth
       Circuit and Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Judicial
       Conference.

              To the great misfortune of the Third Branch, Charles Clark
       has announced his intention to retire from service as a federal
       judge to pursue private practice. His departure will create a
       mammoth vacuum which will be difficult to fill. Serving the
       Judicial Conference in key leadership roles for over a decade,
       Judge Clark's contributions to the judicial system are innumerable.

              Appointed to the Court of Appeals on October 17, 1969,
       Judge Clark became Chief Judge and a member of the Judicial
       Conference in October, 1981. He served on the Judicial
       conference Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules from 1979 to
       1982. In 1980, Judge Clark was appointed to the Budget
       Committee, and he served as its chairman from 1981 to 1987.
       He was a member of the Comrr~itteeto Study the Judicial
       Conference from 1986 to 1987 and of the Special Committee on
       Habeas Corpus Review of Capital Sentences from 1988 to 1989.
       Judge Clark became a member of the Executive Committee in
       1984, serving as Chairman since 1989. He chaired the Legislative
       Liaison Group of the Executive Committee from 1987 to 1989, and
       took on this role again in 1991.
         His tenure as Budget Committee Chairman was
particularly noteworthy for his outstanding leadership during a time
of unprecedented judicial growth and ever-present threat of
diminishing resources. In his role as a principal witness for the
judiciary before Congress, Judge Clark commanded the respect
of the legislators and was instrumental in earring credibility for the
Third Branch. He felt a special responsibility to ensure that the
judiciary requested or~lythe funds that were required, and that
these moneys were expended wisely and without waste. When
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
("Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act") required substantial cuts in the
judiciary's budget, Judge Clark did an extraordinary job leading
the March 1986 session of the Judicial Conference through the
mass of complex and diicult issues which required resolution in
order to satisfy budgetary requirements.

        Judge Clark sewed on the Judicial Conference Executive
Committee longer than any other member in recent history. His
consistent concern for the views of the full Conference and its
presiding officer coupled with his dedication, wisdom and integrity
combined to make his leadership of the group an exceptional
one. A thorough and hardworking Chairman, he deftly led the
Committee through the many important, and often emergent,
issues before it, including such issues as those concerning the
Civil Justice Reform Act and cameras in the courtroom, as well as
a myriad of matters arising from the Federal Courts Study
Committee. Judge Clark's unique role and special stature is
reflected in part by the Chief Justice's entrusting the gavel to him
during portions of the Conference sessions.

         It is with mixed feelings that we express our warm and
heartfelt good wishes to Charles Clark in his retirement from the
federal judiciary.      We extend our sincere gratitude and
appreciation to him and his charming wife, Emily, as they return
to private life. Judge Clark has been a distinguished and
respected leader, and his significant contributions to the federal
judicial system will be felt for many years to come.

                    MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

The Executive Committee also:

approved a revised financial plan for the fiscal year 1991 to take into
account funds received from enactment of a supplemental 'appropriations
      request, and also approved adjustments to the fiscal year 1991 financial
      plan to utilize an estimated end-of-year balance in the "Salaries and
      Expenses" appropriation to establish a reserve for the fourth quarter;

      deferred until its consideration of the spending plan for the fiscal year
       1992 a request by the Chief Judge of the United States Claims Court for
      immediate funding of temporary second law clerks for Claims Court
      judges;

      assigned oversight responsibility for the monitoring of asbestos litigation
      and legislation to the Committees on Court Administration and Case
      Management and Federal-State Jurisdiction, with the expectation that the
      chairmen would appoint a joint subcommittee on asbestos;

      directed that Conference members be provided with committee reports
      at the same time they are provided to Executive Committee members,
      thereby giving Conference members more time to review the reports;

      concurred in grammatical and formatting changes in the United States
      Courts Design Guide;

      changed the name of the Magistrates Committee to the "Committee on
      the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System";

      agreed to poll the Judicial Conference on presenting the names
      proposed by Chief Justice Rehnquist of Judges Pamela Rymer, Alicemarie
      Stotler, and Roger Wollman as possible successors to Judge George E.
      MacKinnon on the United States Sentencing Commi~sion;~

      reviewed a list of likely appointees by the Chief Justice to a special
      committee to study the Criminal Justice Act (see 5 318 of Public Law
      101-650) ;

      requested the Director of the Administrative Office to notify all federal
      judicial officers of procedures to follow to have their addresses and
      telephone numbers removed from directories and similar publications;

      directed that Congressional leaders be contacted to request that an
      ongoing GAO study on court security include the entire subject of court
      and judicial securrty;



     'The Conference concurred in the recommendations, and the names were
officially transmitted to the President on June 25, 1991.
       approved the agenda for the Ninth Circuit Sentencing Institute in
       September, 1991, and also approved a Sentencing Institute for the judges
       of the Second and Eighth Circuits in March, 1992, pending approval of
       the circuits involved; and

       declined to initiate a study into whether a contract relocation services
       program for disposal of the residences of certain judicial officers and
       employees transferred in the interest of the government should be
       reinstituted, and also declined to authorize such assistance on an
       expedited basis for a particular judge whose permanent duty station had
       changed.

             COMMWITE ON THE ADMDWMATIVE OFFICE

         The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it has
established a subcommittee to examine the volume and nature of all the
statistical gatherings and reports produced by the Administrative Office to assist
the full Committee in reviewing those materials for continued usefulness.

           COMlWITEE ON AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGY

           ACCESS TO THE COURTS BY THE DEAF COMMUNITY

       The Judicial Conference approved a pilot project in two courts in the
Eighth Circuit to provide enhanced access to those courts by the deaf
community. The project involves the installation of Telecommunication Devices
for the Deaf (TDD) in the clerks' offices. In addition, the Committee on
Automation and Technology reported that the General Services Administration
provides a relay service to deaf persons who wish to make an inquiry to a
federal agency. This service is available in all districts to assist a deaf person
who needs to contact a federal court.

                VIDEOCONFERENCING - ORAL ARGUMENTS

       'The Conference approved, pending available funding, a one-year
videoconferencing pilot project in the Third Circuit. This project will allow the
Court of Appeals to use videoconferencing for oral arguments between
Pittsburgh and Philadelphia. The cost-effectiveness of this practice will be
studied, but it is anticipated that the service will benefit attorneys by enabling
them to avoid travel costs and extended periods of time away from the office.
                        JUDICIARY AUTOMATION FUND

        The Judiciary Automation Fund allows the judiciary to convert funds
which normally must be expended in one fiscal year into funds which may be
expended over multiple fiscal years, thus providing stability and flexibility in the
automation program.       Pursuant to the appropriations legislation which
established the Fund (Public Law 101-162), the operatirlg authority of the Fund
will terminate on September 30, 1994. On recommendation of the Committee
on Automation and Technology and the Committee on the Budget, the Judicial
Conference endorsed the continuation of the Judiciary Automation Fund beyond
1994 and agreed to seek a five-year extension of the Fund.

                      BANKRUPTCY COURT AUTOMATION

        In 1988, the Committee on Judicial Improvements approved a policy,
which was incorporated into the Long Range Plan for Automation in the US.
Courts, that the National Interim Bankruptcy System (NIBS) was an interim
program and would not be expanded to include electronic docketing. On
recommendation of the Committee on Automation and Technology, because of
the strong preference of some NlBS courts to retain NlBS pending the transition
to the new Court Integrated Information Management System (CIIMS)
architecture, the Judicial Conference established the following new policy:

a.     Bankruptcy courts that have not been trained on BANCAP may choose
       which system (either BANCAP or NIBS) they prefer to implement; and

b.     once either NlBS or BANCAP is chosen, the decision can be changed
       only in extraordinary circumstances and with the approval of the
       Committee'on Automation and Technology.

                              FILING BY FACSIMILE

        Effective December 1, 1991, amendments to the Federal Rules of
Appellate, Civil, and Bankruptcy Procedure allow federal courts to enact local
rules to permit papers to be filed by facsimile, provided that such local rules
may be adopted only if "authorized by and consistent with standards established
by the Judicial Conference of the United States." Given the current state of
affordable facsimile technology, the routine acceptance at this time of court
documents by facsimile would present practical problems and would create an
administrative and resource burden to the courts. Thus, the Judicial Conference
authorized courts, effective December 1, 1991, to adopt local rules to permit the
clerk to accept for filing papers transmitted by facsimile transmission equipment,
provided that such filing is permitted only (a) in compelling circumstances or (b)
under a practice which was established by the court prior to May 1, 1991 (the
date the Federal Rules changes were transmitted to Congress).

   CO-            ON ADMINEIRATION OF THE BANKRUPKY SYSlEM

                           UNITED STATES TRUSTEES

        Upon recommendation of the Committee on Administration of the
Bankruptcy System, the Judicial Conference approved a Memorandum of
Understanding between the Executive Office for United States Trustees and the
judiciary regarding case closing and post confirmation Chapter 11 monitoring.
This memorandum, which incorporates comments from the bankruptcy courts,
fully delineates the respective responsibilities of the courts and the United States
trustees in the case closing process.

                           TRUSTEE COMPENSATION

        The Judicial Conference agreed to seek appropriate legislative action to
assure that a trustee who serves in a case converted to Chapter 7 will receive
the same compensation authorized by section 330(b) of the Bankruptcy Code
for a trustee serving in a case originally filed under Chapter 7.



       The Committee on the Bicentennial of the Constitution reported that over
300 Article Ill judges had expressed interest i n attending the Conference in
Celebration of the Bill of Rights in Williamsburg in October, 1991. The
Conference agenda provided a historical perspective on the Bill of Rights and
included topics which focused on the First Amendment, examined criminal law
issues and the right to privacy, and looked at the Bill of Rights in the
international community.



         ALTERNATIVE BUDGET REQUEST FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1992

        Anticipating the need, once again, to reduce the judiciary's budget
request below the optimum level, the Committee on the Budget proposed, and
the Judicial Conference approved, alternative, or lower, budget estimates for the
fiscal year 1993, subject to amendments necessary as a result of (a) new
legislation; (b) actions of the Judicial Conference; or (c) other reasons the
Director of the Administrative Office considers necessary and appropriate.
                   COMlWITEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

       The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that, since its last report,
the Committee has received 49 new written inquiries and issued 43 advisory
responses. The Chairman received and responded to 54 telephone inquiries,
and other committee members responded to 62 informal inquiries from their
colleagues.

                       FEDERAL ErHlCS LAW REFORM

       The Judicial Conference approved the recommendationof the Committee
on Codes of Conduct to amend the regulations implementing Titles Ill and VI of
the Ethics Reform Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-19 4 , relating to gifts and outside
earned income, honoraria, and outside employment, to (a) cover the
Commissioners and employees of the Sentencing Commission and the judges
and employees of the United States Tax Court; (b) reflect technical amendments
to the Ethics Reform Act and changes in other laws; and (c) make other minor
technical corrections.

 COMlWITEE ON COURT ADMDIEIIWTION AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                               NATURALIZATION

        Under the Naturalization Amendments of 1990, effective October, 1991,
applicants for naturalization have an administrative ceremony unless they elect
to take their oath in a ceremony in district court. These amendments also
provide that the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) is responsible for
printing and issuing all naturalization certificates; however, INS will not commit
to providing courts with certificates to be issued at the court oath-taking
ceremonies. Many judges who take pride in conducting these ceremonies, and
wish to continue the tradition of oath-taking ceremonies in the courts, feel that
a significant number of applicants will not choose a court ceremony if they
believe that to do so would delay their receipt of a naturalization certificate.
Therefore, the Conference resolved that any person seeking United States
citizenship who elects a federal court as the situs of the administration of the
oath of allegiance should be provided with a certificate of naturalization at the
time of oath-taking.

                         PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

       Upon request of the Eastern District of North Carolina and the Judicial
Council for the Fourth Circuit, the Judicial Conference agreed to recommend
that Congress amend 28 U.S.C. 5 113(a) to delete Clinton and Washington as
places of holding court for the Eastern District of North Carolina and establish
Greenville as a place of holding court. The Conference also agreed, upon
request of the Eastern District of Texas, and the Judicial Council for the F i h
Circuit, to recommend that Congress amend 28 U.S.C. ยง 124(c) to establish
Plano as a place of holding district c'oud in the Eastern District of Texas.=



        Noting that the cost and delay associated with the scheduling and travel
often required for the taking of depositions and testimony in civil actions could
be reduced through the use of videoconferencing technology, the Committee
on Court Administration and Case Management recommended the approval in
concept of the use of videoconferencingtechnology for the taking of depositions
and the testimony of witnesses.           The Conference concurred in the
recommendation.

            COlMMlTEE ON COURT AND JUDICIAL S E U R l T Y

       The Committee on Court and Judicial Security reported that it had
discussed the various activities it is monitoring, including a legislative proposal
to authorize judicial officers to carry firearms; background investigations of court
employees; and the General Accounting Office study of court securii (see
"Miscellaneous Actions," supra pp. 49-51). The Committee also.received reports
from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Secret Service
on off-site security.

 COMMlllXE ON                     LAW AND PROBATION ADMHWTIXATION

                       INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT

        The Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Program
Appropriations Act (Public Law 101-513) required the Judicial Conference to
report to Congress by October 1, 1991, on the feasibility and the relationship to
the federal judiciary of an international criminal court. The Conference approved
a report proposed by the Committee on Criminal Law and Probation
Administration and authorized its transmittal to Congress.




      In subsequent action, the Executive Committee approved on behalf of the
Conference (mail vote concluded October 18, 1991), the substitution of Plano
for Sherman as the place of holding bankruptcy court for the Sherman and Paris
Divisions of the Eastern District of Texas, effective immediately.
                        DRUG AFrERCARE PROGRAM

       The authorization for funding for the substance abuse aftercare program
expires on September 30, 1992. On recommendation of the Committee, the
Judicial Conference endorsed legislation to reauthorize appropriations for the
A 0 Director to contract for the substance abuse aftercare program.

                     MANDATORY MINIMUM SENTENCES

        Under current law, the only way a judge can sentence below a
mandatory minimum is upon a motion of the government attesting that the
defendant has provided substantial assistance. This can help offenders with a
high degree of involvement, but often does not help lesser involved offenders
who have no knowledge to trade. While the judiciary's overriding goal is to
persuade Congress to repeal mandatory minimum sentences, for the short term,
a safety valve of some sort is needed to ameliorate some of the harshest results
of mandatory minimums. The Judicial Conference, on recommendation of the
Committee on Criminal Law and Probation Administration, approved a proposed
statutory amendment that would provide district judges with authority to impose
a sentence below a mandatory minimum when a defendant has limited
involvement in an offense.

                  COMMITIEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES

                  CRIMINAL JUSl'ICE ACT COMPENSATION

        The Judicial Conference approved, subject to the availability of funds4,
the Defender Services Committee's recommendation of a pay cost adjustment
to increase the attorney compensation rate under the Criminal Justice Act to $75
per hour for in-court and out-of-court work in the 35 districts set forth below:

       Alabama (Southern)                   Maryland
       Arizona                              Michigan (Western)
       Connecticut                          Mississippi (Northern)
       Florida (Middle)                     Mississippi (Southern)
       Florida (Northern)                   Missouri (Eastern)
       Guam                                 Missouri (Western)
       Idaho                                Nevada
       Kentucky (Eastern)                   North Carolina (Western)
       Kentucky (Western)                   Ohio (Northern)
       Louisiana (Eastern)                  Ohio (Southern)
       Louisiana (Middle)                   Oregon
       Louisiana (Western)                  Pennsylvania (Middle)


    4Funding is not available for the fiscal year 1992.

                                       56
       Pennsylvania (Western)                Texas (Southern)
       South Carolina                        Texas (Western)
       Tennessee (Eastern)                   Virginia (Western)
       Tennessee (Middle)                    West Virginia (Northern)
       Texas (Eastern)                       West Virginia (Southern)
       Texas (Northern)

       In anticipation of additional requests for pay cost adjustments, and to
reduce the administrative burden on the Judicial Conference and its Executive
Committee, the Conference delegated to the Defender Services Committee the
authority to approve attorney pay cost adjustments for districts and in individual
cases. See also "Criminal Justice Act Compensation," supra p. 47.



                       VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT

      After considering the report and recommendations of the Committee on
Federal-State Jurisdiction and the Ad Hoc Committee on Gender-Based Violence,
the Judicial Conference approved the following resolution on S. 15 (102nd
Congress), the proposed Violence Against Women Act of 1991:

               The Judicial Conference of the United States, while
       supporting the objectives of the Violence Against Women Act of
       1991 (S. 15), joins the National Conference of State Chief Justices
       in opposing specific provisions of the current draft that
       significantly threaten the abillty of the federal courts to administer
       this Act, and other Acts of Congress, promptly, fairly, and in
       accordance with their objectives.

               Title Ill of S. 15 as drafted creates federal jurisdiction to
       allow victims of certain defined criminal acts motivated by gender
       to recover compensatory and punitive damages. The Conference
       agrees with the State Chief Justices that the current broad
       definition of crime (applicable, for example, to misdemeanors and
       other minor threats against persons and property) creates a right
       that "will be invoked as a bargaining tool within the context of
       divorce negotiations and add a major complicating factor to an
       environment which is often acrimonious as it is."

              Title II creates a federal crime where one who, having
       traveled across a state line, commits an intentional act that injures
       his spouse or intimate partner. Furthermore, the federal court
       before which the criminal case is brought may issue temporary
       orders of protection of an abused spouse or intimate partner.

               The Conference agrees with the State Chief Justices when
       they say that S. 15 as drafted could cause major state-federal
       jurisdictional problems and disruptions in the processing of
       domestic relations cases in state courts. The Chief Justices point
       out that over three million domestic relations cases were filed in
       state courts in 1989. If a party to one-tenth of those suits were
       to seek collateral recourse under S. 15, those cases alone would
       exceed the total of all cases now pending in the district courts
       and courts of appeals of the federal judiciary.

               In the recently enacted Civil Justice Reform Act, Congress
       recognized and stated very well the predicament of the civil
       dockets of the federal courts. By adding to those dockets causes
       of action now actionable in state courts, as S. 15 would do, or as
       sections 202 and 1213(G) of S. 1241 (the Violent Crime Control
       Act of 1991) would do, the serious problem will become much
       worse.

               The subject of violence based on gender and possible
       responses is extremely complex. The Conference is prepared to
       work with Congress to ensure the most efficient utilization of
       scarce judicial resources and to fashion an appropriate rdsponse
       to violence directed against women.

       The Conference instructed the Ad Hoc Committee on Gender-Based
Violence to continue its dialogue with the sponsors of S. 15 and, in
collaboration with the Executive Committee, to make known the position of the
Judicial Conference to the members of Congress. See also "Violence Against
Women Act," supra p. 47.

                              TRANSFER OF VENUE

          The limit in 28 U.S.C. 5 1404(a) on transfer of a civil action only to a
district where it "might have been brought" is a source of potential difficulty,
particularly where actions growing out of the same events may be pending in
different courts and consolidation may be desirable. The Conference approved
a proposal by the Federal-State Jurisdiction Committee to seek an amendment
to this section which would delete the language ''where it might have been
brought" and thereby permit the transfer of civil litigation to any judicial district
under the prevailing standards that govern section 1404(a) transfer.
                               HABEAS CORPUS

        Title XI of S. 1241 (102nd Congress), the Biden-Thurmond Violent Crime
Control Act of 1991, which passed the Senate on July 11, 1991, contains
provisions concerning general and capital habeas corpus reform. The habeas
provisions in the Senate crime bill provide for deference to state court factual
and legal determinations that have been ''fully and fairly adjudicated" in state
proceedings. Taking a formal position on the issue of 'Yull and fair
adjudication", the Judicial Conference voted to oppose the inclusion of language
relating to full and fair adjudication contained in the proposed amendments of
28 U.S.C. 99 2254(d) and 2259(b) in S. 1241.

        REMOVAL OF RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION CASES

        The ConferencG approved the Federal-State Jurisdiction Committee's
recommendation that Congress amend 12 U.S.C. Q 1441a(1)(3) primarily to
permit more flexibility in the removal authority of the Resolution Trust
Corporation (RTC) in savings and loan actions. This amendment should
alleviate some of the burden on the United States District Court for the District
of Columbia and provide other options for removal of actions involving the RTC.
The proposed amendment makes three other changes to the statute, not directly
related to removal to the District of Columbia: (a) It ensures that this statute
does not supersede any other removal provision; (b) it changes the time for
removal from 30 days after suit is filed to 30 days after service to correct the
problems arising from delayed service; and (c) it clarifies the procedure
governing substitution of the RTC into pending litigation.

 NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON STATE-FEDERAL JUDICIAL RELATIONSHIPS

       The Judicial Conference agreed to co-sponsor a National Conference on
State-Federal Judicial Relationships in the spring of 1992. Other sponsors
include the Federal Judicial Center, the State Justice Institute, the Conference
of State Chief Justices, the National Center for State Courts, and the National
Judicial Council of State and Federal Courts.

              COMMITEX ON INI'ERCIRCUlT ASSIGNMENTS

       The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the
period February 1, 1991, through July 31, 1991, the Committee had
recommended 92 intercircuit assignments to be undertaken by 61 Article Ill
judges. Of this number, 21 were senior circuit judges, five were active circuit
judges, 24 were senior district judges, five were active district judges, one was
a senior judge from the Court of International Trade, and five were active judges
of the Court of International Trade.
                   COMhfrnlw ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

              TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

       The Judicial Conference approved amendments to the Travel Reaulations
for United States Justices and Judaes to:

a.   ,
         authorize the reimbursement of travel expenses incurred by the chief
         judge of a circuit or district in which a new Supreme Court justice
         previously served, for attending, upon invitation of the Chief Justice, the
         investiture of that justice;

b.       modify the actual expense reimbursement provisions for judges who rent
         or maintain an abode at a temporary duty location, permitting more
         favorable treatment of long-term lodging costs where the abode is rented
         by the week or month because the rent is less than the cost of
         acceptable hotel or motel accommodations, or where lodging during
         official travel is the primary purpose for renting or maintaining the abode
         on an annual basis;

c.       clarify that any judge who elects to claim subsistence on an actual
         expense basis must continue to do so on the day on which the judge
         returns to the official duty station or residence from which he or she
         commutes to that duty station;

d.       authorize reimbursement for travel expenses incurred by the Chief Justice
         or chief judge of a court, or his or her designee among the members of
         the court, in attending memorial services and funerals of judges or court
         employees;

e.       clarify that a senior judge may be reimbursed for travel expenses
         whenever the judge is authorized to travel away from his or her
         customary residence (official duty station) to transact official business;

f.       reflect the current use of government-sponsored credit cards and special
         accounts with GSA-contracted travel agents, rather than Government
         Transportation Requests (GTRs), to obtain commercial airplane, railroad,
         and bus tickets for official travel; and

g.       clarify that for reimbursement of expenses incurred by transferred judges
         in the sale and purchase of a residence, the judges should rely on the
         information in the relocation package provided at the time of transfer,
         which will be the most current, rather than the rates published in the
         regulations.
         Upon recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
Conference agreed to support legislation requested by the General Services
Administration to authorize increased mileage rates for use of privately-owned
aircraft, automobiles, and motorcycles on official travel.

        On the subject of travel of spouses, the Judicial Conference adopted the
following statement of policy:

               The Judicial Conference recognizes the importance of
       spouses in the official lives of our judges. While there are
       countless examples of the personal aid and support that judges'
       spouses provide, they also perform a broader, public service by
       helping judges to bear the heavy responsibilities and confront the
       potential risks of a judicial career. This frequently causes spouses
       to put aside other obligations to accompany judges on official
       travel; for example, they may atrend seminars at circuit judicial
       conferences that focus on security awareness and other matters
       of concern to judges and the Judiciary.

               The Conference wishes to alleviate the personal financial
       burden of this spousal travel, yet does not advocate the use of
       appropriated funds to that end. Accordingly, the Committee on
       the Judicial Branch is directed to continue exploring appropriate
       ways in which "frequent flyer" and other bonuses earned as a
       result of official travel may be used by spouses in order to
       accompany judges on officialtravel in circumstances where their
       participation is sanctioned by the Chief Justice or chief judge of
       the respective court and qualifies as official travel because it
       necessarily relates to the performance of judicial duties.

                     COhmnTmE ON JUDICIAL lmiICS

       The Judicial Ethics Committee reported that as of July, 1991, it had
received 1,959 financial disclosure reports and certifications for the calendar
year 1990, including 1,002 reports and certifications from judicial officers and
957 reports and certifications from judicial employees.

                  con4lmlmX ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES

  FISCAL YEAR 1993 BUDGET REQUESTS FOR SUPPORTING PERSONNEL

       The Judicial Conference reviewed requests for fiscal year 1993 positions
for supporting personnel and approved the following additional positions
(subject to the availability of funds):
       106 JSP-8 electronic court recorder operators.

       155 JSP-11 automation positions to support personal computers in the
       courts.

       31 JSP-11 deputy clerks for the Autohation Training and Support
       Centers.

       One deputy clerk position and one secretary position for the Judicial
       Panel on Multidistrict Litigation.

                  BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATOR OFFICES

       In order to allow bankruptcy administrators to perform certain case
closing functions being transferred from bankruptcy clerks' offices, the Judicial
Conference authorized for fiscal year 1992, subject to the availability of funds,
ten additional positions in bankruptcy administrator offices, including six JSP-
9 case closing clerks and four JSP-11 administrative analysts.

                      ADDITIONAL COURT REPORTERS

       The Conference approved one' additional court reporter each for Georgia
(Northern), Georgia (Southern), Maryland, Massachusetts, Nebraska, and
Washington (Eastern), and the transfer of a previously-approved additional court
reporter position in Texas (Northern) from Lubbock to Fort Worth.

                  JUDICIARY SALARY PLAN MODIFICATIONS

      On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, the Judicial
Conference took the following actions regarding position classifications and
benchmark standards, subject, as always, to the availability of funds:

       Approved the establishment of benchmark standards for the following
       support positions in probation and pretrial services offices, at the same
       grade levels in the Judiciary Salary Plan for such positions in the district
       and bankruptcy court clerks' offices: supply clerk, records/reproduction
       clerk, receptionist, property and procurement assistant, secretary to the
       deputy chief, administrative analyst, personnel specialist, personnel
       assistant, and administrative manager;

       Approved an increase in the target grade of the secretary to chief
       preargument attorneys from JSP-8 to JSP-9.
a      Approved revisions to the benchmark job standard for pro se wrii clerks
       to remove the clause limiting to JSP-7 such positions in courts having
       pro se law clerks.

a      Approved revisions to the benchmark job standard for systems managers
       to allow its use in courts with non-ICMS automated case management
       systems.

              WORK MEASUREMENT AND STAFFING FORMULAS

        On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, the Judicial
Conference approved work measurement formulas for probation and pretrial
services offices. These formulas reflect work performed currently in these offices
and indicate that they have been understaffed by approximately 24 percent.
The Conference also approved a staffing formula for staff attorney positions in
courts of appeals, with the proviso that it be reevaluated in five years. A staffing
needs determination and allocation methodology for Circuit Executives' offices,
including a staffing ceiling, was approved by the Judicial Conference, which
authorized, for the fiscal year 1993, the addition in these offices of 31 new
permanent positions and the conversion of 17 current temporary positions to
permanent. Implementation of each of these staffing changes is, of course,
subject to the availability of funding.

        Because the development of new work measurement formulas for clerks'
offices has not yet been completed, the Conference, on recommendation of the
Committee, approved an extension of the temporary additive automation support
positions in UNK-based courts and reinstated all temporary additive 'positions
which have already expired. The extension would be effective until such time
as the work measurement studies for offices in these courts are complete and
the new staffing formulas are in effect.

                     GRADE LEVELS OF CLERKS AND
              CHIEF PROBAY-ION/PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICERS

        On the recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
approved changes to the guidelines (see JCUSSEP 87, p. 7; JCUS-MAR 89,
pp. 21-22) so as to determine annually the grades of clerks of district and
bankruptcy courts and of chief probation and chief pretrial services officers.
This determination will be made at or near the beginning of the fiscal year when
allocations of positions are made to the court and will be based on projected
workload data.
               JUDICIAL PANEL ON MULTlDlSTRlCT I,ITIGATION

      The Conference approved a special one-grade executive pay increase to
JSP-16 for the executive attorney of the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
and a promotion to JSP-15 for the clerk of the Panel.

       PROBATIONIPRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICERS' COMPENSATION

         In order to maintain pay parrty with executive branch law enforcement
officers, the Judicial Conference approved two recommendations of the
Committee on Judicial Resources concerning pay of certain probation and
pretrial services officers and officer assistants. First, the Conference authorized
higher basic pay rates for probation and pretrial services officers and officer
assistants in the same amounts and at the same time as those specified in
section 403 of the Federal Law Enforcement Pay Reform Act of 1990 for the
General Schedule, and at JSP grades and steps (JSP-3 through JSP-10)
corresponding to those specified in the Act for the General Schedule.

        The Conference also approved geographic pay differentials for probation
and pretrial services officers (except for chief probation and pretrial services
officers) and officer assistants in the eight metropolitan areas specified in section
404 of the Law Enforcement Pay Reform Act for General Schedule .employees,
at the same time and in the same percentages specified in the Act, as follows
(to be offset in three locations by the eight percent increase for court support
employees approved by the Judicial Conference in January 1991 (JCUS-MAR
91, pp. 9-10)):

       Boston-LawrenceSalem, MA-NH Consolidated                      16%
       Metropolitan Statistical Area

       Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside, CA,
       Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area

       New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island,                     16%
       NY-NJ-CT Consolidated Metropolitan
       Statistical Area

       San Francisco-OaklandSan Jose, CA,
       Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical
       Area

       San Diego, CAI Metropolitan Statistical
       Area
       Chicago-Gary-Lake County, IL-IN-WI
       Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area

       Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton,
       PA-NJ-DE-MD Consolidated Metropolitan
       Statistical Area

       Washington, DC-MD-VA Metropolitan
       Statistical Area

                              TRANSCRIPT RATES

        Due to the potentially widespread use by parties of diskette copies of
transcripts, the Conference approved an increase in the rates allowed for
diskette transcripts to make these rates the same as those allowed for paper
transcripts. The Conference also approved the following guidelines to regulate
the sale of transcripts on computer diskettes:

       Transcripts may be sold in computer diskette form in ASCII format, or
       other format requested by the ordering party and agreed to by the court
       reporter or transcriber, whether they represent originals, first copies, or
       additional copies.

       No additional charge is permitted for the cost of the diskette itself.

       Each page of transcript sold on diskettes must be formatted consistent
       with the Judicial Conference's approved transcript format guidelines, and
       diskettes may not contain any protection or programming codes that
       would prevent copying or transferring the data.

       The transcript copy filed with the clerk of court pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
       5 753(b) must be on paper; diskettes may be sold only if a paper copy
       is produced, certified, and filed with the clerk of court for the records of
       the court; and transcripts sold on diskettes must be identical to the
       paper transcripts filed with the clerk of court. Court reporters and
       transcribers who have Computer Assisted Transcript (CAT) or suitable
       word processing equipment are encouraged to provide diskettes of
       transcripts to parties upon request, but court reporters and transcribers
       who do not have CAT or suitable word processing equipment are not
       required to provide diskettes of transcripts to parties.

       Court reporters and transcribers must continue to produce paper
       originals and paper copies at the Judicial Conference rates when ordered
       by parties.
             EMPLOYEE RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT POLICY

        The Conference approved revisions to the judiciary's policy on
reimbursement of employee relocation expenses to incorporate the interim
employee relocation reimbursement guidelines adopted by the Executive
Committee in June 1990 (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 65), and to place certain restrictions
on reimbursement of relocations between districts of probation and pretrial
services officers. The revisions will be published in the Guide to Judiciary
Policies and Procedures.

                                JUDGES' STAFFS

       Current guidelines authorize court of appeals judges to hire a secretary,
an assistant secretary, and up to three law clerks, and district court judges may
hire a secretary and up to two law clerks. The Conference, at this session,
authorized court of appeals and district court judges to employ an additional
law clerk in lieu of an authorized secretary, or vice versa.

                CO-             ON WNG RANGE PIANNING

         The Long Range Planning Committee reported that it will focus its work
on coordinating and supporting long range planning by others within the
judiciary. The Committee further reported that it (a) designated individual
members to establish liaison relationships with 15 Judicial Conference
committees and with each circuit chief judge; (b) endorsed a request to the FJC
that it sponsor, in conjunction with the Committee and the AO, a conference on
 long range planning in the federal court system; and (c) intends to present a
 request for contract funds for the fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to commission
short-term assistance from organizations or persons experienced in long range
 planning.

                  COMMTlXX ON THE ADMUWXRATION
                  OF THE MAGwl'RATEJUDGES SYmEM

                                  LEGISLATION

        A "housekeeping" bill drafted by the Legislative and Public Affairs Office
of the Administrative Office contains several provisions affecting magistrate
judges, including provisions that would (a) amend certain statutes to expand
powers of magistrate judges to revoke terms of supervised release in
misdemeanor cases; (b) eliminate the requirement of consent of the defendants
to trial by magistrate judges in petty offense cases; and (c) eliminate the
requirement of written consent of the defendants to trial by magistrate judges in
class A misdemeanor cases. At the recommendation of the Committee on the
    Administration of the Magistrate Judges System, the Judicial Conference
    endorsed the provisions of this draft bill that affect magistrate judges.

           Also on recommendation of the Committee, the Conference opposed the
    mandatory restitution provisions contained in such bills as H.R. 1809, S. 566,
    and S. 618, 102nd Congress, due to concerns about the potential impact on the
    courts of these provisions.

                        ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION

          In order to assist magistrate judges in the performance of their duties in
    cases involving classified information, the Judicial Conference, on
    recommendation of the Magistrate Judges Committee, adopted a resolution that:

    a.     Acknowledges the need for full-time magistrate judges to have access to
           classified and top secret information in the performance of duties
           assigned to them by district judges and in the trial of cases assigned to
           them with the consent of the parties;

    b.     Endorses S. 394, 102nd Congress, the Counterintelligence Improvements
           Act of 1991, subject to the addition of a provision providing magistrate
           judges with automatic access to top secret information; and

    c.     Directs the Administrative Office to seek the necessary revisions in the
           security procedures promulgated by the Chief Justice and the regulations
           of the Department of Justice in order to provide magistrate judges with
           automatic access to classified information for use in the judicial tasks
           assigned to them.

               DESIGNATION OF NEW FULL-TIME MAGISTRATE JUDGE
                    POSITIONS FOR ACCELERATED FUNDING
I


            In order to provide prompt magistrate judge assistance to judicial districts
    which are seriously affected by drug filings, the Judicial Conference approved
    the Committee's recommendation to accelerate the funding for six new full-time
    magistrate judge positions. The new magistrate judge positions at Houston,
    Texas; Brownsville, Texas; McAllen (or Laredo), Texas; Boise, Idaho; Las Vegas,
    Nevada; and Montgomery, Alabama, were designated for accelerated funding in
    the fiscal year 1992.

                    CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

         After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
    recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts,
and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Conference approved the following
changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrate
judge positions. Unless otherwise indicated, these changes are to be effective
when appropriated funds are available.

                                'THIRD CIRCUIT

Pennsylvania (Middle)

a.     Rescinded discontinuation of the part-time magistrate judge position at
       Stroudsburg upon the filling of the new full-time magistrate judge position
       at Scranton, and instead continued the part-time position at Stroudsburg
       until December 31, 1993, at a reduced salary of $4,626 per annum;

b.     authorized the full-time magistrate judges at Scranton and Wilkes-Barre
       to serve in the adjoining Eastern District of Pennsylvania and the District
       of New Jersey; and

c.     authorized the full-time magistrate judge at Allentown in the Eastern
       District of Pennsylvania to serve in the adjoining Middle District of
       Pennsylvania and the District of New Jersey.

                               FOURTH CIRCUIT

West Virginia (Northern)

a.     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
       Wheeling from $4,626 to $18,503 per annum;

b.     decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
       Morgantown from $32,380 to $18,503 per annum; and

c.     made no change in the full-time magistrate judge position at Elkins.

                                FIFTH CIRCUIT

Louisiana (Eastern)

       Made no- change in the number, locations, salaries, or other
       arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.
Louisiana (Middle)

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or other
       arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

Texas (Southern)

a.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Houston;

b.     authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at McAllen (or
       Laredo);

c.     converted the part-time magistrate judge position at McAllen (or
       Brownsville) to a full-time magistrate judge position at Brownsville; and

d.     made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

                               EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Arkansas (Western)

a.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Hot Springs
       or El Dorado or Texarkana;

b.     discontinued the part-time magistrate judge positions at Hot Springs,
       Harrison, and El Dorado upon the appointment of the new full-time
       magistrate judge at Hot Springs or El Dorado or Texarkana; and

c.     made no change in the full-time magistrate judge position at Fort Smith.

                                NINTH CIRCUIT

California (Eastern)

a.     Authorized an additional full-time' magistrate judge position at Fresno;

b.     discontinued the part-time magistrate judge positions at Sequoia-Kings
       Canyon National Parks, Bakersfield, and Merced upon the appointment
       of the new full-time magistrate judge at Fresno; and

c.     made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.
Idaho

a.      Authorized a second full-time magistrate judge position at Boise;

b.      increased the salaries of the part-time magistrate judge positions at
        Pocatello and Coeur d'Alene from $18,503 to $27,755 per annum;

c.      discontinued the part-time magistrate judge positions at Pocatello and
        Coeur dSAleneupon the appointment of the second full-time magistrate
        judge at Boise; and

d.      made no change in the full-time magistrate judge position at Boise.

Nevada

a.      Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Las Vegas;
        and

b.      made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
        the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

                                TENTH CIRCUIT
                     .\


Utah

a.      Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Salt Lake City to
        full-time status;

b.      increased the salaries of the part-time magistrate judge positions at
        Monticello (or Moab) and Cedar City from $4,626 per annum to $6,938
        per annum; and

c.      made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
        the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

Wyoming

        Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Cody, effective
        October 1, 1991.
                              ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Alabama (Middle)

a.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge            position at
       Montgomery;

b.     discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Dothan effective
       upon the entry on duty of the new full-time magistrate judge at
       Montgomery; and

c.     made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

Florida (Northern)

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or other
       arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                COMMrITEE TO REVIEW CIRcmT COUNCIL
                   CONDUCI'AND DISABIIJTY ORDERS
       A recent amendment to the Judicial Conduct and Disabilrty Act, 28 U.S.C.
9 372(c)(8)(B), authorizes the Judicial Conference to certify to the House of
Representatives sua sponte by majority vote, without certification or referral from
a circuit judicial council, that consideration of impeachment may be warranted
if a judge has been convicted of a felony and has exhausted all means of direct
review or has waived the opportunity to seek such review. To implement this
amendment, the Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability
Orders recommended, and the Conference approved, revisions to the Rules for
the Processing of Certificates that a Judicial Officer Might Have Engaged in
Impeachable Conduct.

        COMMWlEE ON RULES OF PRACI'ICE AND PROCEDURE

       The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it had
reviewed its operations, policies and procedures. The Committee also reported
that two subcommittees will be appointed: one on style, which will hereafter
review submissions from advisory committees and suggest stylistic changes in
language, and the other on planning, which will consider such matters as the
frequency and scheduling of recommendations to the Conference, long range
integration of rules, and ease of access to the rules by the entire profession.
                  COMlUWEE ON SPACE AND FACWTEX

                 UNITED STATES COURTS DESIGN GUIDE

       On recommendation of the Committee on Space and Facilities, the
Judicial Conference authorized amendments to the United States Courts Design
Guide to (a) change "person" to "visitor" when describing the public in relevant
sections of the Guide; (b) add language relevant to the location of Federal
Defender Organizations; (c) reinstate the space standard in the previous edition
of the Guide of 200 square feet for Assistant Federal Public Defenders; and (d)
add a space standard of 100 square feet for secretaries to Assistant Federal
Public Defenders, omitted from the March 1991 version of the Guide.

                     CONFERENCE ON COURT FACILI1'IES

        The Conference endorsed participation in a conference on courthouse
design, construction, and operation, in joint sponsorship with the American
Institute of Architects and the National Center for State Courts, to be held in
Washington, D.C. in October 1992.

    AD HOC CO-         TO SI'UDY THE RELATIONSHlP BEXWEEN
 TEIE PEDERAC JUDICIAL CENTER AND TBE ADMINBlRATlVE OFF'ICE
                OF THE UNllED SIrATES COURTS

        In February, 1991, the Chief Justice established the Ad Hoc Committee
to Study the Relationship Between the Federal Judicial Center and the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts. After interviewing the Directors
and Deputy Directors of the two agencies, one former Director of the FJC, and
the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Judicial Conference, and after
studying the matter extensively, the Committee submitted a report which
addressed six major areas involving relationships between the FJC and the A0
and presented specific recommendations for improvement of relations in each
area. The Judicial Conference and the Board of the. Federal Judicial Center, in
joint executive session, approved the report, as amended. The Conference also
approved the following resolution:

       RESOLVED, that the Report, as amended, of the Ad Hoc
       Committee to Study the Relationship between the Federal Judicial
       Center and the Administrative Office of the United States Courts
       be transmitted forthwith to the Director of the Administrative Office
       and to the Executive Committee of the Judicial Conference, to
       whom oversight responsibilityfor implementation is assigned, with
       instructions to effect the immediate implementation of the
       recommendations set out in the Report. To the greatest extent
       feasible, implementation efforts shall proceed jointly with the
       Director of the FJC and the FJC Board unless the FJC Board and
       the Judicial Conference, upon the recommendation of its
       Executive Committee, jointly determine that any particular
       recommendation in the Report should be deferred, modified, or
       rejected.

                        PREllWW3SION OF TERMS
                       OF THE COURTS OF APPEAIS

       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 5 48, the Conference approved the pretermission
of terms of the following United States Courts of Appeals during the calendar
year 1992: the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit at Asheville, North
Carolina; the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit at Los Angeles, California;
and the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit at Wichita, Kansas, and
Oklahoma City,Oklahoma.



        All of the foregoing recommendations which require the expenditure of
funds for implementation were approved by the Conference subject to the
availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the Conference might
establish for the use of available resources.

                    RELEASE OF CONFEXENCE ACI'ION
        The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters considered
at this session where necessary for legislative or administrative action.




                                    Chief Justice of the United S
                                                                w
                                                                t
                                    Presiding



December 13, 1991
