             REPORT OF 'THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
          JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES


                             September 20,1993

        The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington, D.C.,
on September 20, 1993,pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United
States issued under 28 U.S.C. 9 331. The Chief Justice presided, and the following
members of the Conference were present:

       First Circuit:

               Chief Judge Stephen G. Breyer
               Judge Francis J. Boyle,
                      District of Rhode Island

       Second Circuit:

               Chief Judge Jon 0.Newman
               Judge Charles L. Brieant,
                      Southern District of New York

       Third Circuit:

               Chief Judge Dolores K. Sloviter
               Chief Judge John F. Gerry,
                      District of New Jersey

       Fourth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Sam J. Ervin, Ill
               Judge W. Earl Britt,
                      Eastern District of North Carolina

       Fifth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Henry A. Politz
               Chief Judge Morey L. Sear,
                      Eastern District of Louisiana
Sixth Circuit:

        Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt
        Chief Judge Thomas D. Lambros,
               Northern District of Ohio

Seventh Circuit:

        Chief Judge William J. Bauer
        Chief Judge Barbara B. Crabb,
               Western District of Wisconsin

Eighth Circuit:

        Chief Judge Richard S. Arnold
        Judge Donald E. O'Brien,
               Northern District of Iowa

Ninth Circuit:

        Chief Judge J. Clifford Wallace
        Judge William Matthew Byrne, Jr.,
               Central District of California

Tenth Circuit:

        Chief Judge Monroe G. McKay
        Judge Richard F! Matsch,
               District of Colorado

Eleventh Circuit:

        Chief Judge Gerald 6. Tjoflat
        Judge William Terrell Hodges,
               Middle District of Florida

District of Columbia Circuit:

        Chief Judge Abner J. Mikva
        Chief Judge John Garrett Penn,
               District of Columbia
       Federal Circuit:

               Chief Judge Helen W. Nies

       Court of International Trade:

               Chief Judge Dominick L. DiCarlo

        Circuit Judges Douglas Ginsburg, Otto R. Skopil, Deanell Reece Tacha, and
William W. Wilkins, Jr., and District Judges Vincent L. Broderick, Robert C.
Broomfield, Robert E. Keeton, Ann C. Williams, and Rya W. Zobel attended the
Conference session. Circuit Executives Vincent Flanagan, Steven Flanders, Toby
Slawsky, Samuel W, Phillips, Lydia Comberrel, James A. Higgins, Collins T.
Fitzpatrick, June L. Boadwine, Gregory B. Walters, Eugene J. Murret, Norman E.
Zoller, and Linda Finkelstein were also present.

      Representative William J. Hughes, Chairman of the House Judiciary
~ubcommitteeon Intellectual Property and Judicial Administration, spoke to the
Conference on matters pending in the House of interest to the judiciary. Attorney
General Janet Reno and Solicitor General Drew S. Days, Ill addressed the
Conference on matters of mutual interest to the Department of Justice and the
Conference.

       L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Admirristrative Office of the United States
Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence A. Lee, Jr.,
Associate Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General Counsel; Robert E. Feidler,
Legislative and Public Affairs Officer; Karen K. Siegel, Chief, Judicial Conference
Secretariat; Wendy Jennis, Deputy Chief, Judicial Conference Secretariat; Charles
W. Nihan, Chief, Long Range Planning Office; and David A. Sellers, Public
Information Officer. Judge William W Schwarzer and Russell R. Wheeler, Director
and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also attended the session of the
Conference, as did Robb Jones, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice,
Richard Schickele, Supreme Court Staff Counsel, and Judicial Fellows Mark Brown,
Rosann Greenspan, Margaret McCoin, and Harvey Rishikof.

                                    REPORTS
        Mr. Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office, reported to the
Conference on the judicial business of the courts and on matters relating to the
Administrative Office. Judge Schwarzer, Director of the Federal Judicial Center,
spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs, and Judge
Wilkins, Chairman of the United States Sentencing Commission, reported on
Commission activities.
              UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION
        The Judicial Conference approved the following additional names for
presentation to the President for appointment, subject to the advice and consent
of the Senate, of judges to fill vacancies on the United States Sentencing
Commission: Judges Peter Beer (Eastern District of Louisiana), Richard I?
Conaboy (Middle District of Pennsylvania), George I? Kazen (Southern District of
Texas), Donald E. OIBrien (Northern District of Iowa), Reena Raggi (Eastern District
of New York), Gerald Rosen (Eastern District of Michigan), Michael A. Telesca
(Western District of New York), and Mark Wolf (District of Massachusetts).

                          EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

                       FISCAL YEAR 1993 FINANCIAL PLAN

        In the face of an anticipated shortfall in the 1993 appropriation for fees of
jurors and the unlikelihood of enactment of a supplemental appropriation prior to
the exhaustion of juror fee funds, the Executive Committee agreed to reserve
sufficient funds to continue criminal trials through the end of the fiscal year, and
allow the payment of juror fees in civil cases until the remaining funds were
depleted. A supplemental appropriation to the fees of jurors account was signed
into law on July 2, 1993 (Public Law 103-50).

                JUDICIAL CONFERENCE COMMITTEE MATTERS

       Because of the integral relationship of facilities design and management to
court and judicial security, the Executive Committee agreed to merge the Court and
Judicial Security Committee and the Space and Facilities Committee. In addition,
the Executive Committee dischargedthe Committee to Review the Criminal Justice
Act, which had completed its work.

        In order to allow the Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and
Disability Orders to assume enhanced responsibility for overall administration and
evaluation of the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act (28 USC 9 372(c)), the
Executive Committee amended its jurisdictional statement. The Executive
Committee also approved jurisdictional statements for the Committee on
InternationalJudicial Relations and the Economy Subcommittee of the Committee
on the Budget, both of which were subsequently created by the Conference at this
session (see "Committee on International Judicial Relations," infra p. 60 and
"Economy Subcommittee," infra p. 42).
                                 PILOT PROGRAMS

        In order to avoid the situation where a pilot program is funded indefinitely
without assessment, the Executive Committee determined that any future request
for Judicial Conference approval to conduct a pilot program must include a sunset
provision and a plan for evaluation. In addition, each committee currently
monitoring or conducting a pilot programshould examine the pilot and recommend
to the Judicial Conference at its March 1994 session a sunset date, i.e., a date after
which the program will be either expanded or terminated.

                        'THREE BRANCH COORDINATION

        The Executive Committee agreed in concept with the idea of holding a
national conference with representatives from all three branches to study the
problems facing the federal court system and to develop the mission of the federal
courts. The end result of the process would be to establish practical guidelines to
channel decisions regarding the creation of new federal law and the reform of the
federal court system. The Committee further agreed that it would be advisable to
meet at least semi-annually with the Attorney General and high level Department
of Justice officials.



       On recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Judicial Conference
adoptedthe following resolution in recognition of the substantial contributions made
by the 11 Conference committee chairs who completed their terms of service in
October 1993:

             The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizeswith
       appreciation, respect, and admiration the following judicial officers:

                          Honorable I-loyd D. George
           Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System

                        Honorable Robert M. Parker
           Committee on Court Administration and Case Management

                           Honorable C. Arlen Beam
                    Committee on Court and Judicial Security

                          Honorable Vincent L. Broderick
                           Committee on Criminal Law
                  Honorable Julian A. Cook, Jr.
                Committee on Financial Disclosure

                  Honorable Wayne E. Alley
Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System

                  Honorable Robert E. Keeton
          Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure

                   Honorable Kenneth F. Ripple
              Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules

                    Honorable Edward Leavy
            Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules

                  Honorable Sam C. Pointer, Jr.
                Advisory Committee on Civil Rules

                 Honorable Wm. Terrell Hodges
              Advisory Committee on Criminal Rules

        Appointed as committee chairmen by Chief Justice
Rehnquist, these distinguished jurists have played a vital role in the
administration of the federal court system. These judges served as
leaders of their Judicial Conference committees while, at the same
time, continuing to perform in their regular capacities as judges in
their own courts. They have set a standard of skilled leadership and
earned our deep respect and sincere gratitudefor their innumerable
contributions. We acknowledge with appreciationtheir commitment
and dedicated service to the Judicial Conference and to the entire
federal judiciary.

                    MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

The Executive Committee:

Authorized a six-month video-conferencing pilot program to conduct
prisoner hearings in civil cases in the Central District of Illinois;

Approved Sentencing Institutes for the Tenth Circuit in Denver, Colorado,
August 16-18, 1993, and for the Fourth and Sixth Circuits in Durham, North
Carolina, on September 8-10, 1993, and approved the agendas for these
two Institutes;
Approved a twelve-month waiver for Midwest flood victims of all
miscellaneous bankruptcy fees associated with obtaining copies of
discharge orders and other documents required by the Federal Emergency
Management Administration in applying for emergency aid;

Authorized the Administrative Office to seek approval from Congress to use
funds from the PI1994 defender services appropriation for nine additional
positions and associated costs required to perform critically needed field
oversight for the federal defender program;

Noting no objections from Conference committee chairs, endorsed the
implementation of guidelines for access to, and dissemination of, Judicial
Conference reports and materials. These guidelines will be published in the
Judges Manual (Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, Volume III);

Delegated to the Director of the Administrative Office the discretion to re-
examine the policy of providing security coverage by the U.S. Marshals
Service at all Judicial Conference committee meetings and to explore with
the Marshals Service less costly options, if appropriate;

Authorized the Administrative Office to explore legislative options for
relocating the operations of the Vaccine Injury Act special masters;

Supported an amendment to 28 U.S.C. 5 251(b) to make the appointment
and term of the chief judge of the Court of International Trade consistent
with other Article Ill courts;

Discussed possible judicial officer appointments to the United States
Sentencing Commission (see also "United States Sentencing Commission,"
supra p. 36);

Endorsed an amendment to 28 U.S.C. 5 631, to provide the Judicial
Conference with the authority to establish magistrate judge positions in the
Districts of Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands;

Agreed to seek a technical change to draft legislation, the "Indian Tribal
Justice Act" (H.R. 1268, 103d Congress), such that the Chief Justice would
be designated to make the judicial appointments to a TribalJFederal Court
Review Study Panel;

Re-authorized courts to utilize existing funds to give cash bonus awards,
and authorized the payment of small cash bonuses in FY 1993 to certain
employees of the District Court for the District of Kansas for extraordinary
actions during a recent security crisis; and
       Agreed to change the date, from August 28 to October 1, that the terms of
       the district judge representativesto the Judicial Conference begin and end,
       effective in 1994.

          COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
         The Administrative Office Committee reported that it considered a number
of topics, including, amorlg others: Administrative Office (AO) support for
independent counsels and the District of Columbia Public Defender Service; cost-
containment initiatives and proposals for reconfiguring the federal judiciary;
legislative activities; relationsbetweenthe judiciary and other governmentalentities;
A0 managementtopics; communicationswith clerks of court and advisory groups;
program assessment activities; and long range planning. After consideration of the
current and future budget picture for the judiciary and the AO, the Committee
endorsed inclusion of funding for the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building
in the appropriation account used to fund other judiciary buildings.

          COMMITTEE ON AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGY

                          PROCUREMENT LEGISLATION

       Proposed legislation,the Federal Acquisition ImprovementAct of 1993 (H.R.
2238, 103d Congress), which would amend laws relating to federal procurement,
provides for an increase in the small purchase threshold for executive branch
agencies from $25,000 to $50,000, with an indexing adjustment to be made to that
amount every five years to maintain the threshold constant in 1990 dollars. The
Judicial Conference approved the Automation and Technology Committee's
recommendation that legislation be sought to authorize the judiciary likewise to
increase the small purchase threshold.

                 COMMITTEE ON THE ADMlNlSrRATlON
                    OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                    ADDITIONAL BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

      The Bankruptcy Committee conducted a comprehensive review of the
requests by circuit judicial councils for new bankruptcy judgeships and
recommended approval of 19 additional bankruptcy judgeships. The Judicial
Conference approved this recommendation as follows:
                               Presently Authorized           Additional Judgeships
    District                      Judgeships                    Recommended

New York, Eastern                                                 1 permanent
New York, Northern                                                1 temporary
New York, Southern                                                1 permanent
                                                                  1 temporary
New Jersey                                                        1 permanent
Pennsylvania, Eastern                                             1 permanent
Maryland                                                          1 permanent
Virginia, Eastern                                                 1 permanent
Mississippi, Southern                                             1 temporary
Michigan, Eastern                                                 1 permanent
Arizona                                                           1 temporary
California, Central                                               4 permanent
California, Eastern                                               1 temporary
California, Northern                                              1 permanent
California, Southern                                              1 temporary
Florida, Southern                                                 1 permanent

                               IN FORMA PAUPERIS

        Certain members of Congress have expressed an interest in enacting an in
forma pauperis (IFP) provision for bankruptcy debtors. The Bankruptcy Committee
believes that, except in isolated instances, the filing fee requirement has not denied
access to the bankruptcy courts, and that an IFP provision in bankruptcy would be
disruptive and detrimental to the federal court system as a whole.

        Acting on recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
recommended that Congress fund a pilot study to assess accurately the full impact
of an in forma pauperis provision on the bankruptcy courts, with the understanding
that no pilot project could be undertaken unless the Congress provided additional
and adequate funding to defray the costs of the study (including the need for
additional support staff in the pilot districts) and the loss of revenue to the system
resulting from the waiver of filing fees. 'The Conference expressed its concern
about the implementation of an in forma pauperis provision in bankruptcy but
deferred taking a formal position pending completion of the pilot study or empirical
survey.

                   CHANGE OF BANKRLIPTCY DUTY STATION

        Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 5 152(b)(l), the Judicial Conference is responsible
for determining the official duty stations of bankruptcy judges and their places of
holding court. At the request of the Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of
California and the Judicial Council of the Ninth Circuit and on the recommendation
of the Bankruptcy Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the transfer of
three bankruptcy judgeships from Los Angeles to the San Fernando Valley, to be
located within a ten mile radius of Van Nuys, California.

                  REAPPOINTMENT OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

        The Bankruptcy Committee suggested that the process for filling vacancies
in bankruptcy judgeships set out in the Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal
Judgeship Act of 1984 (Public Law 98353), may discourage incumbentjudges who
have served the full 14-year term from re-applying. It might be equally unfair to
other potential candidates and to a merit screening committee to put them through
a futile exercise if the incumbent were clearly the best person for the job. The
Bankruptcy Committee recommended that a procedure similar to that used for
magistrate judges, which involves a citizen review panel and an opportunity for
comment by the public, would be both fair and practical for the reappointment of
bankruptcy judges. The Judicial Conference agreed and will seek legislation to
permit a circuit to reappoint an incumbent bankruptcy judge to a 14-year term of
office without considering other qualified candidates.

                       COMMllTEE ON THE BUDGET

                           ECONOMY SUBCOMMITTEE

       In an effort to respond to Congressional concerns and to establish a more
permanent, analytical, and systematic means of developing final budget estimates,
the Budget Committee proposed the creation of an Economy Subcommittee. The
Judicial Conference endorsed the proposal.

        ALTERNATIVE BUDGET REQUEST FOR 'THE FISCAL YEAR 1995

        Anticipating the need to reduce the judiciary's budget request below the full
funding level in this period of federal deficit reduction initiatives, the Budget
Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved alternative, or
lower, budget estimates for the fiscal year 1995, subject to amendments necessary
as a result of (1) new legislation, (2) actions of the Judicial Conference, or (3) any
other reason the Director of the Administrative Office considers necessary and
appropriate.

                     UNCLAIMED COURT REGISTRY FUNDS

        The Judicial Conference supported a Budget Committee proposal to seek
legislation authorizingthe judiciary to (1) consolidate unclaimed court registry funds
into a single interest-bearing account to be administered by the Administrative
Office, and (2) retain interest on those funds consistent with the percentage of
interest withheld on other registry funds.
                  COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

        The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report to
the Conference in March 1993, it received 44 new written inquiries and issued 46
written advisory responses. 'The Chairman received and responded to 49
telephonic inquiries. In addition, individual Committee members responded to 73
inquiries from their colleagues.

                               ETHICS REFORM ACT

        The Judicial Conference approved the recommendation of the Committee
on Codes of Conduct to make technical amendments to the Ethics Reform Act
regulations. These amendments include: (1) updating the name of the Court of
Federal Claims; (2) clarifying in the Commentary that 5 5C(4) of the Code of
Conduct for United States Judges is the basis for 5 3(a) of the Gift Regulations
rather than Canon 4D(5) of the proposed American Bar Association Model Code
of Judicial Conduct; and (3) revising the definition of judicial officer or senior
employee in 9 2(b) of the Outside Earned Income, Honoraria, and Outside
Employment Regulations.

               CODE OF CONDUCT FOR UNITED STATES JUDGES

         The Compliance Section of the Code of Conduct for United States Judges
generally prohibits part-time judges from practicing law "in the court on which the
judge serves or in any court subject to the appellate jurisdiction of the court on
which the judge serves." Because this provision is inconsistent with the Conflict-of-
 Interest Rules for Part-time Magistrate Judges, Rules 1 and 7, which permit part-
time magistrate judges to engage in a limited civil practice in the district court to
which they are assigned, the Judicial Conference approved a conforming
amendment to section A.(2) of the Compliance Section of the Code of Conduct for
United States Judges.

                COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
                      AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                       CIVIL JUSTICE REFORM ACT OF 1993

         Section 3 of the recently-introducedCivil Justice ReformAct of 1993 (S. 585,
 103rd Congress), while similar to Rule 68 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,
differs from the Civil Rule in that it (1) allows any party to an action to make an offer
of judgment rather than just the defendant; (2) provides the adverse party 14 days
in which to accept the offer before it is deemed withdrawn, rather than the ten days
that Rule 68 allows; and (3) requires the payment of an offeror's reasonable
attorney fees by an offeree who does not accept an offer and who obtains a final
judgment which is not more favorable than the offer. On recommendation of the
Committee on Court Administrationand Case Management,the Judicial Conference
supported in principle the substance of section 3 of the proposed Act, but referred
to the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure the issue of whether the
matter is more appropriately within the authority of federal rules. 'The Rules
Committee is to report on the matter to the March 1994 session of the Judicial
Conference.

       The Judicial Conference agreed with the recommendation of the Court
Administration and Case Management Committee to support section 5(b) of the
proposed Act, which would amend 28 U.S.C. 9 1915(d) by adding "failure to state
a claim upon which relief can be granted" as a cause for dismissal.

        Section 5 of the proposed Civil Justice Reform Act of 1993would amend the
Civil Rights of InstitutionalizedPersons Act (42 U.S.C. 9 1997(e)) to direct the courts
to continue any action brought by an inmate pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9 1983 for up
to 180 days in order to extend the period required for exhausting administrative
remedies. On recommendation of the Committee, which was concerned about the
impact of this section on the manner in which many courts process these types of
cases, the Conference opposed the amendment. As an alternative, the Conference
offered the provisions included in the judiciary's "housekeeping bill," which would
allow a case to be continued for up to 120 days rather than the 180 days
contemplated by the proposed Act. Further, the housekeeping provisions would
allow a judge to determine if the administrative procedures are "otherwise fair and
effective," eliminating the need to wait for certification by the Attorney General.

                       MISCELLANEOUS FEE SCHEDULES

        At its March 1990session, the Judicial Conference approved an amendment
to the miscellaneous fee schedules for district and bankruptcy courts to provide a
fee for electronic access to court data (JCUS-Mar 90, p.21). The Committee on
Court Administration and Case Management believed that the policy with respect
to fees for similar services in the federal courts should be consistent and,
accordingly, there should be afee for electronic access to court data for the courts
of appeals.

         However, while the costs of implementing a billing system in the courts of
appeals for the Public Access to Electronic Records System (PACER) used by the
district and bankruptcy courts (or for a similar alternative public access system)
would be modest, only a small number of appellate courts offer PACER, and the
usage rates of the appellate PACER system are low. Some appellate courts utilize
avery different electronic access system called Appellate Court Electronic Services
(ACES) (formerly known as Electronic Dissemination of Opinions System (EDOS)).
The Committee determined that, at this time, the costs of implementing and
operating a billing and fee collection system for electronic access to the
ACESIEDOS system would outweigh the benefit of the revenues to be generated.
         'Thus, on recommendationof the Committee,the Judicial Conference agreed
to amend the miscellaneousfee schedule for appellate courts promulgated under
28 U.S.C. 3 1913 to provide a fee for usage of electronic access to court data, but
to limit the application of the fee to users of PACER and other similar electronic
access systems, with no fee to be applied to users of ACESIEDOS at the present
time. The Conference further agreed to delegate to the Director of the
Administrative Office the authority to determine the appropriate date to implement
the fee, to ensure that usage rates warrant the administrative expense of collecting
the fee and that the appropriate software and the billing and fee collection
procedures are developed prior to implementation in the appellate courts.

                     INTERPRETER TEST APPLICATION FEES

        Since 1985, the Administrative Office, which is responsible under 28 U.S.C.
3 1827 for the development and administration of interpreter certification
examinations, has contracted with the University of Arizona to perform this function.
Due to concerns raised about the legal validity of language in the contract
permitting the contractor to collect and budget funds without clear statutory
authorization, the Judicial Conference approved a recommendation by the Court
Administration and Case Management Committee that legislation be sought to
authorize the Administrative Office to prescribe fees for the development and
administration of interpreter certification examinations and permit a contractor to
collect fees and apply them as payment for services under the contract.

                               FILING BY FACSIMILE

       After consideration of the conflicting recommendations of three of its
Committees,the Judicial Conference referred to the Committee on Rules of Practice
and Procedure, in coordination with the Court Administration and Case
Management and the Automation and Technology Committees, the question of
whether, and under what technical guidelines, filing by facsimile on a routine basis
should be permitted. A report on the issue should be made to the September 1994
Judicial Conference.

                                   ARBITRATION

        At the request of the Committee on Court Administration and Case
Management, the Judicial Conference reconsidered its March 1993 decision not to
support legislation authorizing the expansion of mandatory arbitration (JCUS-MAR
93, p. 12). The Conference again declined to support the enactment of legislation
that would provide authorizationto all federal courts to utilize mandatory arbitration
at the courts' discretion.
                    VIDEOTAPING OF COURT PROCEEDINGS

        From January 1991 until December 1992, a Judicial Conference-approved
experiment (JCUS-SEP 88, p. 83) was conducted to determine the viability of
videotape as a method of recording court proceedings and for use as the record
on appeal. Based on an evaluation of the program conducted by the Federal
Judicial Center, the Committee determined that the use of videotape as the record
on appeal is neither feasible nor desirable at this time. However, the Committee
recommended, and the Conference agreed, that the six district courts which
participated in the videotape experiment be permitted to continue to utilize
videotape as a method of recording court proceedings without the simultaneous
use of other methods and create the record on appeal by transcription of the
videotape.

           COMMITTEE ON COURT AND JUDICIAL SECURITY

         The Committee on Court and Judicial Security reportedthat, due to the tight
budget situation the Director of the United States Marshals Service anticipates that
for fiscal year 1994there will be no new program expansion above the current level
of services and that he has imposed a freeze on all hiring, promotions, and travel
in order to fund essential services, such as the protection of the judiciary The
Committeefurther reportedthat it has requestedthat a study be done of the current
allocation of court security officers in light of recently-developedstaffing standards,
for the purpose of formulating a plan for the reallocation of court security officer
positions to provide an equitable level of security among the districts.

                      COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW

                       MANDATORY MINIMUM SENTENCES

       Proposed legislation, the Controlled Substances Minimum Penalty -
Sentencing Guideline ReconciliationAct of 1993, presented by the Chairman of the
U.S. Sentencing Commission would attempt to reconcile mandatory minimum
sentences with the sentencing guidelines. The Committee on Criminal Law
believedthat, although the proposed legislationwould not solve all of the problems
associated with mandatory minimum sentences, it addresses the essential
incompatibility of mandatory minimums and sentencing guidelines and represents
a promising approach. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
Conference endorsed the concept contained in the proposed legislation as being
consistent with its previous position opposing mandatory minimum penalties.
             ANNUAL REPORT TO THE SENTENCING COMMISSION

       Under 28 U.S.C. 9 994(0), the Judicial Conference and the United States
Probation System are required to submit annually a written report to the United
States Sentencing Commission. 'The Judicial Conference approved the Annual
Report of the Judicial Conference to the United States Sentencing Commission for
submission to the Commission.

                  PUBLICATION 107, THE PRESENTENCE REPORT

       The Judicial Conference approved Chapter Ill, "Presentence Report for an
Organization Defendant," of Publication 107, The Presentence Report, for
publication and distribution to probation officers. 'The chapter sets forth the format
of the presentence report and provides direction to probation officers in the
preparation of a corporate or organizational report.

                UNITED STATES PRETRIAL SERVICES SUPERVISION

         The Judicial Conference approved for publication and distribution to pretrial
services officers the monographentitled United States Pretrial Services Supervision,
which is designed to establish standardsfor the supervision of defendants while in
pretrial status.

                       BLOOD-BORNE PKTHOGENS POLICY

        The judiciary is not bound by standards recently released by the
Occupational Safety and HealthAdministration (OSHA) that are designed to protect
employees from occupational exposure to Hepatitis B (HBV) and Human
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), both of which are blood-borne pathogens. On
recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial Conference
agreed to transmit a copy of the OSHA standards, along with a sample exposure
control plan, to all chief probation and pretrial services officers, for their utilization
in developing an exposure control plan for each urine collection site in their district.

     STATEMENT ON THE PROBATION AND PRETRIAL SERVICES SYSTEM

       The Committee on Criminal Law sought and obtained endorsement by the
Judicial Conference of a statement entitled "Federal Probation and Pretrial Services
System." The statement will be distributed to personnel in probation and pretrial
services offices.
                 COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
               CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT GUIDELINES AMENDMENT

        Since 1972, at Judicial Conference direction, the Administrative Office has
produced a regular report on Criminal Justice Act (CJA) panel attorneys earning in
excess of a certain amount during the reporting period. The amount has been
increasedfour times, and the reporting period has been extendedtwice, going from
quarterly to annually. The Committee on Defender Services determined that
expressing the threshold amount in terms of the number of hours of services
rendered rather than the amount of compensation paid would eliminate the
reporting disparities associated with geographic and inlout-of-court hourly
maximums. Such a change could also reduce the need for future adjustments to
the reporting requirement, which might otherwise be required if the hourly attorney
compensation rates were to be increased. The Judicial Conference agreed and
amended its current policy (which had required a report to chief judges of those
attorneys receiving more than $50,000 in CJA compensation in any fiscal year) to
require a report to chief judges of those attorneys claiming compensation for more
than 1,000 hours of work in any fiscal year. The Conference amended the Criminal
Justice Act Guidelines to incorporate the revised compensation reporting policy.

            COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
                         IN-STATE PLAINTIFF DIVERSITY

         The Judicial Conference has a long-standing position supporting the
complete abolition of diversity jurisdiction. However, because of the reluctance of
Congress to agree to this, the Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction decided to
review more limited proposals to reduce federal civil caseloads. The Committee
concluded that it would be beneficial to separate the proposal to eliminate in-state
plaintiff jurisdiction from the more comprehensive and controversial issue of
complete abolition of diversity jurisdiction. The Judicial Conference approved the
Committee's recommendation that the Conference reaffirm its position to seek
repeal of in-state plaintiff jurisdiction, transmit the position to Congress separate
from its often-stated position of supporting repeal of general diversity jurisdiction,
and propose an amendment to 28 U.S.C. 5 1332 as follows:

                (e) The original jurisdiction of the district courts otherwise
       conferred by this section may not be invoked if any plaintiff joined
       in the complaint is a citizen of the state in which is located the
       district court in which the suit is filed. For purposes of this
       subsection only, the District of Wyoming shall be deemed located
       solely within the State of Wyoming. This subsection does not apply
       to or limit the applicability of the right of removal under section
       1441(a) of an action that would otherwise be within the original
       jurisdiction of the district courts.

                               VENUE PROVISIONS

         The Judicial Conference endorsed the Federal-State Jurisdiction
Committee's recommendation that Congress amend 28 U.S.C. 9 1391(a)(3) to
clarify that, in a multi-defendant case to which the subsection applies, venue lies
so long as anv defendant is subject to personal jurisdiction, not only when gilJ
defendants are subject to personal jurisdiction. The amendment would delete the
words "the defendants are" and substitute the words "any defendant is." 'The
Conference also approved the Committee's recommendation to propose a repeal
of 28 U.S.C. 9 1392(a) as redundant because of recent amendments to
§§ 1391(a)(l) and (b)(l).

                COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

       The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of July 1993, it had
received 2,497 financial disclosure reports and certifications for the calendar year
1992, including 1,074 reports and certifications from justices and Article Ill judges,
285 from bankruptcy judges, 395 from magistrate judges, and 743 from judicial
employees.

            COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
       The Committee on lntercircuit Assignments reported that during the period
January 1, 1993, through June 30, 1993, 92 intercircuit assignments were
recommended by the Committee and approved by the Chief Justice to be
undertaken by 68 Article Ill judges.

                 COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
                             IAW CLERK INTERVIEWS

       In an effort to improve the law clerk hiring process, the Judicial Conference
voted to recommend to all judicial officers that March 1 of the year before a
clerkship begins be the benchmark starting date for law clerk interviews.

                 COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES

                  COURT PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

       Noting that the current Judiciary Salary Plan is unduly complex, inflexible,
and slow to respond to change and that there are currently no established job
evaluation standards or criteria for evaluating differences between, or the relative
worth of, jobs in the courts, the Committee on Judicial Resources proposed that it
be replaced by a new Court Personnel Management System (CPMS). The Judicial
Conference approved the CPMS, which as proposed applies to all court positions
except court unit executives and their seconds-in-command, chambers staff, and
court reporters. The Conference further approved decentralization of the CPMS to
the unit level and agreed that initially, the Administrative Office will be responsible
for classifying positionswhile participating court sites and the Administrative Office
develop operational policies and procedures.

                                   LOCALITY PAY

       The Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990 (FEPCA) (Public Law
101-509) provides for a locality pay program for General Schedule (GS) executive
branch employees. FEPCA changes the way pay is set for GS employees in the
continental United States, and sets January 1994 as the implementation date. On
recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, the Judicial Conference
approved locality pay for the courts in the same amounts, areas, and at the same
time as in the executive branch, with coverage extending to employee groups
comparable to those covered in the executive branch.

                          CIRCUIT EXECUTIVE OFFICES

       The Judicial Conference approved for inclusion in the fiscal year 1995
budget request three additional permanent positions for circuit executives' offices.
Each circuit's request is within the staffing ceiling for its office established by the
Judicial Conference in September 1991 (JCUS-SEP 91, p. 63).

                  ADDITIONAL COURT REPORTER POSITIONS

      On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved
one additional court reporter position for the Eastern District of Wisconsin.

                   GRADES OF CERTAIN COURT UNIT HEADS

         Currently, grades for clerks of the district and bankruptcy courts and for
chief probation and pretrial services officers are determined annually based on
projected workload data (see JCUS-MAR 87, p. 7; JCUS-MAR 89, p. 21; and JCUS-
SEP 91, p. 63). Because of problems encountered in using projected data, staffing
allocations are made based on actualfilings. Recognizing a direct link between the
size of the office and the grade of the unit head,the Judicial Conference authorized
the Administrative Office to determine the grades of the clerks of the district and
bankruptcy courts and the chief probation and pretrial services officers based on
the same workload data used to allocate positions to the various court offices.
                  GRADES OF DEPUTY CIRCUIT LIBRARIANS

     The Judicial Conference disapproved a Judicial Resources Committee
recommendation to increasethe target grade for deputy circuit librariansto JSP-15.

               COMMITTEE ON LONG RANGE PLANNING
      . .
     In response to recommendations made by the Long Range Planning
Committee, the Judicial Conference took the following actions:

       Reaffirmed the federal judiciary's historical commitment to the
       principle that the jurisdiction of the federal courts should be limited,
       complementing and not supplanting the jurisdiction of the state
       courts.

       Endorsed the principle that the size of the Article Ill judiciary should
       be limited to the number necessary to exercise such jurisdiction,
       thus allowing a policy of carefully controlled growth.

       Reaffirmed the September 1990 position favoring "a relatively small
       Article Ill judiciary . . . but oppos[ing] any efforts to set a maximum
       limit on the number of Article Ill judgeships" (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 93).

       Requested the Committee on Judicial Resources, assisted by the
       Federal Judicial Center and the Administrative Office of the United
       States Courts, to devise expeditiously an updated, comprehensive
       method for evaluating needs for permanent circuit judgeships,
       including reexamination of caseload formulas and standards.

       Duringthe period of expedited review and consideration, determined
       to make no request to the Congress for additional permanent circuit
       judgeships pending (1) reexamination of the process, including the
        caseload formula and standards, for requesting new permanent
       circuit judgeships; and (2) completion of the Long Range Planning
       Committee's final recommendations on jurisdiction, structure, and
       size of the federal courts.

       Determined that the nine additional circuit judgeships approved by
       the Conference in September 1992, but not yet acted upon by the
       Congress, should be temporary, rather than permanent judgeships,
       and that ten temporary judgeships for the Ninth Circuit would also
       be included in this request to Congress.

       Agreed to request, if necessary as an interim emergency measure,
       a limited number of temporary judgeships to meet an immediate
        workload crisis in a court of appeals, based on up-to-date interim
        criteria developed by the Judicial Resources Committee.

a       Agreed to defer requesting replacement of any temporary circuit
        judgeships with permanent judgeships pending (1) exploration of
        the existence and feasibility of other means to avoid the need for an
        increase in permanent judgeships, including the infusion of visiting
        judges to reduce existing backlogs; and (2) reexamination of the
        process, including the caseload formula and standards, for
        requesting new permanent circuit judgeships.

            COMMllTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                  MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                  RECALL OF RETIRED MAGISTRA'TE JUDGES

        The Judicial Conference of the United States approved amendments to
sections 8 and 9 of the "Regulationsof the Judicial Conference of the United States
Governing the Extended Service Recall of Retired United States MagistrateJudges"
and sections 11 and 12 of the "Regulationsof the Judicial.Conference of the United
States Establishing Standards and Procedures for the Recall of Retired United
States Magistrate Judges". 'The amendments provide flexibility for each court and
circuit council to determine whether, and at what level, to provide staff, facilities,
lawbooks and supplies to recalled magistratejudges. The amendments make clear
that the level of such support is to be tied directly to the volume and nature of the
work the recalled magistrate judges are expected to perform.

                 CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

        After considerationof the report of the Committee and the recommendations
of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial
councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrate judge positions.
Changes with a budgetary impact are to be effective when appropriated funds are
available.



Maine

        Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        magistrate judge positions in the district.
New Hampshire

       Made no change in the number of positions, or the location or arrangement
       of the existing magistrate judge position in the district.



Vermont

       Made no change in the number of positions, or the location or arrangement
       of the existing magistrate judge position in the district.



Pennsylvania, Middle

1.     Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Stroudsburg on
       December 31, 1993, as scheduled; and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.



Maryland

1.     Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Upper Marlboro to a
       full-time magistrate judge position at Greenbelt or Prince Georges Plaza;

2.     Redesignated the existing full-time magistrate judge position at Prince
       Georges Plaza as Prince Georges Plaza or Greenbelt;

3.     Redesignated, at the court's option, one of the full-time magistrate judge
       positions at Baltimore as Baltimore or Greenbelt or Prince Georges Plaza;
       and

4.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.

North Carolina, Middle

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.
Virginia, Western

       Authorized the full-time magistratejudge at Abingdon in the Western District
       of Virginia to serve in the adjoining Eastern District of Tennessee and in the
       adjoining Eastern District of Kentucky in accordance with 28 U.S.C.
       $631(a).

West Virginia, Northern

1.     Increasedthe salary of the part-time magistratejudge position at Wheeling
       from $30,960 per annum to $41,280 per annum; and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.



Louisiana, Western

       lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge. position at Monroe
       from $5,160 per annum to $10,320 per annum.

Mississippi, Northern

1.     Authorized a full-time magistrate judge position at Oxford;

2.     Discontinued the clerk/magistrate judge position at Oxford upon the
       appointment of a full-time magistrate judge at Oxford; and

3.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.

Texas, Eastern

1.     Discontinued the part-time magistratejudge position at Texarkana upon the
       expiration of the current term of the incumbent; and

2.     Authorized the full-time magistratejudge positions at Sherman and Tyler in
       the Eastern District of Texas to serve in the adjoining Western District of
       Arkansas.
Kentucky, Eastern

      Authorized the full-time magistrate judge at Lexington in the Eastern District
      of Kentucky to serve in the adjoining Eastern District of Tennessee and in
      the adjoining Western District of Virginia in accordance with 28 U.S.C.
      § 631 (a).

Tennessee, Eastern

      Authorized the full-time magistrate judges at Knoxville, Knoxville or
      Chattanooga, Chattanooga, and Greeneville in the Eastern District of
      Tennessee to serve in the adjoining Western District of Virginia and in the
      adjoining Eastern District of Kentucky in accordance with 28 U.S.C.
      § 631 (a).




Arkansas, Eastern

      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
      magistrate judge positions in the district.

Arkansas, Western

      Authorized the full-time magistrate judge position at Hot Springs or El
      Dorado or Texarkana in the Western District of Arkansas to serve in the
      adjoining Eastern District of Texas.

North Dakota

1.    Authorized a part-time magistrate judge position at Bismarck or Minot with
      an annual salary of $51,600 and discontinued the present part-timeposition
      at Bismarck upon the appointment of the new magistrate judge;

2.    Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Minot upon the
      appointment of the new magistrate judge; and

3.    Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
      other magistrate judge positions in the district.
Arizona

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Tucson;

2.     Authorized an additional full-time magistratejudge position at Phoenix; and

3.      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        other magistrate judge positions in the district.

California, Eastern

1.      Increased the salary of the full-time magistrate judge position at Yosemite
        National Park from $86,038 to the maximum salary paid to a full-time
        magistrate judge; and

2.      Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Bishop upon the
        increase in salary of the full-time magistrate judge at Yosemite.

            DESIGNATION OF NEW FULL-TIME MAGISTRATE JUDGE
                  POSITION FOR ACCELERATED FUNDING

       The accelerated funding program was established to provide prompt
magistrate judge assistance to judicial districts seriously affected by drug filings or
the Civil Justice Reform Act. Based on the recommendation of the Committee on
the Magistrate Judges System, the Judicial Conference approved the new position
in Tucson, Arizona, for accelerated funding in fiscal year 1994.

               COMMITTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
                 CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS

        The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders
reported that the National Commission on Judicial Discipline and Removal, whose
work it has been following closely, filed its final report on August 2, 1993. The
Commission studied the impeachment process and examined the current judicial
disciplinary system, which was developed pursuant to the Judicial Councils Reform
and Judicial Conduct and Disability Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-458). Its report
basically endorsed existing constitutional arrangements in all respects and
concluded that the judiciary had, on the whole, utilized the 1980 Act properly and
policed itself fairly,
      COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
                                APPELLATE RULES

         'The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Rules 1 ("Scope of Rules and Title"),
3 ("Appeal as of Right - How Taken"), 5 ("Appeal by Permission under 28 U.S.C.
9 1292(b)"), 5.1 ("Appeal by Permission Under 28 U.S.C. $636(c)(5)"), 9 ("Release
in a Criminal Case"), 13 ("Review of a Decision of the Tax Court"), 21 ("Writs of
Mandamus and Prohibition Directed to a Judge or Judges and Other Extraordinary
Writs"), 25 ("Filing and Service"), 26.1 ("Corporate Disclosure Statement"), 27
("Motions"), 28 ("Briefs"), 30 ("Appendix to the Briefs"), 31 ("Filing and Service of a
Brief'), 33 ("Appeal Conferences"), 35 ("Determination of Causes by the Court in
Banc"), 38 ("Damages and Costs for Frivolous Appeals"), 40 ("Petition for
Rehearing"),41 ("Issuance of Mandate; Stay of Mandate"),and 48 ("Masters") of the
Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure. The proposed amendments were
accompanied by the Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The
Conference approved the amendments for transmission to the Supreme Court for
consideration, with the recommendation that they be approved by the Court and
transmitted to Congress pursuant to law.

                               BANKRLIPTCY RULES

        The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 8002 ("Time for
Filing Notice of Appeal"), and 8006 ("Record and Issues on Appeal"), together with
Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. These amendments were
approved by the Conference, which authorized their transmittal to the Supreme
Court for consideration, with the recommendation that they be adopted by the
Court and transmitted to Congress pursuant to law.

                                 CRIMINAL RULES

       The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Criminal Rules 16 ("Discovery and
Inspection"), 29 ("Motion for Judgment of Acquittal"), 32 ("Sentence and
Judgment"), and 40 ("Commitment to Another District") of the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure. Advisory notes explaining their purpose and intent were
transmitted with the proposals. The Conference approved these amendments and
authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court for consideration, with the
recommendation that they be approved by the Court and transmitted to Congress
pursuant to law.
                                EVIDENCE RULES

        The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Judicial Conference a proposed amendment to Rule 412 ("Admissibility of Alleged
Victim's Sexual Behavior or Alleged Sexual Predisposition") of the Federal Rules of
Evidence, together with Committee notes explaining its purpose and intent. The
Conference approved the amendment for transmission to the Supreme Court for
consideration, with the recommendation that it be approved by the Court and
transmitted to Congress pursuant to law.

                COMMlTrEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
       On recommendation of the Space and Facilities Committee, the Judicial
Conference amended as follows the United States Courts Design Guide, effective
with respect to projects in which the concept planning phase of the design will
begin on or after October 1, 1993:

       1)      Added and changed language concerning interpretation of the
               Guide and the need to consider fiscal implications of court
               construction projects;

       2)      Added language concerning space requirements in privately leased
               buildings, in order to provide maximum flexibility to the General
               Services Administration (GSA), lessors, and courts when selecting
               leased space;

       3)      Revised or eliminated certain space standards to avoid duplicate
               types of spaces throughout a court facility and to minimize cost,
               where appropriate. These changes include the following:

               a)     Revised the space standard for restroom facilities in judges'
                      chambers suites;

               b)     Elirninated the space standard for meetingltraining rooms
                      and added language throughout the Guide to emphasize
                      shared use of conference rooms, staff lounges, and staff
                      toilets by court offices;

               c)     Eliminated the requirement for a separate emergency exit
                      stairwell for judicial and prisoner egress;

               d)     Changed the term "galleys" to "service units" throughout the
                      Guide;
