March 15, 1994


            The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in
     Washington, D.C., on March 15, 1994, pursuant to t h e call of the Chief
     Justice of the United States issued under 28 U.S.C. 5 331. The Chief Justice
     presided, and the following members of the Conference were present:

            First Circuit:

                   Chief Judge Stephen G. Breyer
                   Judge Francis J. Boyle,
                          District of Rhode Island

            Second Circuit:

                   Chief Judge Jon 0.Newman
                   Judge Charles L. Brieant,
                          Southern District of New York

            Third Circuit:

                   Chief Judge Dolores K. Sloviter
                   Chief Judge John E Gerry,
                          District of New Jersey

           Fourth Circuit:

                   Chief Judge Sam J. Ervin, I11
                   Judge W Earl Britt,
                          Eastern District of North Carolina

           Fifth Circuit:

                   Chief Judge Henry A. Politz
                   Chief Judge Morey L. Sear,
                          Eastern District of Louisiana
Judicial Conferenceof the United States


                   Sixth Circuit:

                            Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt
                            Chief Judge Thomas D. Lambros,
                                   Northern District of Ohio

                   Seventh Circuit:

                             Chief Judge Richard A. Posner
                             Chief Judge Barbara B. Crabb,
                                    Western District of Wisconsin

                   Eighth Circuit:

                             Chief Judge Richard S. Arnold
                             Judge Donald E. O'Brien,
                                    Northern District of Iowa

                   Ninth Circuit:

                             Chief Judge J. Clifford Wallace
                             Chief Judge Wm. Matthew Byrne, Jr.,
                                    Central District of California

                   Tenth Circuit:

                             Chief Judge Stephanie K. Seymour
                             Judge Richard F? Matsch,
                                    District of Colorado

                   Eleventh Circuit:'

                             Judge William Terrell Hodges
                                   Middle District of Florida




               'Chief Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat was unable to attend.
                                                                  March 15, 1994


       District of Columbia Circuit:

              Chief Judge Abner J. Mikva
              Chief Judge John Garrett Penn,
                     District of Columbia

       Federal Circuit

              Chief Judge Helen W. Nies

       Court of International Trade:

              Chief Judge Dominick L. DiCarlo

       Circuit Judges Levin H. Campbell, Douglas Ginsburg, Deanell Reece
Tacha, and William W. Wilkins, Jr., and District Judges Maryanne Trump
Bany, Robert C. Broomfield, Paul A. Magnuson, Alicemarie H. Stotler, and
Rya W. Zobel attended the Conference session. Circuit Executives Steven
Flanders, Toby Slawsky, Samuel W. Phillips, Lydia Comberrel, James A.
Higgins, Collins T Fitzpatrick, June L. Boadwine, Gregory B. Walters,
Eugene J. Murret, Norman E. Zoller, and Linda Finkelstein were also
present.

       Senators Joseph R. Biden, Jr., Charles E. ~rassley,and Orrin G.
Hatch, and Representative William J. Hughes spoke to the Conference on
matters pending in Congress of interest to the judiciary. Solicitor General
Drew S. Days I11 addressed the Conference on matters of mutual interest to
the Department of Justice and the Conference.

        L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence A. Lee,
Jr., Associate Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General Counsel; Karen K.
Siegel, Chief, Judicial Conference Secretariat; Robert E. Feidler, Legislative
and Public Affairs Officer; Wendy Jennis, Deputy Chief, Judicial Conference
Secretariat; and David A. Sellers, Public Information Officer, Judge William
W Schwarzer and Russell R. Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the
Federal Judicial Center, also attended the session of the Conference, as did
Robb Jones, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice, Richard Schickele,
Supreme Court Staff Counsel, and Judicial Fellows Mark Brown, Rosann
Greenspan, Margaret McCoin, and Harvey Rishikof.
Judicial Conferenceof the United States




                Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of
         the courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office. Judge
         Schwarzer spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs
         and Judge Wilkins, Chairman of the United States Sentencing Commission,
         reported on Sentencing Commission activities.




                 Reacting to concerns initially expressed by a representative group of
         court unit managers about uneven staffing levels, the Executive Committee,
         in August 1993, requested that a plan be developed to address these
         disparities in support offices in the courts. On recommendation of the
         Judicial Resources Committee, the Executive Committee approved a staffing
         equalization plan to reduce or eliminate excess positions. The plan includes
         a target date of October 1,1994, beyond which no central funding will be
         provided for positions over a target equalization percentage. The Committee
         also approved a recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee that
         staffing equalization bonuses in amounts up to 15 percent of the employee's
         base pay, not to exceed $7,500, be authorized for individuals employed in
         offices staffed over a target level who relocate to accept positions in offices
         staffed under a target level.

                 The Executive Committee approved for transmission to Congress, as
         requested, a "Report by the Judicial Conference of the United States to the
         Senate and House Appropriations Committees Concerning the Equalization
         of Staffing Levels Among the Various Federal Courts."




                The Executive Committee took the following actions on human
         resources matters: (1) on recommendation of the Judicial Resources
         Committee, approved immediate implementation of a new bankruptcy clerks'
         work measurement formula for redistribution purposes only, without any
         increase in overall positions in fiscal year 1994 (see also "Bankruptcy Clerks'
         Work Measurement Formula," infra pp. 21-22); (2) agreed to allow full
         implementation of the district clerks' work measurement formula, also for
                                                                  March 16, 1QQ4


redistribution purposes only, with the understanding that this will result in
no additional positions or funding in fiscal year 1994; (3) adhered to the
previous position of the Judicial Conference which authorized locality pay
(JCUS-SEP 93, p. 50), and agreed that court unit executives would be eligible
to receive locality pay provided the executive branch extended such pay to its
own executives; and (4) endorsed a recommendation of the Judicial Resources
Committee to place a temporary freeze on hiring or promoting law clerks at
any grade higher than JSP-13 until the Judicial Resources Committee can
make further recommendations on chambers stffing, except where a judge
certifies in writing that he or she has made an oral or written commitment
prior to February 21,1994, to hire a law clerk who will report for duty in
fiscal year 1994 (see also "Chambers Law Clerks," infra p. 22).




       In September 1992 (JCUS-SEP 92, pp. 64-65), the Judicial Conference
amended the schedule of fees for bankruptcy courts, issued pursuant to 28
U.S.C. S 1930(b), to establish a $30 administrative fee in bankruptcy cases
for noticing services performed by the clerk in chapters 7 and 13 cases and to
exclude those cases from the existing per notice fee. The $30 fee is payable
at the commencement of the case. To help ensure access to the bankruptcy
courts, the Executive Committee approved on behalf of the Judicial
Conference a Court Administration and Case Management Committee
recommendation to amend the schedule of fees for bankruptcy courts to
allow the payment of the $30 administrative fee for noticing services to be
made in installments in the same manner as installment payments for
bankruptcy filing fees (28 U.S.C. 9 1930 (a)). The first $30 received shall be
applied to the $30 administrative fee.




      On behalf of the Judicial Conference, the Executive Committee
adopted the following resolution:

             The Judicial Conference of the United States, with
      great appreciation, respect, and also regret, notes the imminent
      departure of the
Judicial Conference of the United State8


                                   HONORABLE WILLIAM J. HUGHJ3S

                   from the United States Congress, where he has served as a
                   Member of the House of Representatives and as a member of
                   the House Judiciary Committee. Since 1991, he has served as
                   Chairman of the Subcommittee on Intellectual Property and
                   Judicial Administration.

                           During his twenty years in Congress and, in particular,
                   during his tenure as the Subcommittee Chairman,
                   Congressman Hughes has tirelessly dedicated himself to
                   improving the delivery of justice in this country. His
                   leadership has been demonstrated in numerous judiciary-
                   related initiatives in the areas of jurisdiction, finances,
                   resources, organization, and survivors' protection. Most
                   notable among these were his efforts to secure the
                   amendments to the Judicial Survivors' Annuities Act, which
                   provide for more equitable contribution rates for judicial
                   officers, thus helping to ensure adequate care for the survivors
                   of deceased judges; to obtain enactment of the Federal Courts
                   Administration Act of 1992, which implemented numerous
                   recommendations of the Judicial Conference of the United
                   States, including authority for the Supreme Court to prescribe
                   rules for appeal of interlocutory decisions and the abolition of
                   the Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals; and to ensure
                   sufficient resources for the federal judiciary to accomplish its
                   mission, particularly through the Fiscal Year 1993
                   Supplemental Appropriations Bill which contained critical
                   funding for juror fees and defender services. Chairman
                   Hughes' advocacy on behalf of the federal judiciary was further
                   evidenced by his defense of the integrity of the Rules Enabling
                   Act, his opposition to the proliferation of mandatory minimum
                   sentencing legislation, his resistance to the unrestrained
                   expansion of federal court jurisdiction, and his support of
                   legislation to promote expedited, but fair, habeas corpus
                   reform.

                           Chairman Hughes has zealously displayed his steadfast
                   faith in the judicial process as a protector of individual rights
                   under the Constitution and a guarantor of equal justice for all.
                   His departure later this year will mark the end of a long and
                   distinguished career of public service in the United States
                                                            March l6.lQQ4


Congress. His diligence and exceptional leadership have
earned him the respect and admiration of all with whom he
has served, and he will be sorely missed.

       The Judicial Conference takes this occasion to pay
tribute and express its most sincere appreciation for Chairman
Hughes' many contributions to the administration of justice
and his friendship to the federal judiciary.




The Executive Committee:

Approved the financial plans for the fiscal year 1994 Salaries and
Expenses, Defender Services, Court Security, and Fees of Jurors
appropriations accounts;

Agreed that previously-approved new bankruptcy and magistrate
judgeships would be funded as soon as the judiciary's fiscal year 1994
appropriations act was signed by the President, notwithstanding the
fact that a fiscal year 1994 financial plan would not be formally
approved. The Committee also requested that, due to declining
bankruptcy caseloads in some districts, the courts of appeals examine
carefully new vacancies as they occur and determine that each
judgeship is essential before replacement judges are sought;

Declined to grant an exception to the prohibition on reimbursement of
relocation expenses, requested by a court seeking to use its own funds,
and approved a one-time exception to the relocation reimbursement
policy, to allow reimbursement not to exceed $5000 for relocation of a
certified English-language court reporter hired by the District of
Puerto Rico;

Made a technical amendment to a legislative proposal, approved by
the Judicial Conference in September 1993 (JCUS-SEP 93, p. 45),
which would authorize the Administrative Office to prescribe fees for
the development and administration of court interpreter certification
examinations;

Deferred until further notice implementation of a program which
would allow judges of the courts of appeals to sit on other appellate
Judicial Conference of the United State8


                   courts from time to time, on an exchange basis, for educational
                   purposes;

                   Approved distribution of a letter from the Chair of the Criminal Law
                   Committee to all judges concerning the major provisions of pending
                   crime legislation;

                   Agreed t o maintain the current reimbursement rate for judges' travel
                   expenses and to review the rate next year;

                   On recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, approved
                   the pursuit of legislation which would grant to the judiciary the
                   authority to determine the pay cycle for judicial officers and
                   employees;

                   Approved a jurisdictional statement of the newly-merged Committee
                   on Security, Space and Facilities; and

                   Authorized, subject to Congressional concurrence, the funding of three
                   additional positions in the Court Security Office of the Administrative
                   Office on a reimbursable basis from the judiciary's court security
                   program.


        ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE
COMMITTEE                   OFFICE


                 The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it was
         briefed on a number of human resources issues involving the Administrative
         Office, including the gender and racial diversity within the agency, as well as
         the following subjects of continuing concern: support for independent
         counsels and the District of Columbia Public Defender Service; the budgets
         of the judiciary arid the Administrative Office, including funding for the
         Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building; Administrative Office
         organizational changes; the report of the National Academy of Public
         Administration on financial management within the agency; and a
         preliminary report on an Administrative Office study of the judiciary's
         relationships with the Congress. The Committee, which is charged with
         resolving complaints from the courts about the Administrative Office, noted
         that it had received no such complaints in over two years.
                                                                       March 16, 1904



COMMITTEEON AUTOMATION
AND TECHNOLOGY

   LONGRANGE PLANFOR AUTOWON IN THE FEDERALJ ~ I C I A R Y
           As required by 28 U.S.C. 9 612, the Judicial Conference approved a
   fiscal year 1994 update to the Long Range Plan For Automation in the
   Federal Judiciary, which had been developed by the Director of the
   Administrative Office and endorsed by the Committee on Automation and
   Technology. The update is comprised of the "Information Resources
   Management (IRM) Strategic Plan for Automation in the Federal Judiciary"
   and Functional Strategy Statements for major functional areas of the
   automation program.




           On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference approved two
   updated guidelines for the management of telecommunications services and
   equipment. The first, dealing with telephone lines, is a formula-based
   guideline that does not impose mandatory limits on the authority of courts to
   choose their telephone systems. In any given fiscal year, if the funding
   requested by the courts to maintain their current level of local telephone
   services is greater than the funding approved by the Executive Committee for
   local telephone services in that fiscal year's financial plan, the formula will
   be used to distribute the funds. Otherwise, the previous year's actual
   expenditures will be used as a guide to distribute the funds approved in the
   financial plan. For purposes of making this calculation, the formula (1.25
   switched voice lines per court employee) may be applied on a court-wide
   basis, and a court may direct in advance the division of funds among its
   units.

          The second guideline deals with non-recurring telecommunications
   expenses. Previously, three priorities had been established for the
   distribution of funds for telephone equipment. At this session, the
   Conference approved a fourth priority, so that the priorities for non-
   recurring telecommunications now read as follows:

          1)     First priority will be given to the purchase of additional
                 telephone equipment to support new positions.
Jzdcial Conferenceofthe United States


                  2)       Second priority will be given to the purchase of telephone
                           equipment to support office relocations and/or renovations,
                           provided a t least 20 percent of the telephone equipment is
                           being relocated and the existing equipment is old
                           electro-mechanical equipment installed prior t o the divestiture
                           of AT&T in 1984.

                  3)       Third priority will be given to the replacement of existing
                           telephone equipment that is not associated with moves and
                           renovations.

                  4)       Fourth priority will be given to the purchase of technologies
                           (such &i automated attendantlvoice mail systems or telephone
                           line-sharing technologies) that are projected t o reduce the cost
                           of telephone services to the court. Approval for these
                           technologies will be granted on a case-by-case basis and will
                           have to be supported by a cost-benefit analysis that clearly
                           shows projected long-term savings to the judiciary. Resultant
                           savings in local telephone services funds will be returned and
                           used to offset potential local telephone services deficits in other
                           courts.

         These voice telecommunications guidelines will be published in the Guide to
         Judiciary Policies and Procedures.


         AUTOMATION
                 SUPPORT   AND TRAINING CENTERS
                       STAFF

                The Committee on Automation and Technology considered a two-part
        resolution from the Seventh Circuit conceraing (1) the staffing of courts
        utilizing locally-developed case management systems as compared with courts
        utilizing nationally-developed systems; and (2) a study of the use of, and
        justification for, out-of-court training centers. The Committee declined to
        take action on the resolution, believing that the first part duplicates existing
        Judicial Conference policy established in March 1992 (see JCUS-MAR 92,
        p. 27) and that the second part was already being done. After discussion, the
        Judicial Conference tabled the first part of the resolution dealing with
        support for automation systems not developed by the Administrative Office,
        and tasked the Committee with studying whether Conference policy
        regarding such systems is being carried out. The second part of the
        resolution concerning out-of-court training centers was withdrawn.
                                                                      March 15, 1994




       Currently, 11U.S.C. § 327(d) allows courts to authorize trustees to
hire themselves or their firms as attorneys or accountants for an estate if it
would be "in the best interest of the estate." Recognizing in this provision
the possibility of a conflict of interest or a public perception of impropriety,
the Bankruptcy Committee proposed an amendment to § 327(d) that would
permit the bankruptcy court to authorize the trustee to act as an attorney or
accountant for the estate in four specific instances and afford the trustee an
opportunity for a hearing on such a motion. The Judicial Conference
supported a legislative amendment along the lines of the Committee's
proposal and agreed with the Committee that the proposal would be
transmitted to Congress at an appropriate time.




        The Bankruptcy Committee recommended the approval of guidelines
 for the district courts (1) setting the tenure of chief bankruptcy judges at
 seven years, with the possibility of reappointment for up to another seven
years in special circumstances; and (2) subjecting chief bankruptcy judges to
 the same disqualifications on the basis of age as the chief district and circuit
judges. The Conference tabled both parts of the recommendation.




       The Commerce, Justice, State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies
Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (Public Law No. 103-121) requires
the Judicial Conference to perform a study on the effect of waiving filing fees
in chapter 7 cases for debtors who are unable to pay the fees even in
installments. The Judicial Conference approved the Bankruptcy Committee's
recommendation that the following districts participate in the pilot study:
Southern District of Illinois, Eastern District of New York, District of
Montana, Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Western District of Tennessee,
and the District of Utah. The Conference further approved the following
procedures for guidance to the pilot courts:
Judicial Conference of the United States


          1)       Use of a general indigency standard to be applied on a case-by-case
                   basis to determine those debtors eligible for waiver of the filing fee;

          2)       Completion of a form by petitioners requesting in forma pauperis
                   status, requiring that they certify that the information provided on
                   theform is accurate and that they are unable to pay the filing fee in
                   installments; and

          3)       Adoption of a procedure that would require the United States trustee
                   to be given notice of and an opportunity to object to each application
                   for in forma pauperis status.

          In addition, the Conference authorized the creation of eight temporary
          positions to assist the pilot courts with processing in forma pauperis
          applications.




                The Judicial Conference has the authority under the Bankruptcy
         Amendments and Federal Judgeship Act of 1984 (Public Law No. 98-353) to
         determine the official duty stations of bankruptcy judges and places of
         holding bankruptcy court. After surveying chief judges of the courts of
         appeals, the district courts and the bankruptcy courts and after approval by
         the circuit councils, the Bankruptcy Committee recommended, and the
         Judicial Conference approved, changes in the following places of holding
         bankruptcy court:

               District                         &C                             Change

         Maine                                  Augusta                       Addition
         North Carolina (Western)               Shelby                        Addition
         West Virginia (Northern)               Morgant own                   Addition
         Mississippi (Southern)                 Vicksburg                     Addition
         Texas (Southern)                       Laredo                        Addition
         Texas (Southern)                       McAllen                       Addition
         Texas (Southern)                       Victoria                      Addition
         Michigan (Western)                     Marquette                     Addition
         Illinois (Central)                     Monmouth                      Addition
         Illinois (Central)                     Paris                         Addition
         Illinois (Central)                     Galesburg                     Deletion
                                                                  March 15, 1004


Indiana (Southern)                 Evansville                  Addition
Indiana (Southern)                 New Albany                  Deletion
Missouri (Western)                 St. Joseph                  Addition
Arizona                            Bullhead City               Addition
Idaho                              Twin Falls                  Addition
Idaho                              Jerome                      Deletion
Washington (Western)               Kalama                      Addition
Washington (Western)               Kelso                       Deletion
Florida (Middle)                   Ocala                       Deletion
Georgia (Middle)                   Americus                    Deletion

         The Bankruptcy Committee further recommended that thirteen
locations currently designated as both places of holding bankruptcy court and
official duty stations be deleted as places of holding court, since dual
designation is unnecessq      The Judicial Conference approved these
deletions, as follows, subject to the approval of the appropriate judicial
councils:

    District                       &C                           Change

North Carolina middle)             Winston-Salem               Deletion
Texas (Eastern)                    Beaumont                    Deletion
Texas (Western)                    Waco                        Deletion
Tennessee (Eastern)                Greeneville                 Deletion
Tennessee (Western)                Jackson                     Deletion
Illinois (Southern)                Benton                      Deletion
Arkansas (Western)                 Fayetteville                Deletion
California (Central)               Santa Barbara               Deletion
Washington (Eastern)               Yakima                      Deletion
Florida (Southern)                 Fort Lauderdale             Deletion
Florida (Southern)                 West Palm Beach             Deletion
Georgia (Northern)                 Newnan                      Deletion
Georgia (Northern)                 Rome                        Deletion

       The Conference also approved the Committee's recommendation to
transfer the official duty station of the bankruptcy judge in the Southern
District of Indiana at Evansville to New Albany.
Jlrdiciul Conference of the United States




                 Section 11of the regulations governing the ad hoc recall of
         bankruptcy judges is currently inconsistent with 28 U.S.C. § 374 and with
         the Conference's regulations governing the extended recall of bankruptcy
         judges and the regulations for both extended and ad hoc recall of magistrate
         judges. The Judicial Conference approved the Bankruptcy Committee's
         recommendation that section 11be amended to conform with the statute and
         the other Conference regulations. Thus, for purposes of computing any
         travel and per diem expenses incurred, the official duty station of a
         bankruptcy judge recalled on an ad hoc basis is the place where the judge
         maintains the actual abode in which the bankruptcy judge customarily lives.




                  The Judicial Conference approved a Committee recommendation that
          it restate to the Congress the Conference's opposition to legislation, such as
          that included in the proposed Bankruptcy Amendments Act of 1994 (S. 540,
          103rd Congress), that would amend the federal rules of procedure without
          following the procedures prescribed in the Rules Enabling Act, 28 U.S.C.
          $9 2071-2077. In addition, the Conference recommitted to the Bankruptcy
          Committee for further study a recommendation regarding the proposed
          creation of a national bankruptcy review commission.


       ON THE BUDGET
COMMIT~EE


                 The Court Registry Investment System (CRIS) pilot project, begun in
          1988, involves fourteen district courts with registry deposits of $588 million
          as of September 30,1993. The Committee on the Budget, reporting that the
          CRIS system meets or exceeds all expectations, recommended the expansion
          of CRIS from a pilot project to a voluntary nationwide program. The Judicial
          Conference approved the recommendation.
                                                                      March 15, 1994




           The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last
   report, it received 39 new written inquiries and issued 35 written advisory
   responses. The Chairman received and responded to 46 telephonic inquiries.
   In addition, individual Committee members responded to 61 inquiries from
   their colleagues.




          On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
   revised its Ethics Reform Act regulations on outside earned income. The
   revision eliminates reference to Administrative Office "Schedule C" employees
   in 8 2@)(12)of the regulations, since the agency no longer has employees in
   Schedule C status.


COMMITTEEON COURTADMINISTRATION
AND CASEMANAGEMENT

   CAMERASIN THE COURTROOM
           The cameras in the courtroom pilot project, approved by the Judicial
   Conference in September 1990 (JCUS-SEP 90, pp. 103-104), permits
   photographing, recording, and broadcasting of civil proceedings in six district
   and two appellate courts. The project has been monitored and evaluated by
   the Federal Judicial Center, and was originally scheduled to terminate on
   June 30,1994. The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the
   Court Administration and Case Management Committee that the experiment
   be extended to December 31, 1994, in order to provide the Committee with
   sufficient time to consider additional data regarding the effect of media
   coverage on jurors and witnesses. The Committee will report to the Judicial
   Conference in September 1994.
Judicial Conference of the United States




                Computer integrated courtroom systems allow participants in a court
         proceeding "real-time" access to a transcript as it is being reported, enabling
         them to read testimony immediately after it is given. Such systems are
         substantially more expensive than other transcription methods because of
         the increased cost of the equipment and the reporter, who must be more
         highly skilled. In light of today's tight budgetary climate, on
         recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and Case
         Management, the Judicial Conference disapproved the use of computer
         integrated courtroom systemlreal-time reporting systems as a method of
         recording proceedings in bankruptcy courts.


          MISCELLANEOUS              FEESCHEDULE
                                              FOR COURTOF FEDERAL
                                                                CLAIMS
                 The miscellaneous fee schedules for the district, bankruptcy and
          appellate courts provide a fee for usage of electronic access to court data and
          do not exempt federal agencies from such fees (JCUS-MAR 90, p. 21; JCUS-
          SEP 93, pp. 44-45). On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
          Conference approved a corresponding amendment to the miscellaneous fee
          schedule for the Court of Federal Claims promulgated under 28 U.S.C.
          § 1926.




                 The Judicial Conference approved a Committee recommendation to
         authorize the Middle District of Louisiana to conduct, at no cost to the
         judiciary, a oneyear pilot project for video-conferencing prisoner civil rights
         and habeas corpus cases. The Conference also endorsed a Committee
         recommendation that a sunset date of September 30, 1995, be established for
         all video-conferencingpilot projects.




                 Based upon the successful results of a pilot program on the feasibility
         of interpreting by telephone, the Committee recommended that the
         Conference approve the use of basic telephone technology as a method of
         providing interpreting services in short proceedings such as pretrial hearings,
                                                                   March 16,1994


initial appearances, arraignments, motions hearings, and probation and
pretrial services interviews. A more'advanced system, suitable for longer
proceedings and trials, requires further development. The Judicial
Conference approved the Committee's recommendation.




       Legislation proposed by the executive branch would eliminate the
statutorily-established monopoly on executive agency printing held by the
Government Printing Office (GPO), which operates under the oversight of
the Joint Committee on Printing of the United States Congress. In order to
allow the judiciary to take full advantage of the competitive marketplace, the
Judicial Conference approved the Committee's recommendation that it seek
to have the judiciary included in, and endorse, legislation eliminating the
requirement that all government printing be performed by the GPO.




       In light of concerns for preserving adequate funding for juror fees, the
Judicial Conference referred back to the Court Administration and Case
Management Committee, for consideration on the merits, a proposal to
address shortfalls in jury appropriations. The proposal would require parties
demanding jury trials to pay the jury fees, if they can afford to do so.




      The Judicial Conference approved the recommendation of the
Committee on Criminal Law to revise the Pretrial Services Notice to
Defendant Form.




       On recommendation of the Committee on Defender Services, the
Judicial Conference agreed to encourage chief judges of the district courts to
Judicial Confirence ofthe United State8


         establish district Criminal Justice Act (CJA) committees, consisting of
         representatives of all agencies and private attorneys involved in the federal
         criminal justice system. These committees are to propose changes in local
         rules and practices designed to reduce CJA and other criminal justice costs.




                 The Judicial Conference has previously approved an hourly rate of $75
         per hour for the in-court and out-of-court time of panel attorneys in 88
         districts. See, e.g., JCUS-MAR 91, p. 18. However, due to lack of funding,
         increases have been implemented in only 16 districts. Panel attorneys in the
         remaining districts are paid $60 per hour for in-court time and $40 per hour
         for out-of-court time. To provide these panel attorneys some relief, the
         Judicial Conference endorsed a Defender Services Committee
         recommendation that the Administrative Office be authorized to seek
         approval from the Congressional appropriations committees to use $2,000,000
         from the fiscal year 1994 defender services appropriation to increase the
         out-of-court hourly compensation of panel attorneys to $42 in court locations
         where the Conference has approved a $75 per hour rate, but where panel
         attorneys are currently being paid $40 per out-of-court hour.




                 Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-
         MAR 89, p. 16), the Committee reviewed and approved funding requests for
         fiscal year 1994 for the Federal Public Defender Organizations in the amount
         of $101,466,500; Community Defender Organizations in the amount of
         $27,152,000; and Death Penalty Resource Centers in the amount of
         $19,239,568.




                The Defender Services has been delegated authority to adopt and
         modify on behalf of the Judicial Conference non-controversial changes to the
         Criminal Justice Act Guidelines (JCUS-SEP 89, p. 16). Pursuant to that
         authority, the Committee amended CJA guideline 2.27(C) to encourage
         interim reimbursement of expenses when counsel's costs of duplicating
         discovery materials exceed $500.
                                                                     March 15, 1994




EMPLOYEE        INCOME
       RETIREMENT    SECURITY
                            ACT(ERISA)
       Following the recommendation of the Committee on Federal-State
Jurisdiction, the Judicial Conference agreed that, in lieu of its September
1990 position on removal of cases under ERISA (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 82), it
would propose and transmit to Congress an amendment to 28 U.S.C. § 1445
which adds a new subsection as follows:

       (d) A civil action in any State court may not be removed to
       any district court of the United States solely on the basis of
       concurrent federal jurisdiction over a claim under section
       1132(a)(l)(B) of Title 29.




       H.R. 1521 (103rd Congress) would grant commonwealth status to
Guam and would provide for a judicial system in Guam, setting forth the
proposed judicial relationship between the courts of the United States and
the local courts of Guam. Adopting the recommendation of the Ninth Circuit
Pacific Islands Committee, the Committee recommended that Article 111
status for the district judge(s) of Guam be provided, in the event that
Congress approves commonwealth status for Guam. The Judicial Conference
endorsed this recommendation.




        The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of January
21, 1994, it had received 2,493 financial disclosure reports and certifications
for the calendar year 1992, including 1,093 reports and certifications from
justices and Article 111judges, 289 from bankruptcy judges, 397 from
magistrate judges, and 714 from judicial employees.
Judicial Conference of the United States


COMMITTEEON INTERCIRCUIT
                      ASSIGNMENTS


                 The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the
         period from July 1, 1993, through December 31, 1993, it recommended and
         the Chief Justice approved 97 intercircuit assignments, undertaken by 74
         Article I11justices and judges.




                The Committee, upon review of the guidelines and operating
         procedures under which it assists and advises the Chief Justice in
         discharging his statutory responsibilities for intercircuit assignments,
         determined that the fundamental principles contained in the guidelines
         remain sound. However, the Committee recommended and the Chief Justice
         approved, amendments to increase the flexibility of the transfer of judges to
         courts with heavy caseloads.


COMMITTEE            BRANCH
        ON THE JUDICIAL



                The Judicial Conference voted to substitute for its previous policy the
         following:

                   It is the policy of the Judicial Conference of the United States:

                   a         that the real compensation of an Article I11 judge must not be
                             diminished;

                   a         that cost of living adjustments are necessary to achieve that
                             objective; and

                   a         that, in the view of this Conference, such adjustments should
                             take place automatically and annually.
TRAVEL REGULATIONS
                 FOR JUSTICES
                           AND JUDGES

       The Judicial Conference approved the recommendations of the
Judicial Branch Committee and amended the "Travel Regulations for Justices
and Judges" chapter of the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures as
follows:

1)     to provide that judges who do not incur a lodging expense will receive
       the meals and incidental expense rate applicable to the temporary
       duty point;

2)     to encourage judges to use discount airfares such as supersaver and
       senior citizen fares when the use of discount fares would achieve
       overall savings to the judiciary; and

3)     to refer to the use of a government-sponsored credit card, rather than
       to a specific company.




       The Hatch Act Reform Amendments of 1993 (Public Law No. 103-94)
subject the pay of all federal employees to legal process in the same manner
as private sector employees. Previously, federal employees' pay could be
garnished only to satisfy obligations for alimony or child support. On
recommendation of the Judicial Branch and Judicial Resources Committees,
the Judicial Conference approved in principle regulations for garnishment of
the pay of officers and employees of the federal judiciary which would
implement the Act. The regulations will be published in the Guide to
Judiciary Policies and Procedures.




        After a comprehensive study of the staffing needs of the bankruptcy
clerks, the Judicial Resources Committee approved a new bankruptcy clerks'
work measurement formula. To enable the formula to be utilized in the
equalization efforts (see "Staffing Equalization," supra p. 4), the Committee
sought and obtained approval of the Executive Committee for its immediate
Judicial Conferenceof the United States


         implementation (in fiscal year 1994) for redistribution purposes only (see
         "Supporting Personnel Matters," supra pp. 4-5). The Judicial Conference
         approved full implementation of the new formula in fiscal year 1995, with
         allocation levels based on availability of funds.




               The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Judicial
         Resources Committee to increase the grade of the clerk of the Ninth Circuit's
         Bankruptcy Appellate Panel (BAP) to JSP-15. This puts the clerk of the
         BAP on par with the clerks of the "small" courts.




                 Prompted by the Economy Subcommittee of the Budget Committee
         and concerns about the grades of career law clerks, the Judicial Resources
         Committee has initiated a study of law clerk grades and related chambers
         staffing issues. In the interim, the Committee recommended that a
         temporary freeze be placed on hiring and promoting chambers law clerks at
         any grade higher than JSP-13 pending the results of the study, which are
         expected to be presented to the Conference in September 1994. The
         Executive Committee approved the Judicial Resources Committee's
         recommendation for a temporary freeze on promotions (effective at the time
         of its decision) and on hiring (effective for commitments made prior to
         February 21, 1994, for law clerks coming on duty in fiscal year 1994) above
         the JSP-13 level (see "Supporting Personnel Matters," supra pp. 4-5). The
         Judicial Conference endorsed the Executive and Judicial Resources
         Committees' actions and supported the Judicial Resources Committee's
         determination to review total chambers staffing complements.




                 The Committee on Long Range Planning reported that it is
         continuing work on the development of a comprehensive long range plan for
         the federal court system. It has reorganized into two subcommittees, each
         reviewing a number of topics, and it anticipates that a draft long range plan
         will be completed and circulated for comment by August 1994.
                                                                 March 15, 1994




        The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges
System recommended that the introductory statement and section 12(b) of
the "Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States Governing
the Extended Service Recall of Retired United States Magistrate Judges" and
the introductory statement and section 7 of the "Regulations of the Judicial
Conference of the United States Establishing Standards and Procedures for
the Recall of Retired United States Magistrate Judges" be amended to include
the statutory requirement that the chief judge of the district court involved
consent to the recall of a retired magistrate judge. The Conference agreed to
the amendments.




       After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district
courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference
approved the following changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time
and part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact
are to be effective when appropriated funds are available.



New York, Eastern

1)    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
      Uniondale; and

2)    Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
      the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

New York, Southern

1)    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at New
      York City;
Judicial Conference of the United States


          2)       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at White
                   Plains; and

          3)       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                   the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

         New York, Western

          1)       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                   Buffalo; and

          2)       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                   the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

          THIRD CIRCUIT

          New Jersey

          1)       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                   Asbury Park from $30,960 per annum to $51,600 per annum, and
                   redesignated the official location of the position as Fort Monmouth or
                   Fort Dix; and

          2)       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                   the other magistrate judge positions in the district.



          Texas, Northern

                   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                   Abilene from $10,320 per annum to $30,960 per annum.



          Kentucky, West ern

                   Authorized the full-time magistrate judges at Louisville, Paducah and
                   Bowling Green, the part-time magistrate judge at Owensboro and the
                   deputy clerklmagistrate judge at Louisville, in the Western District of
                   Kentucky, to serve in the adjoining Middle District of Tennessee in
                   accordance with 28 U.S.C. 9 631(a).
                                                                  March 15, 1994


Ohio, Northern

1)     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
       Youngstown; and

2)     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.



Illinois, Central

1)     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
       Danville or Champaign-Urbana;

2)     Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Rock Island
       upon the appointment of the full-time magistrate judge at Danville or
       Champaign-Urbana; and

3).    Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

Indiana, Northern

1)     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
       Hammond; and

2)     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

Indiana, Southern

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the magistrate judge positions in the district.

Wisconsin, Eastern

1)     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
       Milwaukee; and

2)     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.
Judicial Conference of the United States




          Iowa, Northern

                   Authorized the full-time magistrate judge at Cedar Rapids and the
                   part-time magistrate judge at Sioux City, in the Northern District of
                   Iowa, to serve in the adjoining Southern District of Iowa in
                   accordance with 28 U.S.C. Q 631(a).

          Iowa, Southern

                   Authorized the full-time magistrate judges at Des Moines and the
                   part-time magistrate judges at Council Bluffs and Burlington, in the
                   Southern District of Iowa, to serve in the adjoining Northern District
                   of Iowa in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 8 631(a).



          California, Central

                   Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Los
                   Angeles.

          Washington, Western

                   Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                   the magistrate judge positions in the district.
          Guam

                   Authorized a part-time magistrate judge position at Agana at an
                   annual salary of $20,640, contingent upon the enactment of an
                   amendment to the Federal Magistrates Act that would include the
                   District of Guam within the magistrate judges system.



          Colorado

                   Authorized the part-time magistrate judge at Durango in the District
                   of Colorado to serve in the adjoining District of New Mexico in
                   accordance with 28 U.S.C. 8 631(a).
                                                                     March 16, 1994


   New Mexico

         Authorized the part-time magistrate judge at Farrnington in the
         District of New Mexico to serve in the adjoining District of Colorado
         in accordance with 28 U.S.C.5 631(a).

   Oklahoma, Northern

   1)    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Tulsa;
         and

   2)    Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
         the other magistrate judge positions in the district.



   Georgia, Northern

   1)     Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Gaineaville to
          full-time status; and

   2)    Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
         the other magistrate judge positions in the district.


COMMITTEETO REVIEWCIRCUITCOUNCIL
CONDUCTAND DISABILITYORDERS
   NATIONAL        ON JUDICIAL
          COMMISSION        DISCIPLINE
                                     AND REMOVAL

           The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability
   Orders (Review Committee) reported that it had studied those
   recommendations addressed to the judicial branch by the National
   Commission on Judicial Discipline and Removal. The National Commission
   was commissioned by Congress in the Judicial Improvements Act of 1990
   (Public Law No. 101-650) to study the issues involved in the tenure of an
   Article III judge (including discipline and removal), to evaluate the
   advisability of proposing alternatives to current arrangements, and to make
   its report to Congress, the Chief Justice, and the President.
Judicial Conference of the United States


                The Review Committee submitted to the Judicial Conference its
          recommendations in response to those of the National Commission which
          were within its jurisdiction. The Conference took the following actions:

          1)       a)        Declined to endorse modification of t h e "Illustrative Rules
                             Governing Complaints of Judicial Misconduct and Disability"
                             (Illustrative Rules) to provide that copies of complaints b e sent
                             to the various relevant chief judges only at the discretion of
                             the chief judge of the circuit; and

                   b)        Endorsed modification of the Illustrative Rules so as to permit
                             a judicial council to provide for access by judiciary researchers
                             to confidential materials, except insofar as the council may
                             determine that any disclosure of particular materials would be
                             contrary to the interests of justice or that particular materials
                             constitute purely internal communications outside the official
                             record of a complaint, in order to perform research concerning
                             the implementation of the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act,
                             28 U.S.C. § 372(c) (the Act), expressly authorized by the
                             Judicial Conference or the Review Committee and under
                             appropriate requirements for shielding the confidentiality of
                             such materials.

          2)       Agreed to urge all circuits and courts covered by the Act to submit to
                   the West Publishing Company, for publication in Federal Reporter 3d,
                   and to Lexis all orders issued pursuant to § 372(c) that are deemed by
                   the issuing circuit or court to have significant precedential value or to
                   offer significant guidance to other circuits and courts covered by the
                   Act.

          3)       Directed the Review Committee, in consultation with the
                   Administrative Office, to reevaluate what data is required to be
                   reported under 28 U.S.C. § 604(h) and to formulate and approve
                   specific changes improving the accuracy and usefulness of the data
                   reported.

         4)        Approved the need for reporting of formal orders issued by judicial
                   councils pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 332 that relate to judicial misconduct
                   and disability (including delay), and directed the Review Committee,
                   in consultation with the Administrative Office, to formulate and
                   approve a system for the reporting of these orders.
                                                                  March 15, 1994   ,


5)    Endorsed modification of the Illustrative Rules to give effect to the
      substance of the Commission's recommendation that the Act's
      confidentiality provisions not be thought to bar chief judges from
      seeking staff assistance or consulting with other judges in the process
      of complaint disposition.

6)    a)     Agreed to urge each circuit council that has not already done
             so to publish its rules under the Act in United States Code
             Annotated;

      b)     Agreed to urge that a reference to the Act and the circuit
             council's rules implementing the Act be included in the local
             rules of each district court; and

      c)     Agreed to urge each circuit council to consider other ways by
             which to increase awareness of and education about the Act
             among lawyers, judges, court personnel, and members of the
             public.

7)    Agreed to recommend to the individual circuits and courts covered by
      the Act that they consider whether and what committee(s) or other
      structures or approaches, at the district or circuit level, might best
      serve the purpose of assuring that justified complaints are brought to
      the attention of the judiciary without fear of retaliation.

8)    Charged the Review Committee with the responsibility of considering
      whether and to what extent to alter the language of the commentary
      to Illustrative Rule 1relative to the Commission's recommendation
      regarding delay.

9)    Endorsed modification of the Illustrative Rules so as to give effect to
      the substance of the Commission's recommendation to include as an
      additional ground for chief judge dismissal that allegations have been
      shown to be plainly untrue or incapable of being established through
      investigation.

10)   Endorsed modification of the Illustrative Rules to give effect to the
      substance of the Commission's recommendation "that the Illustrative
      Rules be amended to permit chief judges and judicial councils to
      invoke a rule of necessity authorizing them to continue to act on
      multiple-judge complaints that otherwise would require multiple
      disqualifications".
Judicial Conferenceof the United States


                   Endorsed modification of the Illustrative Rules to provide (a) that if a
                   chief judge or circuit council dismisses, solely for lack of
                   jurisdiction under 9 372(c), non-frivolous allegations of criminal
                   conduct by a federal judge, the order of dismissal shall inform the
                   complainant that the dismissal does not prevent the complainant from
                   bringing such allegations to the attention of appropriate federal or
                   state criminal authorities; and (b) that where the chief judge or circuit
                   council dismisses, solely for lack of jurisdiction, allegations of criminal
                   conduct that were originally referred to the circuit by a Congressional
                   committee or member of Congress, the chief judge or circuit council
                   shall notify the Congressional committee or member that the judiciary
                   has concluded that it 1ac.bjurisdiction under 9 372(c).

         12)       Approved in principle the promulgation of a uniform policy on the
                   limitations a judicial council should impose on a judge who is
                   personally implicated in the criminal process, and directed the Review
                   Committee, or another committee of the Conference, to draft such a
                   policy for subsequent approval by the Conference.

         13)       Endorsed in principle the Commission's recommendation that there
                   be "informal meetings of high-level representatives of the three
                   branches of the federal government to promote oversight and
                   understanding of judicial discipline, disability, and impeachment" and
                   charged the Review Committee with the responsibility to study
                   further and recommend the best way to implement the Commission's
                   recommendation.

         14)       Endorsed, in principle, the recommendations of the National
                   Commission:

                   a)       that Illustrative Rule 17(a), providing for the public availability
                            of sanitized chief judges' orders dismissing or concluding
                            complaints, be uniformly adopted and adhered to by all circuits
                            and courts covered by the Act;

                   b)       that the provisions of the Illustrative Rules regarding
                            confidentiality be adopted and adhered to by all circuits and
                            courts covered by the Act;

                   C)       that chief judges' orders dismissing or concluding complaints     ,

                            set forth the allegations of the complaint and the reasons for
                            the disposition as required by Illustrative Rule 4(f);
                                                                   March 15, 1994


       d)     that Illustrative Rule 4@), which provides that a chief judge
              may make a limited inquiry into the allegations of a complaint,
              be adopted and adhered to by all circuits and courts covered by
              the Act; and

       e)     that the Administrative Officeroutinely provide the House
              Committee on the Judiciary with all final orders and
              accompanying memoranda required by the Act to be publicly
              available.

       The Conference noted that all circuits and courts covered by the Act
       already have in place, or are in the process of adopting, the practices
       enumerated in subsections a through d above. The Conference
       further noted that it is the present practice of the Administrative
       Office to provide the House Committee on the Judiciary with all final
       orders and accompanying memoranda required by the Act to be
       publicly available. Accordingly, national uniformity already has been
       established, or the recommendations of the National Commission
       otherwise complied with, as to each of these matters. Further action
       by the Conference is therefore unnecessary.

       ~ h e ' ~ u d i c iConference
                          a1         also charged the Review Committee with
preparing the modified Illustrative Rules andor commentary referred to in
items l@), 5, 9, 10, and 11 above.

       In addition, the Review Committee recommended that a committee of
the Conference (1) monitor the efforts of the respective circuits and courts
in studying judicial misconduct involving bias based on race, sex, sexual
orientation, religion, or ethnic or national origin, including sexual
harassment, and the extent to which the Act and other existing mechanisms
and programs, including judicial education, are adequate to deal with it; and
(2) consider and recommend such changes in policies, procedures, and
programs as are warranted. Conference review of this recommendation was
deferred pending consideration by the Committee on Court Administration
and Case Management, which is monitoring gender bias studies underway in
the courts.
Judicial Conferenceof the United States



COMMITTEEON RULESOF PRACTICE
AND PROCEDURE



                 In September 1993, the Judicial Conference agreed to support in
         principle the substance of proposed legislation, the "Civil Justice Reform Act
         of 1993" (S. 585, 103d Congress), dealing with offers of judgment (JCUS-
         SEP 93, p. 43). The proposal would provide limited attorney fee remedies
         where a party rejects an offer that proves to be more favorable to it than the
         eventual judgment. On recommendation of the Committee on Rules of
         Practice and Procedure that the endorsement in principle of the offer of
         judgment proposal in S. 585 is premature, the Judicial Conference withdrew
         its previous position and agreed to take no position on the legislation at this
         time.


COMMITTEEON SECURITY,
    AND FACILITIES
SPACE


                 The Judicial Conference approved a Committee on Security, Space
         and Facilities recommendation that certain technical, editorial, and
         substantive changes be made to the United States Courts Design Guide.
         These changes involve reduced lighting and acoustical standards in some
         areas of courthouses, narrative that more clearly addresses and encourages
         the use of existing court facilities unless functional space requirements of the
         courts cannot be met, and changes in library space standards requested by
         circuit librarians. Other changes, proposed by the Independent Courts
         Building Program Panel, reduce requirements for doors that require locks,
         revise language in order to reduce the costs of constructing parking for
         service vehicles, and more specifically define the aesthetic design of federal
         courthouses to avoid exceeding the Design Guide standards. In addition,
         technical changes submitted by the General Services Administration (GSA)
         were made.
                                                                   March 15, 1994




        On recommendation of the Committee, which was concerned about
cost containment, the Judicial Conference approved the following revision to
the judiciary's parking policies (new language is shaded):

       Category B-2-b: Parking for employees who work unusual
       hours.

       Parking spaces may be provided for those employees who
       routinely work unusual hours, particularly late at night or at
       other times when normal street activity has dissipated and




       not include employees on flexitime or overtime schedules.
       Staff who work after the close of the normal business day
       should utilize spaces by other assigned space holders once
       those individuals leave for the day Security or GSA policies
       may determine accessibility of spaces after the close of the
       normal work day. Nonetheless, any space request for this                 \
       priority category must include a narrative statement explaining
       why st& cannot move their vehicles into government assigned
       spaces once other assigned space holders have left for the
       business day.

The Judicial Conference agreed to apply the amended policy prospectively
only, i.e., to all requests based on unusual working hours received
subsequent to its approval. The parking policies will be published in the
Guide to Judiciary Policies a n d Procedures.




       All of the foregoing recommendations which require the expenditure
of funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference
subject to the availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the
Conference might establish for the use of available resources.
Judicial Conference of the United States




                 The .Conference authorized the immediate release of matters
         considered at this session where necessary for legislative or administrative
         action.




                                                    Chief Justice of th
                                                    Presiding

         May 23,1994
