REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES




MARCH 11, 1997

WASHINGTON, D.C.




JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STA TES
CHIEFJUSTICE WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST,
PRESIDING
LEONIDAS RALPH MECHAM, SECRETARY
REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES

March 11, 1997


     Contents

     Call of the Conference .........................................                         1I
     Reports......................................................4
     Elections.....................................................                           4
     Executive Committee ...............                        *,........ *.............4
            United States Sentencing Commission.........................                      4
            Resolution..............................................                          5
            Funding for District of Columbia Court System ...................                  6
            Optimal Utilization of Judicial Resources.......................                  7
            Study of the Criminal Justice Act.............................                     8
            Miscellaneous Actions .....................................                        8
     Committee on the Administrative Office.............................                      10
            Committee Activities .....................................                       10
     Committee on Automation and Technology..........................                        10
            Long Range Plan for Automation............................                       10
            Library Program.........................................                         11
     Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System ..............                 11
            Bankruptcy Judgeships ...................................                        11
            Statistical Reporting of Intercircuit and Intracircuit Assignments ......        12
            Reappointment of Bankruptcy Judges.........................                      13
            Revision of Dollar Amounts in the Bankruptcy Code ...............                13
     Committee on the Budget .......................................                         14
            Committee Activities .....................................                       14
     Committee on Codes of Conduct..................................                         14
            Ethics Reform Act Gift Regulations ...........................                    14
            Committee Activities .....................................                       15
Committee on Court Administration and Ca se Mnnemert
       Civil Justice Reform Act ........              ............
       Staffing Resources for CJRA and Ai rbitratio n Programs . .
       Space Cost Containment ........                ............
               Courtroom Sharing .......              ............
               Acquiring and Releasing Speace ... ............
               Probation and Pretrial Servic es Divi sional Offices
      Miscellaneous Fee Schedules ....                ............
               Bankruptcy Courts.......               ............
               Judicial Panel on Multidistrb :t LitigaLtion .......
Commi ttee on Criminal Law ..........                 ............
      Victims' Rights Constitutional Ame ndment ...........
      Risk Prediction Index............... ............
      Firearms Regulations............... ............
Committee on Defender Services.............           ............
      Defender Organization Funding Requests ............
      Death Penalty Representation ...........         ...........
      Disclosure of Compensation Payments ... ............
      Panel Attorney Administration ..........         ............
      Case Compensation Maximums........               ...........I
Committee on Financial Disclosure ...........          ............
      Committee Activities ................            ............
Committee on Intercircuit Assignments......... ............
      Committee Activities ................            ............
Committee on International Judicial Relations ... ............
      Committee Activities ................            ............
Committee on the Judicial Branch .............         ............
      Committee Activities................             ............
Committee on Judicial Resources .............          ............
      Article III Judgeship Needs ............         ............
              Court of Appeals .............           ............
              District Courts ................         ............
              District Judgeship Needs Survey..        ............
              Temporary Judgeships .........           ............
      Congressional Accountability Act........ ............
      Court Reporters....................              ............
Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
      Background Investigations.............
      Changes in Magistrate Judge Positions . ...            . . . . . . . . .29

Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders........34
      Processing of Petitions for Review .......             . . . . . . . . .34
Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure ........................      34
       Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.............................       34
       Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.......................... 35
       Federal Rules of Evidence .................................         35
Committee on Security, Space and Facilities ..........................     36
       Courtroom Sharing and Model for Courtroom Planning.............36
       United States Courts Design Guide...........................        37
       Five Year Courthouse Project Plan...........................        39
       Release of Court Facilities.................................        39
       Opening and Closing Facilities..............................        40
       Use of Court Facilities by State and Local Governments ............ 40
       Space Management Initiatives Plan ...........................       40
Mail Ballots  .................................................            41
Funding ....................................................               42
Release of Conference Action ....................................          42
REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES

March 11, 1997


            The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
     D.C., on March 11, 1997, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United
     States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and the
     following members of the Conference were present:

            First Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Juan R. Torruella
                    Chief Judge Joseph L. Tauro,
                           District of Massachusetts

            Second Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Jon 0. Newman
                    Chief Judge Peter C. Dorsey,
                           District of Connecticut

            Third Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Dolores K. Sloviter
                    Chief Judge Edward N. Calm,
                           Eastern District of Pennsylvania

            Fourth Circuit:

                    Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III
                    Judge W. Earl Britt,
                           Eastern District of North Carolina
JudicialConference ofthe UnitedSlaes



                   Fifih Circuit:

                             Chief Judge Henry A. Politz
                             Judge William H. Barbour, Jr.,
                                    Southern District of Mississippi

                   Sixth Circuit:

                            Chief Judge Boyce F. Martin, Jr.
                            Judge Thomas A. Wiseman, Jr.,
                                   Middle District of Tennessee

                  Seventh Circuit:

                            Chief Judge Richard A. Posner
                            Chief Judge Michael M. Mihrn,
                                   Central District of Illinois

                  Eighth Circuit:

                           Chief Judge Richard S. Arnold
                           Judge Donald E. O'Brien,
                                  Northern District of Iowa

                  Ninth Circuit:

                           Chief Judge Procter Hug, Jr.
                           Chief Judge Lloyd D. George,
                                  District of Nevada

                 Tenth Circuit:

                           Chief Judge Stephanie K. Seymour
                           Judge Clarence A. Brimmer,
                                  District of Wyoming




                                                     2
                                                                      March 11, 1997




      Eleventh Circuit:

              Chief Judge Joseph W. Hatchett
              Judge Win. Terrell Hodges,
                     Middle District of Florida

      District of Columbia Circuit:

              Chief Judge Harry T. Edwards
              Chief Judge John Garrett Penn,
                     District of Columbia

       Federal Circuit:

              Chief Judge Glenn L. Archer, Jr.

       Court of International Trade:

              Chief Judge Gregory W. Carman

        Circuit Judges Norman H. Stahl and David R. Thompson and District
Judges Julia Smith Gibbons, John G. Heybum, II, George P. Kazen, Barefoot
Sanders, and Ann C. Williams attended the Conference session. Circuit
Executives Vincent Flanagan, Steven Flanders, Toby Slawsky, Samuel W.
Phillips, Gregory A. Nussel, James A. Higgins, Collins T. Fitzpatrick, June L.
Boadwine, Gregory B. Walters, Robert L. Hoecker, Norman E. Zoller, and Linda
Ferren were also present.

       Senators Richard J. Durbin and Patrick J. Leahy and Representative
Barney Frank spoke on matters pending in Congress of interest to the Conference.
Attorney General Janet Reno and Acting Solicitor General Walter Dellinger
addressed the Conference on matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the
Department of Justice.

         Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence A.
Lee, Jr., Associate Director for Management and Operations; William R. Burchill,
Jr., Associate Director and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel, Assistant Director,
Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Michael W. Blommer, Assistant

                                        3
Judicial Conference of the United States



          Director, Legislative Affairs; David Sellers, Acting Assistant Director, Public
          Affairs; and Wendy Jenmis, Deputy Assistant Director, Judicial Conference
          Executive Secretariat. Judge Rya W. Zobel and Russell R. Wheeler, Director and
          Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also attended the session of the
          Conference, as did James Duff, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice;
          Mary Ann Willis, Supreme Court Staff Counsel; and judicial fellows Sirkka A.
          Kaufman, Harry L. Pohlman, Mark Syska, and Elizabeth Woodcock.


]REPORTS

                 Mr. Mechamn reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
         courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office. Judge Zobel spoke to
         the Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs, and Judge Richard
         Conaboy, Chairman of the United States Sentencing Commission, submitted a
         written report on Sentencing Commission activities.


ELECTIONS

                  The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
         Federal Judicial Center Bankruptcy Judge A. Thomas Small of the Eastern
         District of North Carolina to replace Bankruptcy Judge Elizabeth L. Penis, and
         Magistrate Judge Virginia M. Morgan of the Eastern District of Michigan to fill a
         new position created by the Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1996 (Public Law
         No. 104-317).



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

         UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION

                On recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Judicial Conference
        approved the following names for presentation to the President of the United
        States for appointment, subject to the advice and consent of the Senate, to fill two
        vacancies on the United States Sentencing Commission:



                                                  4
                                                                        Marh))1, 1997



       For reappointment:

               Honorable A. David Mazzone, District of Massachusetts;

       For appointment (to succeed the Honorable Julie Carnes, who does
       not seek reappointment):
               Honorable Diana E. Murphy, Eighth Circuit
               Honorable Donald E. O'Brien, Northern District of Iowa.


RESOLUTION

       On recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Judicial Conference
adopted the following resolution, in recognition of the extraordinary contributions
of Chief Judge Richard S. Arnold, who stepped down as Chair of the Budget
Committee on December 31, 1996:

              The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
       with appreciation, respect and admiration the Honorable

                            RICHARD S. ARNOLD

       Chair of the Committee on the Budget of the Judicial Conference
       from November 20, 1987 to December 31, 1996. Appointed as
       committee chair by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, Chief
       Judge Arnold has played a pivotal role in the administration of the
       federal court system. He has served with distinction leading the
       Budget Committee while simultaneously performing his duties as
       Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth
       Circuit. Chief Judge Arnold has earned the gratitude of his
       colleagues for the innumerable contributions he has made not only
       while serving on the Budget Committee, but also while serving on
       the Ad Hoc Committee on Regulatory Reform Legislation from
       1981 to 1984, the Subconmittee on Judicial Improvements from
       1983 to 1987, and currently as member of the Executive
       Committee. He has gained the confidence and respect of those
       with whom he has come in contact in all three branches of

                                         5
Judicial Conference of the United States



                     government. We pay tribute and extend our deep appreciation to
                     Chief Judge Arnold for his unwavering commitment to the
                     administration ofjustice and service to the federal judiciary.


          ]FUNDING FOR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURT SYSTEM

                  On January 14, 1997, the President announced a plan to restructure the
          relationship between the federal government and the District of Columbia. The
          plan included a provision that the Administrative Office of the United States
          Courts would assume direct responsibility for finding the District of Columbia's
          local court system, although the local courts would remain "self-managed." The
          Budget, Federal-State Jurisdiction, and Criminal Law Committees reviewed the
          plan. The Executive Commnittee, on behalf of the Conference, concluded that it
          was inappropriate for the federal judiciary to be involved in the funding or
          operations of the local courts of the District of Columbia. The Executive
          Committee approved the following statement reflecting the Conference position:

                              The District of Columbia Superior Court and Court of
                     Appeals were created in 1970 as a new local court system designed
                     to function like the courts of the various states, separate and apart
                     from the United States District Court and the United States Court
                     of Appeals for the District of Columbia. The separation of the two
                     court systems would be blurred under a far-reaching proposal to
                     restructure the relationship between the federal government and the
                     District of Columbia announced by the President on January 14,
                     1997. The President's plan would have the federal government
                    assume direct responsibility for funding the District of Columbia's
                    court system, although the courts themselves, characterized by the
                    White House as a "court system [that] works well," would remain
                    "self-managed." While details have yet to be worked out, the plan
                    specifically provides that "[tlhe D.C. court system would be funded
                    through the Judiciary's Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts."

                            The Third Branch is sympathetic to the interest of the
                    President and the Congress in the fiscal stability of the District of
                    Columbia. The federal judiciary also understands fully the need to
                    provide stable funding mechanisms for carrying out judicial
                    functions. If the primary purpose of involving the federal judiciary

                                                      6
                                                                        March 11, 1997



       is to serve as a conduit forthe receipt of funds for the D.C. courts,
       there are more appropriate models for providing for the necessary
       funding which are consistent with the stated goal of preserving the
       ability of the D.C. court system to manage itself. These include,
       among others, funding systems developed for Article I courts, and
       creation of an independent agency to receive and disburse funds for
       D.C. courts and their related functions. Such options would also
       be more consistent with the time-honored principle that federal
       courts are to have limited jurisdiction, whereas state and local
       courts such as those in the District of Columbia are to be courts of
        general jurisdiction under our system of federalism.

               The proposed solution to fund the D.C. courts through the
       Administrative Office presents serious legal and practical
       problems. While these are numerous, two are of such concern that
       they warrant detailed consideration. First, the plan would place the
       Director of the Administrative Office in the untenable position of
       assuming legal responsibility for handling D.C. court funds without
       the authority to assure that such funding is expended in accordance
       with law. In addition, to the extent that the plan can be read to
       involve the federal courts in the supervision of offenders sentenced
       by D.C. judges, the federal probation system is simply not
       equipped to assume such massive new responsibilities.

               It is essential to preserve the independence of the federal
       courts and, at the same time, retain an independent local judiciary
       for D.C. citizens. The Executive Committee of the Judicial
       Conference, acting by virtue of its emergency authority on the
       Conference's behalf, therefore urges the Executive and Legislative
       Branches to develop alternatives that would avoid the
       entanglement of the federal judiciary in the operations of the local
       courts of the District of Columbia.


OPTIMAL UTILIZATION OF JUDICIAL RESOURCES

        In reports accompanying the judiciary's appropriations legislation for
fiscal years 1996 and 1997, Congress asked the federal judiciary to study and
report on the "optimal utilization of judicial resources." The Executive

                                         '7
Judicial Conference ofIhe United States



          Conmittee reviewed a draft report, endorsed by several Conference committees,
          which addressed four specific topics, as well as additional areas where
          improvements and cost efficiencies could be achieved, and determined to give the
          members of the Judicial Conference an opportunity to review the report. In a mail
          ballot which concluded on November 18, 1996, the Judicial Conference voted to
          approve the report. (Two members included suggestions for changes, which were
          accommodated.) The report was transmitted to Congress by the due date of
          November 3 0, 1996 (see infra, "Mail Ballots," p. 4 1).


          STUDY OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT

                  The Report of the Judicial Conference of the United States on the Federal
          Defender Program,approved by the Judicial Conference in March 1993,
          contained a recommendation that the judiciary should arrange for a
          comprehensive, impartial review of the Criminal Justice Act (CJA) program every
          seven years (JCUS-MAR 93, p. 28). In response to a Defender Services
          Committee suggestion that planning begin now so that the study could be
          completed by the year 2000, the Executive Committee determined not to proceed
          with a comprehensive study. Instead, the Executive Committee requested the
          Defender Services Committee to examine specific problem areas which may be in
          need of in-depth review.


          MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                     The Executive Committee:

          *         Approved participation in the Attorney General's pretrial drug testing
                    initiative (now called Operation Drug TEST) of 20 districts, plus three
                    additional districts provided they meet the budgetary parameters of the
                    project, and authorized the chair of the Criminal Law Committee to
                    approve the remaining two districts (see JCUS-SEP 96, p. 46);

          *         Declined to authorize the Administrative Office to request permission
                    from Congress to implement in fiscal year 1997 a $5 per hour increase in
                    Criminal Justice Act panel attorney rates in those districts in which a rate
                    of $75 per hour has been approved but not implemented;


                                                      8
                                                                 March 11, 1997



Approved a transfer of up to $8.5 million from the judiciary's fee account
to the Court Security account, assuming congressional approval;

Approved for codification in the Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and
Proceduresa long-standing policy of the judicial branch that drugs should
not be used, possessed, or distributed in the workplace;

Granted approval of a sentencing program sponsored by the Federal
Judicial Center, but only on the basis of the Executive Committee's
interpretation that the statute (28 U.S.C. § 334) requiring Judicial
Conference approval of sentencing institutes is inapplicable to this
program, and with the further understanding, consistent with that
interpretation, that Federal Judicial Center funds would be used to defray
the costs;

Agreed that the Conference should continue to take no position on
legislation to create a commission to study the boundaries of the circuits,
in particular the Ninth Circuit (see JCUS-SEP 96, p. 45), but voted to seek
a change in appropriations language to allow funds provided to such a
commission to be "available until expended";

Authorized a one-time waiver of the limit on reimbursement of relocation
expenses for an overseas law clerk, due to the particular circumstances;

Made no change in the judges' maximum daily subsistence allowance, but
asked the Judicial Branch Committee to review established per diem rates
in the Boston area;

Referred to the Judicial Resources Committee a question involving law
clerk assistance to courts with significant judicial vacancies;

Received from the Bankruptcy Committee a report providing
recommendations for improving the United States trustee program, which
had been requested by the Executive Committee in 1995 on the
assumption that the program will remain, for now, within the Department
of Justice;




                                  9
Judicial Conference of the United States



          0          Adopted a position proposed by the Automation and Technology
                     Committee regarding multiple vendors for computer-assisted legal
                     research; and

           *         On request of the Bankruptcy Committee, approved the release of a
                     preliminary Federal Judicial Center study of a bankruptcy informa
                     pauperis pilot project, provided that a two-page executive summary and
                     appropriate disclaimers were included.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

          COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                   The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it was briefed
           by Director Mecharn on legislation affecting the judiciary and on the agency's
           budget. The Committee also heard reports from senior Administrative Office
           managers on the agency's 1997 goals and objectives; efforts to improve the
          judiciary's financial management systems; the J-Net, the judiciary's intranet; the
           status of a study of the processes by which the Administrative Office obtains
          advice and feedback; human resource programs, including efforts to improve
          available information regarding health benefits; and evaluation and assessment
          activities.


COMMITTEE ON AUTOMATION AND
TECHNOLOGY

          LONG RANGE PLAN FOR AUTOMATION

                 Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612, the Committee on Automation and
         Technology recommended approval of a fiscal year 1997 update to the Long
         Range Planfor Automation in the FederalJudiciary with the proviso that
         approval does not constitute authority for any specific project to proceed outside
         the automation management process. The Judicial Conference approved the
         update.



                                                    10
                                                                                 March 11, 1997




       LIBRARY PROGRAM

                In addition to library collections maintained in chambers, federal court
       libraries exist as circuit headquarters libraries, satellite libraries, and unstaffed
       libraries. Depending on the needs and sizes of the populations they serve, staffed
       satellite and unstaffed libraries provide varying levels of services, collections and
       staffing. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
       approved functional requirements for satellite and unstaffed libraries, including
       the requirement that satellite libraries should be sufficiently large to house a
       satellite library collection as established by the Judicial Conference. The
       Conference also agreed, on recommendation of the Security, Space and Facilities
       Committee, to incorporate these functional requirements into the United States
       Courts Design Guide (see infra, "United States Courts Design Guide," pp. 37-39).


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

       BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

               The Judicial Conference is required by 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(2) to submit
       recommendations for new bankruptcy judgeships to the Congress, which
       establishes the number of such judgeships for each judicial district. Based on the
       results of its most recent biennial bankruptcy judgeship survey,' the Bankruptcy
       Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference transmit to Congress
       proposed legislation to create 18 additional bankruptcy judgeships, either
       permanent or temporary based on the most recent case filing statistics available at
       the time legislation for the judgeships is sent to Congress. The Judicial
       Conference agreed with the Committee, and recommended judgeships in the
       following districts:




         'This survey was conducted on an expedited basis in November 1996 because of
a change in the schedule for completing the surveys approved by the Judicial Conference
at its September 1996 session (JCUS-SEP 96, p. 50).

                                                I1I
Judicial Conference of the United States



                                           Northern District of New York (1)
                                           Eastern District of New York (1)
                                           Southern District of New York (1)
                                           District of New Jersey (1)
                                           Eastern District of Pennsylvania (1)
                                           Middle District of Pennsylvania (1)
                                           District of Maryland (2)
                                           Eastern District of Virginia (1)
                                           Southern District of Mississippi (1)
                                           Eastern District of Michigan (1)
                                           Western District of Tennessee (1)
                                           Eastern District of California (1)
                                           Central District of California (4)
                                           Southern District of Florida (1)

          The proposed judgeship in the Southern District of Mississippi would also
          provide assistance to the Northern District of Mississippi. The Conference also
          approved and agreed to transmit to Congress proposed legislation either to make
          the existing temporary bankruptcy judgeship in the District of Delaware
          permanent or to extend it for an additional five-year period so that the position
          does not lapse when the first vacancy occurs on or after October 28, 1998, as
          supported by the caseload and other factors at the time the legislation is to be
          transmitted.


          STATISTICAL REPORTING OF INTERCIRCUIT AND INTRACIRCUIT
          ASSIGNMENTS

                    On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, the Judicial
           Conference approved the collection and tracking of data on intercircuit and
           intracircuit assignments of bankruptcy judges. To assist in this effort, the
           Conference authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to make technical
           corrections, as necessary, to the B 102 form (Monthly Report of Trials and Other
           Activity) and to add a supplemental form designed to collect information on
          judicial time spent outside of court assisting other districts. Improved statistical
          reporting may enable the judiciary to demonstrate more effectively to Congress its
          efforts to use existing judicial resources to meet rising workloads throughout the
          nation.


                                                            12
                                                                       March 11, 1997




REAPPOINTMENT OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

        Section 303 of the Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1996 authorizes the
Judicial Conference to prescribe regulations which provide for the reappointment
of incumbent bankruptcy judges that differ from the initial appointment
procedure. The Bankruptcy Committee reconmended revisions to the regulations
governing the selection and appointment of bankruptcy judges, including a new
chapter 5, entitled "Reappointment of United States Bankruptcy Judges," that
would permit a court of appeals to reappoint an incumbent bankruptcy judge to an
additional 14-year term without considering other qualified candidates. The
Judicial Conference slightly modified the Committee's recommendation and
approved the revisions to the regulations, which are now called the Regulations of
the JudicialConference of the United Statesfor the Selection, Appointment, and
Reappointment of United States Bankruptcy Judges.


REVISION OF DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THE BANKRUPTCY CODE

        Under section 104(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, the Judicial Conference is
required to "transmit to the Congress and to the President before May 1, 1985 and
before May I of every sixth year after May 1, 1985, a recommendation for the
uniform percentage adjustment of each dollar amount in [title 11] and in section
1930 of title 28.' The Bankruptcy Committee determined not to recommend
dollar adjustments at this time because some adjustments had been made by
Congress when it enacted the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994 (Public Law No.
103-394), and because the congressionally established National Bankruptcy
Review Commission, which is tasked with studying the bankruptcy system, will
provide an opportunity for further review of the dollar amounts. The Judicial
Conference approved the Bankruptcy Committee's recommendation that
Congress and the President be advised that no uniform percentage adjustment
should be made at this time to the dollar amounts contained in the Bankruptcy
Code or in 28 U.S.C. §1930.




                                       13
Judicial Conference of the United States



COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

          COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                  The Committee reported that it reviewed a presidential proposal to
          restructure the District of Columbia's finances which included the proposition that
          the federal government, through the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts,
          assume the responsibility for providing funds for the local D.C. court system.
          While it appeared that the Administrative Office would serve only as a "pass-
          through" for funding with no management or operational responsibilities, the
          Committee determined that it was inappropriate for the Judicial Branch to
          undertake this role, and the issue was presented to the Executive Committee (see
          supra, "Funding for District of Columbia Court System," pp. 6-7).


COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

          ETHICS REFORM ACT GIFT REGULATIONS

                    The Committee on Codes of Conduct proposed revision of the Judicial
          Conference Ethics Reform Act regulations on gifts to clarify that judicial officers
          and employees may properly accept certain benefits from prospective and future
          employers under the gift regulations. The Judicial Conference approved the
          revision, which adds the following language to a new section 5(i) of the
          regulations and renumbers the existing section 5(i) as 5(j) (new language is in
          italics):

                    § 5. A judicial officer or employee shall not accept a gift from anyone
                    except for      -




                    (i) (1) meals, lodgings, transportation,and other benefits customarily
                            provided by a prospective employer in connection with bonafide
                            employment discussions;




                                                     14
                                                                              March 11, 1997



             (2)   in the case of ajudicial officer or employee who has obtained
                   employment to commence afierjudicialemployment ends,
                   reimbursement of relocationand bar-relatedexpenses customarily
                   paid by the employer;

             (3)   nothing in this subsection alters any other standards or Codes of
                   Conduct adopted by the Judicial Conference of the United States
                   relating to recusal due to conflicts of interest.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report to
    the Conference in September 1996, the Committee received 39 new written
    inquiries and issued 42 written advisory responses. During 1996, the average
    response time for these requests was 19 days, excluding responses that were held
    for discussion at Committee meetings. The Chairman received and responded to
    25 telephonic inquiries. In addition, individual Committee members responded to
    46 inquiries from their colleagues.


COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
AND CASE MANAGEMENT

    CIVIL JUSTICE REFORM ACT

             The Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990 (CJRA) required all 94 federal
    district courts to implement expense and delay reduction plans for civil litigation.
    The CJRA established specific principles, guidelines, and techniques for the
    courts to consider in making their plans, and required the designation of certain
    pilot, comparison, and demonstration courts to measure the effectiveness of these
    principles and guidelines. A contract was awarded to the RAND Corporation
    (RAND) to study the experience of the pilot and comparison courts, and the
    Federal Judicial Center studied the programs implemented in the demonstration
    courts.

           The CJRA requires the Judicial Conference to submit a report to Congress
    by June 30, 1997, on the pilot program. The Committee on Court Administration

                                              15
Judicial Conference of the United States



          and Case Management, which oversees the CJRA program, sought and received
          input from other Judicial Conference committees and from federal judges and
          clerks, and drafted a report which, inter al/a, reviews the independent evaluation
          conducted by RAND, the evaluation conducted by the Federal Judicial Center,
          and the experiences of the 94 district courts in implementing their CJRA plans;
          recommends that the Act's pilot program, as a package, not be expanded; and
          identifies a proposed alternative program consisting of a number of measures
          based in large part on the CJRA experiment. The Judicial Conference approved
          the proposed Civil Justice Reform Act report for submission to Congress.2


          STAFFING RESOURCES FOR CJRA AND) ARBITRATION PROGRAMS

                  Federal district courts have been experimenting with arbitration (both
          voluntary and mandatory non-binding programs) for more than a decade.
          Legislation formally authorizing such experimentation was extended twice and is
          scheduled to sunset on September 30, 1997 (see 28 U.S.C. §§ 651-658). The
          Committee on Court Administration and Case Management, determining that
          there had been sufficient time for experimentation and that courts interested in
          continuing their arbitration programs or beginning new ones could do so by local
          rule, made no proposal to extend the legislation.

                  Staffing resources to support the court-annexed arbitration program have
          been authorized and allocated to the district courts since the mid-1I980's as part of
          the pilot program. These positions have been used by the courts to manage cases
          referred to arbitration. Similarly, staffing resources to support implementation
          and operations under the CJRA were authorized and allocated to the district courts
          over the last six years. These positions have been used by the courts, for example,
          to administer alternative dispute resolution (ADR) programs, to provide support
          for CJRA advisory groups, and to enhance case management. The CJRA is
          scheduled to sunset on December 1, 1997.

                   Because of the impending sunset of the CJRA and legislation authorizing
          the arbitration pilot programs, the Judicial Conference approved a
          recommendation of the Court Administration and Case Management Committee
          that (a) the Judicial Resources Committee be directed to consider the development


          'The report will become public at the same time it is submitted to Congress.

                                                   16
                                                                        March 11 1997



of a funding mechanism for addressing ADR staffing resources in the courts; (b)
centralized funding for existing CJRA and arbitration positions be continued
pending the Judicial Resources Committee's recommendations and subsequent
Conference action; and (c) the Judicial Resources Committee be directed to report
back to the Judicial Conference on this issue at its March 1998 session.


SPACE COST CONTAINMENT

         In March 1996, the Judicial Conference approved a space cost containment
plan (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 35). The Court Administration and Case Management
Committee was designated to take the lead in (a) determining what policy on
courtroom sharing for active and senior judges should be adopted and whether the
impact of any delays resulting from courtroom sharing would adversely affect
case processing; and (b) developing criteria for acquiring and releasing space for
facilities where there is no judicial officer, visiting courtrooms and chambers
where there is a resident judicial officer, and divisional offices.

         Courtroom Sharing. On recommendation of the Court Administration
and Case Management Committee, the Judicial Conference adopted the following
policy statement and agreed to encourage courts to take into account the factors
set forth below when considering requests to construct additional courtrooms:

       Recognizing how essential the availability of a courtroom is to the
       fuilfillment of the judge's responsibility to serve the public by
       disposing of criminal trials, sentencings, and civil cases in a fair
       and expeditious manner and presiding over the wide range of
       activities that take place in courtrooms requiring the presence of a
       judicial officer, the Judicial Conference adopts the following
       policy for determining the number of courtrooms needed at a
       facility:

               With regard to district judges, one courtroom should be
       provided for each active judge. In addition, with regard to senior
       judges who do not draw caseloads requiring substantial use of
       courtrooms and to visiting judges, judicial councils should utilize
       the following factors as well as other appropriate factors in
       evaluating the number of courtrooms at a facility necessary to
       permit them to discharge their responsibilities.

                                         17
Judicial Conference aflihe United Slates



                     0          An assessment of workload in terms of the number and types of
                                cases anticipated to be handled by each such judge;

                     0          The number of years each such judge is likely to be located
                                at the facility;

                     0          An evaluation of the current complement of courtrooms
                                and their projected use in the facility and throughout the
                                district in order to reaffirm whether construction of an
                                additional courtroom is necessary;

                     a          An evaluation of the use of the special proceedings courtroom and
                                any other special purpose courtrooms to provide for more flexible
                                and varied use, such as use for jury trials; and

                          * An evaluation of the need for a courtroom dedicated to specific use
                            by visiting judges, particularly when courtrooms for projected
                            authorized judgeships are planned in the new or existing facility.

                 The Judicial Conference also agreed to encourage each circuit judicial
         council to develop a policy on sharing courtrooms by senior judges when a senior
         judge does not draw a caseload requiring substantial use of a courtroom.

                 Acquiring and Releasing Space. The Judicial Conference approved a
         recommendation of the Committee that a two-stage approach be taken in
         determining whether a non-resident facility should be closed, and adopted the
         following non-exclusive list of criteria for circuit judicial councils to use in
         determining whether to establish or maintain a facility without a resident judge:

         1.         The circuit councils should first evaluate the following three factors:

                    a.        the number of miles from the nearest facility within the district;

                    b.        the number of days the facility is used for court-related
                              proceedings; and

                   C.         the cost per day of use.



                                                         18
                                                                            March 11, 1997



2.     If those factors indicate that a facility should be considered for closure, the
       council should apply a cost-benefit test using the following criteria to
       determine whether the facility should remain open or be closed:

       a.      travel and per diem costs for judges and staff, litigants, and
               witnesses to the nearest alternative facility;

       b.      travel and per diem costs entailed by jurors if the facility is closed;

       C.      travel costs for all others involved in the proceeding (e.g., U.S.
               marshals, attorneys);

       d.      economic or other benefit the facility has to the community;

       e.      cost of defender services if the facility is closed;

       f.      historic significance of the facility;

       g.      representativeness of the jury pool; and

       It.     use of the facility by a community that would not be served as well
               if the facility were closed (e.g., Indian reservation, military base,
               national park).

        On recommendation of the Security, Space and Facilities Committee (at
the suggestion of the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management),
the Judicial Conference approved the biennial filing by the circuit councils of
space reduction reports. The Conference also agreed to require the circuit
councils, as part of their reports, to assess the need for maintaining any facility
that does not have a resident judge (see infra, "Space Management Initiatives
Plan," pp. 40-41).

        Probation and Pretrial Services Divisional Offices. After obtaining
input from the Criminal Law Committee, the Court Administration and Case
Management Committee recommended the endorsement of criteria and a process
for consideration by district courts and circuit councils whenever they are
considering acquiring or releasing space in probation and pretrial services
divisional offices. The Committee also recommended that the Judicial
Conference urge all districts to go through the process of applying the cost-benefit

                                          19
Judicial Conference ofthe United States



          criteria whenever a lease is up for renewal or, in goverment-owned space, every
          five years. The Judicial Conference approved the Committee's recommendations
          (see also infra, "Opening and Closing Facilities," p. 40).


          MISCELLANEOUS FEE SCHEDULES

                  Bankruptcy Courts. Item 15 of the Miscellaneous Fee Schedule for the
          Bankruptcy Courts provides for a fee of $5.00 per page for the provision of
          mailing labels. Because of advancements in technology, the information needed
          for mailing labels is available to the public electronically (for example, through
          PACER for a fee of $.60 per minute), and most courts no longer provide mailing
          labels as set forth in the fee schedule. A party without access to an electronic
         system such as PACER can still receive copies of addresses, printed from the
         court's automated system, for the copy fee of $.50 per page. Thus, because the fee
         for providing mailing labels is rarely used and the amount of funds involved is
         negligible, the Judicial Conference approved the recommendation of the
         Committee to eliminate Item 15 from the Miscellaneous Fee Schedule for the
         Bankruptcy Courts. The Conference also agreed to designate Item Number 15 of
         the Miscellaneous Fee Schedule as "Repealed" so as not to disrupt the
         enumeration of the schedule, since Public Law No. 100-459 permits fees collected
         for all services enumerated after Item 18 to be deposited in a special fund for the
         operation and maintenance of the courts.

                 Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. At its March 1995 session,
         the Judicial Conference voted to propose legislation authorizing the establishment
         of a miscellaneous fee schedule for the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
         (JCUS-MAR 95, p. 15). Such authorization was provided in the Federal Courts
         Improvement Act of 1996. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
         Conference approved a miscellaneous fee schedule for the Judicial Panel on
         Multidistrict Litigation consistent with the other fee schedules.




                                                20
                                                                             March 11, 1997




COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW

    VICTIMS' RIGHTS CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT

             Several proposals were made in the 104th Congress for a constitutional
    amendment on victims' rights, and it is anticipated that similar proposals will be
    made in the 105th Congress. With the concurrence of the Federal-State
    Jurisdiction Committee, the Committee on Criminal Law recommended that the
    Judicial Conference take no position on a victims' rights constitutional
    amendment at this time because no one proposal has emerged in Congress upon
    which the judiciary can base a position. While lauding the goal of such proposals,
    the Criminal Law Committee raised concerns about the impact of previous
    victims' rights proposals on the administration of justice. The Judicial
    Conference approved the recommendations of the Criminal Law Committee that
    it (a) take no position on the enactment of a victims' rights constitutional
    amendment at this time; and (b) authorize the Criminal Law Committee, in
    consultation with the Federal-State Jurisdiction Committee and the Chair of the
    Executive Committee, to maintain contact with Congress as it deliberates
    enactment of a victims' rights constitutional amendment to inform how the
    amendment may impact the administration and costs of operating the federal
    courts.


    RISK PREDICTION INDEX

            Since 1980, federal probation officers have used a device known as the
    Risk Prediction Scale-1980 to assist in the assessment of the risk of recidivism
    posed by offenders being supervised on terms of probation or supervised release.
    At the request of the Committee on Criminal Law, an updated assessment tool
    was developed by the Federal Judicial Center. The Committee recommended, and
    the Judicial Conference approved, the use of the new Risk Prediction Index by
    probation officers in the case classification process in lieu of the Risk Prediction
    Scale- 1980.




                                             21
Judicial Conference ofthe Unted Stales




          FIREARms REGULATIONS

                      The Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1996 amended 18 U.s.c.
          §§ 3603(9) and 3 154(13) to provide federal statutory authority for United States
          probation and pretrial services officers to carry firearms "under such rules and
          regulations as the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
          Courts may prescribe." The Criminal Law Committee proposed Regulations of
          the Directorof the Administrative Office Concerning Carrying and Using
          Firearmsby United States Probationand PretrialServices Officers. In addition,
          the Committee recommended that the authorized cylinder capacity of the weapons
          be increased from the standard which had been in use since 1985. At this session,
          the Judicial Conference modified the Committee's proposal with regard to the
          firearms and ammunition authorized for use by deleting proposed paragraph 4 of
          the regulations and inserting in lieu thereof the following new paragraph 4:

                    The Director, in consultation with the Committee on Criminal Law
                    of the Judicial Conference, shall periodically determine which
                    firearms and ammunition are authorized for use by probation and
                    pretrial services officers. No unauthorized firearms or ammunition
                    shall be carried or used.

         With that revision, the draft regulations of the Criminal Law Committee were
         approved by the Conference. These regulations will be published in the National
         Firearms Training Manual and the Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and Procedures.


COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES

         DEFENDER ORGANIZATION FUNDING REQUESTS

                 Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR
         89, pp. 16-17), the Defender Services Committee approved fiscal year 1997
         funding for Federal Public Defender organizations in the amount of $140,759,800
         and grants for Community Defender organizations totaling $39,149,200.




                                                   22
                                                                          March 11, 1997




DEATH PENALTY REPRESENTATION

        In September 1995, the Judicial Conference approved a Report on Death
Penalty Representationwhich included recommendations for procedures to
contain the costs of private representation in death penalty habeas corpus
proceedings (JCUS-SEP 95, pp. 78-8 1). To implement those procedures, the
Defender Services Committee recommended amending paragraph 6.02
(Compensation of Appointed Counsel in Capital Cases) of the Guidelinesfor the
Administration of the CriminalJustice Act (CJA Guidelines) to include a
provision encouraging courts to (a) require attorneys to submit and to seek
advance approval of litigation budgets in federal capital habeas corpus cases; and
(b) employ the case-management techniques used in complex civil litigation to
control costs in such cases. The Judicial Conference approved the amendment,
which will be published in Volume VII of the Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and
Procedures.

         The Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (Public Law
No. 104-132) (Antiterrorism Act) contained provisions relating to compensation
of counsel and other service providers in capital cases (with respect to those
commenced, or in which appeal is perfected, or on or after April 26, 1994),
including a limit of $125 on the maximum hourly compensation rate for attorneys
appointed in capital cases; a provision that courts "may" as opposed to "shall"
authorize investigative, expert, or other services in capital cases where found to be
reasonably necessary; a requirement that no exparte request for investigative,
expert, or other services in capital cases may be considered "unless a proper
showing is made concerning the need for confidentiality"; and a case maximum of
$7,500 on the payment of fees and expenses for services other than counsel unless
certified as necessary by the court and approved by the chief judge (or designee)
of the circuit. On recommendation of the Defender Services Committee, the
Judicial Conference approved amendments to the CIA Guidelines to implement
these provisions of the Antiterrorism Act relating to compensation of counsel and
authorization and payment of other service providers in capital cases.

        In addition, the Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the
Committee that two statutory provisions (21 U.S.C. § 848(q) and 18 U.S.C.
§ 3005) as recently amended (Public Law No. 104-132; Public Law No. 103-322)
be included in Chapter I of the CJA Guidelines for the convenience of judicial
officers and attorneys providing representation pursuant to those statutes. The

                                         23
JudicialConference ofthe United Slates



          Conference also agreed that the language "and Related Statutes" should be added
          after the words "Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act (18
          U.S.C. § 3006A)" at the appropriate tab.


          DISCLOSURE OF COMPENSATION PAYMENTS

                 The Antiterrorism Act includes provisions dealing with disclosure of
         Criminal Justice Act (CJA) payment information. The current Judicial
         Conference policy regarding release of information pertaining to CJA activities is
         basically consistent with the Antiterrorism Act disclosure provisions; the Act, in
         essence, converts the Judicial Conference policy favoring disclosure of CJA
         payment information into a statutory requirement. The Defender Services
         Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, amendments to
         paragraph 5.01 of the CJA Guidelines specifically to implement provisions in the
         Antiterrorism Act relating to disclosure of payments made to appointed counsel
         and providers of investigative, expert and other services.


         PANEL ATTORNEY ADMINISTRATION

                 On request from two districts, the Defender Services Committee agreed to
         recommend that funding be provided from the Defender Services appropriation to
         support a two-year pilot project designed to enhance CJA voucher review and
        panel attorney management, with the caveat that, in light of the availability of
         other resources for training panel attorneys in substantive criminal law, the pilot
        project should not duplicate such activities. The Judicial Conference approved
        the two-year pilot project in the Central District of California and the District of
        Maryland. Each court will employ an attorney to assist the court in CJA panel
        administration and case cost analysis, supported by up to $261,000 over the two-
        year period in the Central District of California and up to $266,000 over the
        two-year period in the District of Maryland.




                                                24
                                                                              March 11, 1997




    CASE COMPENSATION MAXIMUJMS

            On recommendation of the Defender Services Committee, the Judicial
    Conference agreed to support an amendment to the Criminal Justice Act to
    provide that compensation of counsel for representation in non-capital habeas
    corpus cases will be governed by the case limits applicable to felonies, since the
    collateral representation (which is provided where the interests of justice require)
    is often as difficult as that provided in directly defending against a felony
    prosecution. The budgetary impact of this amendment should be insignificant
    since chief judges of the courts of appeals (or designees) have the authority to
    approve compensation in excess of the statutory limits in appropriate cases.


COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of December 3 1,
    1996, it had received 2,983 financial disclosure reports and certifications for the
    calendar year 1995, including 1,215 reports and certifications from Supreme
    Court justices, Article III judges and judicial officers of special courts; 336 from
    bankruptcy judges; 478 from magistrate judges; and 954 from judicial employees.


COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the
    period from July 1, 1996 to December 31, 1996, a total of 88 intercircuit
    assignments, undertaken by 68 Supreme Court justices and Article III judges,
    were processed and recommended by the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments
    and approved by the Chief Justice. Several long-term designations were
    recommended and approved during calendar year 1996.




                                             25
Judicial Conference of the United States




COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL
JUDICIAL RELATIONS

          COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                  The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported that its
          members had participated in rule of law programs involving Hong Kong and
          Thailand, the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, countries of
          Eastern and Western Europe, countries of Latin America, and Haiti.


COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

          COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                  The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that a major item on its
          agenda is judicial compensation. The Committee determined that the mechanism
          for annually adjusting judicial compensation established by the Ethics Reform Act
         of 1989 is broken, and that the repeated denial ofjudges' pay adjustments is a
         threat to judicial independence. The Committee recommended the pursuit of
         legislation which would accomplish the following objectives: (a) give judges a
          "catch-up" pay adjustment;, (b) sever the linkage between judicial, congressional,
         and Executive Schedule compensation and substitute linking judges' salary
         adjustments to the mechanism for adjusting General Schedule pay rates; and (c)
         repeal section 140 of Public Law No. 97-92. By mail ballot concluded on
         January 27, 1997, the Judicial Conference unanimously endorsed the Committee's
         recommendation (see infra, "Mail Ballots," p. 41).


COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES

        ARTICLE III JUDGESHIP NEEDS

                Courts of Appeals. In September 1996, the Judicial Conference approved
        a recommendation from the Judicial Resources Committee to adopt a revised
        process for reviewing the judgeship needs of the courts of appeals (JCUS-SEP 96,


                                                26
                                                                           March 11. 1997



 pp. 60-6 1). In response to that action, the Judicial Resources Committee and its
 Subcommittee on Judicial Statistics initiated an immediate survey of judgeship
 needs for the courts of appeals, since the last survey was outdated. Based on the
results of the survey and utilizing the approved process, the Committee
recommended that the Judicial Conference authorize the Administrative Office to
transmit a request to Congress for an additional 12 permanent and five temporary
 circuit judgeships (in lieu of the previous request for 20 additional temporary
judgeships). The Judicial Conference approved the recommendation, as follows:

               First Circuit           1 Permanent
               Second Circuit          2 Permanent
               Fifth Circuit           1 Permanent
               Sixth Circuit           2 Permanent and 2 Temporary
               Ninth Circuit           6 Permanent and 3 Temporary

        District Courts. On recommendation of the Committee, which reviewed
three requests for additional district judgeships utilizing the applicable weighted
caseload formula and considering any special factors, the Judicial Conference
authorized the Administrative Office to transmit a request to Congress for one
additional judgeship for the Northern District of Texas, one additional judgeship
for the Southern District of Texas, and one additional judgeship for the Eastern
District of Virginia. This is in addition to the 33 district judgeships approved by
the Conference in September 1996 (JCUS-SEP 96, pp. 59-60).

        District Judgeship Needs Survey. In March 1996, the Judicial
Conference approved a recommendation from the Judicial Resources Committee
to includr, in biennial district judgeship surveys a review of courts where it may be
appropriate to recommend eliminating judgeships or leaving a vacant judgeship
unfilled (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 24). The Committee circulated for comment a
proposed process for such a review and revised the process to incorporate
suggestions of the judicial councils. The Judicial Conference approved the
revised process recommended by the Committee to be incorporated into the
routine biennial surveys of judgeship needs to take into account the need to
eliminate judgeships.

        Temporary Judgeships. Over the last several years, legislation
establishing temporary judgeships has varied in the method for calculating when
those judgeships expired. The most recent provision, enacted in 1996, amended


                                         27
Judicial Conference of the United States



          the Federal Judgeship Act of 1990 (Public Law No. 101-650) to allow temporary
          judgeships created in 1990 to exist until at least the first vacancy occurring five
          years after the confirmation of the judges named to fill the temporary positions.
          However, logistical problems associated with the temporary positions remain
          because Congress does not act on judgeship issues in a systematic manner, and
          since 1968, has acted on average only once every six to seven years. Since this
          cycle is beyond the five-year period for temporary judgeships, the judiciary has
          occasionally lost judgeships that are still necessary. On recommendation of the
          Judicial Resources Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to authorize the
          Administrative Office to include in future Article III district and circuit judgeship
          proposals submitted for congressional consideration a seven-year minimum
          provision for temporary judgeships.


          CONGRESSIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY ACT

                  In September 1996, the Judicial Conference approved a draft of the
          judiciary report required by the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (Public
           Law No. 104-I1) (JCUS-SEP 96, pp. 63-64), and the report was submitted to
          Congress in December 1996. In keeping with the final report, the Judicial
          Resources Committee drafted a new model employment dispute resolution plan
          and circulated the plan widely for comments. After numerous revisions based on
          comments received, the Committee recommended, and the Conference approved a
          model employment dispute resolution plan.


          COURT REPORTERS

                   Since September 1983, it has been the policy of the Judicial Conference
          regarding retention of official court reporters when district judges elect to use
          electronic sound recording (FSR) systems with a dedicated operator rather than
          official court reporters, to allow any necessary reduction in personnel to be
          accomplished through attrition (JCUS-SEP 83, p. 48). The Judicial Conference
          approved a Judicial Resources Committee recommendation to limit to one year
          the amount of time courts may retain over-strength reporters when judges change
          their election to ESR systems. The revised policy reads as follows:




                                                   28
                                                                              March 11, 1997



           In the event the need for shorthand, stenotype, or other reporter
           services should diminish by reason of the utilization of an
           electronic sound recording system, necessitating a reduction in
           court reporter staffing, funding for the court reporter position will
           be discontinued one year from the date of the election to the
           electronic sound recording system.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

    BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS

             Section 4.02 of the Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United
    States EstablishingStandards and Proceduresfor the Appointment and
    Reappointment of United States Magistrate Judges requires background
    investigations of nominees to magistrate judge positions by the Federal Bureau of
    Investigation (FBI) prior to appointment. Nominees for full-time magistrate judge
    positions are required to undergo full-field background investigations with a 15-
    year scope and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax checks, and nominees for part-
    time magistrate judge positions are required to undergo only FBI name checks and
    IRS tax checks. On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of
    the Magistrate Judges System, which determined that it is just as important to the
    federal judiciary for part-time magistrate judges to be subject to extensive FBI
    background investigations as full-time magistrate judges, the Judicial Conference
    amended § 4.02 of the regulations to require any new appointee to a part-time
    magistrate judge position to undergo an FBI full-field background investigation,
    with a 15-year scope, prior to appointment. In circumstances involving high
    turnover and recruitment problems due to isolated locations of certain pant-time
    magistrate judge positions, the Conference agreed to permit the Committee to
    grant waivers to the requirement for full-field background investigations by the
    FBI, on an individual case basis.


    CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

          After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
    recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts,

                                             29
Judicial Conference of the United States



          and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the
          following changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
          magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact are to be effective
          when appropriated funds are available.

          FIRST CIRCUIT

          District of Rhode Island

                     Made no change in the number or location of the magistrate judge
                     positions in the district.

          SECOND CIRCUIT

          Northern District of New York

          I.         Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Syracuse,
                     Watertown, or Binghamton;

          2.         Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                     Plattsburgh or Champlain from Level 6 ($10,640 per annum) to Level 5
                     ($20,640 per annum); and

          3.         Made no change in the number or location of the other magistrate judge
                     positions in the district.

          THIRD CIRCUIT

         Western District of Pennsylvania

          I1.       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                    Johnstown from Level 2 ($51,600 per annum) to Level 1 ($56,760 per
                    annum);

         2.         Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Erie from
                    Level 2 ($51,600 per annum) to Level 1 ($56,760 per annum); and




                                                     30
                                                                         March 11. 1997


3.     Made no change in the number, location, or arrangements of the other
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

FOURTH CIRCUIT

Western District of North Carolina

       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

Northern District of West Virginia

1.     Increased the salary of the padt-time magistrate judge position at
       Morgantown from Level 5 ($20,640 per annum) to Level 4 ($30,960 per
       annumn); and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.

SIXTH CIRCUIT

Middle District of Tennessee

I1.    Authorized an additional fuill-time magistrate judge position at Nashville;
       and

2.     Made no change in the number, location, or arrangements of the other
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

EIGHTH CIRCUIT

District of Minnesota and District of South Dakota

       Authorized the part-time magistrate judge position at Sioux Falls in the
       District of South Dakota to serve in the adjoining District of Minnesota in
       accordance with 28 U. S.C. § 63 1(a).




                                        31
Judicial Conference of the United States



          Eastern District of Missouri

                     Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                     magistrate judge positions in the district.

          NINTH CIRCUIT

          District of Arizona

           1.        Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Tucson;

          2.         Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Yuma
                     from Level 4 ($30,960 per annum) to Level 2 ($51,600 per annum); and

          3.         Made no change in the locations or arrangements of the other magistrate
                     judge positions in the district.

          Southern District of California

                     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                     magistrate judge positions in the district.

          District of Oregon

          I.         Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Portland;

          2.         Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Bend upon the
                     appointment of a magistrate judge to fill the newly-authorized position at
                     Portland; and

          3.         Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                     other magistrate judge positions in the district.

          Western District of Washington

          I.         Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                     Bellingham from Level 7 ($5,160 per annum) to Level 5 ($20,640 per
                     annum); and

                                                     32
                                                                         March 11, 1997




2.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
        Vancouver from Level 7 ($5,160 per annum) to Level 6 ($10,320 per
        annum).

TENTH CIRCUIT

District of Kansas

 1.     Authorized a new part-time magistrate judge position at Topeka at Salary
        Level 2 ($51,600 per annum);

2.      Upon the appointment of a part-time magistrate judge at Topeka,
        discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Leavenworth; and

3.     Made no change in the number or locations of the other magistrate judge
       positions in the district.

ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Northern District of Alabama

I.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
       Birmingham; and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

Middle District of Florida

I.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Orlando;

2.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Tampa; and

3.     Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
       magistrate judge positions in the district.




                                       33
Judicial Conference of the United States



COMMITTEE To REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS

          PROCESSING OF PETITIONS FOR REVIEW

                     The Rules of the Judicial Conference of the United States for the
          Processing of Petitionsfor Review of Circuit Council Orders under the Judicial
          Conduct and DisabilityAct (Rules for the Processing ofPetitionsfor Review)
          govern the handling by the Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and
          Disability Orders of petitions for Judicial Conference review filed pursuant to
          28 U.S.C. § 372(c)(1O). These rules do not impose any time limit upon the filing
          of a petition for review with the Conference. Because of the potential problems
          created by the absence of a clear time limit for filing a petition for review, the
          Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, an amendment
          to Rule 6 of the Rules for the Processing of Petitionsfor Review to establish a 60-
          day time limit for the filing of a petition for Conference review of final action of a
          circuit council, with an additional 30 days for the filing of cross-petitions.

                    As a result of the above amendment, two conforming changes to the
           Illustrative Rules Governing Complaints of Judicial Misconduct and Disability are
           necessary. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
           approved (a) the deletion of Illustrative Rule 17(d) (Special rule for decisions of
          judicial council) and the renumbering of the other subsections of Rule 17; and (b)
          the deletion of the last sentence of Illustrative Rule 18(e) (Judge under
          investigation) to conform to the amended Judicial Conference Rule 6.


COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE
AND PROCEDURE

          FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

                  The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedures submitted to the
          Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 73
          (Magistrate Judges; Trial by Consent and Appeal Options) and proposed
          amendments abrogating Rules 74 (Method of Appeal From Magistrate Judge to
          District Judge Under Title 28, U.S.C. § 636(c) and Rule 73(d)), 75 (Proceedings

                                                     34
                                                                         March 11, 1997



 on Appeal From Magistrate Judge to District Judge Under Rule 73(d)), and 76
(Judgment of the District Judge on the Appeal under Rule 73(d) and Costs), and
revisions of Forms 33 and 34. The proposed amendments were accompanied by
Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. These changes were
proposed to conform to the provisions in the Federal Courts Improvement Act of
 1996 which eliminate the alternative appeal to a district judge from a decision
entered by a magistrate judge under 28 U.S.C. § 636(c). The Judicial Conference
approved the amendments for transmission to the Supreme Court for its
consideration, with the recommendation that they be approved by the Court and
transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

        The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Criminal Rule 58 (Procedure for
Misdemeanors and Other Petty Offenses) together with Committee notes
explaining their purpose and intent. The proposed amendments conform with the
provisions in the Federal Courts Improvement Act which modify the procedures
governing the consent of a defendant to be tried by a magistrate judge. The
Conference approved the amendments and authorized their transmittal to the
Supreme Court for its consideration with the recommendation that they be
adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


FEDERAL RULES OF EVIDENCE

        Under 42 U.S.C. § 13942(c), as amended in 1996, the Judicial Conference
is required to report to Congress on whether the Federal Rules of Evidence should
be amended, and if so how, "to guarantee that the confidentiality of
communications between sexual assault victims and their therapists or trained
counselors will be adequately protected in Federal court proceedings." The
Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure prepared a report to Congress,
which explains that no amendment is necessary to guarantee the fair and adequate
protection of the confidentiality of these communications in federal court
proceedings. The Judicial Conference approved the proposed report, which
concludes that it is not advisable to amend the Evidence Rules to include a special
privilege for confidential communications between sexual assault victims and


                                        35
Judicial Conference ofthe United States



          their counselors or therapists, for transmission to Congress in accordance with the
          law.


COMMITTEE ON SECURITY,
SPACE AND FACILITIES

          COURTROOM SHARING AND MODEL FOR COURTROOM PLANNING

                   At this session, the Judicial Conference approved factors recommended by
          the Court Administration and Case Management Committee that encourage courts
          and circuit judicial councils to consider the number of courtrooms to be
          constructed in new and existing facilities for senior judges not drawing caseloads
          requiring substantial use of courtrooms and for visiting judges (see supra, "Space
          Cost Containment," pp. 17-20). On recommendation of the Security, Space and
          Facilities Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to incorporate in the United
          States Courts Design Guide (Design Guide) the factors with commentary.

                  The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Security,
          Space and Facilities Committee that it endorse the use of an automated planning
          model to assist courts and councils in calculating courtroom requirements in
          courthouse facilities. The Conference also approved the following specific
          planning assumptions for making projections of courtroom requirements. These
          assumptions may be modified by courts and judicial councils based upon actual
          circumstances, so that individual court needs can be considered when making the
          projections:

          a.        If a senior judge will be provided with a courtroom, it will be occupied by
                    the judge for ten years after taking senior status;

          b.        It will take three years for a new judgeship to be established and for the
                    judge to begin work once a court's caseload warrants an additional
                    judgeship;

          c.        A replacement judge will begin working two years after the judge being
                    replaced takes senior status; and

          d.        Active judges will take senior status in the year they are eligible.

                                                      36
                                                                          March 11, 1997


 The Conference agreed to incorporate these factors and planning assumptions in
 the United States Courts Design Guide.


 UNITED STA TES COURTIS DESIGN GUIDE

         After a comprehensive review of the United States Courts Design Guide,
including the solicitation of comments from individuals in the private sector, the
 courts, and the General Services Administration (GSA), the Committee on
 Security, Space and Facilities determined to recommend modifications to the
Design Guide. Among the proposed revisions was the inclusion of policy
statements in the Design Guide to assist in its use by a wide range of individuals,
and to ensure that Congress and others involved with making public policy
decisions about the construction of federal buildings are fully aware of the
rationale for certain space standards. On recommendation of the Committee, the
Judicial Conference also approved revisions to the Design Guide that:

a.     emphasize the important role the project budget, long-term durability, and
       maintenance costs play in determining the level and type of interior
       finishes in new courthouses and in renovation projects, and add language
       that precludes the use of exotic hardwoods;

b.     add a new Chapter 2 on general programming and budgetary
       considerations;

C.     incorporate functional requirements recommended by the Committee on
       Automation and Technology and approved by the Conference for use by
       courts and circuit judicial councils when contemplating construction of
       satellite and unstaffed libraries (see supra, "Library Program," p. 11), and
       also require specific approval by the circuit council of space associated
       with circuit headquarters, satellite, and unstaffed libraries;

d.    reduce the sizes of chambers suites when chambers library collections are
      shared between or among judicial officers, and incorporate designs that
      reduce chambers lawbook costs and do not increase rental costs, as
      optional design configurations to be considered for new construction and
      remodeled space;



                                        37
Judicial Conference of the United States



           e.        define in more specific terms the amount of space needed to move from
                     one space to another (i.e., circulation space), and prohibit design architects
                     and court staff from adding spaces not originally contemplated in design
                     programs, including spaces that increase floor size or building volume;

          f.         delineate in more specific terms staff office sizes using benchmarks from
                     the Court Personnel System;

           g.        encourage the use of, and reaffirm the need for, shared use of space
                     common to all court offices, such as conference and training rooms and
                     staff lavatories, and provide specific standards on the size and number of
                     these facilities;

          h.         increase the size of magistrate judges' courtrooms to 1,800 square feet and
                     ceiling height to 16 feet;

          i.         encourage sharing of district court courtrooms for large, complex
                     bankruptcy proceedings but permit, with specific approval of the circuit
                     judicial council, one 2,400 square foot courtroom for large, complex
                     bankruptcy proceedings in bankruptcy facilities; and

          j.         take no position on locating courtrooms and chambers on separate floors,
                     but include this design configuration as an option available to courts
                     wishing to incorporate it into construction projects.

                  The Conference agreed that changes to the Design Guide will be
          implemented effective with any project, the design of which begins on or after
          April 1, 1997. Any design which already has commenced could be amended
          provided no additional design fees or rental costs will result from the changes.
          Further, the costs of any changes incorporated into the designs of projects whose
          design appropriation already has been enacted will be absorbed from within the
          design budget if the design has not yet commenced. The proposed construction
          budget for these projects will not be increased as a result of incorporating these
          changes.

                  The Conference also prohibited any action taken by a court or circuit
          judicial council that would lead to extravagance in courthouse construction or
          renovation; at the same time, the Conference recognized that a pragmatic
           approach to design ensures that courthouses constructed or renovated represent

                                                       38
                                                                           March 11. 1997



long-term value. In addition, the Conference endorsed transmission to the
Congress of documentation for any departures from the space standards described
in the Design Guide approved by the circuit judicial councils.


FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

         The first five-year plan of courthouse construction projects was approved
by the Judicial Conference in March 1995 (JCUS-MAR 95, pp. 31-32). The
judiciary was urged by the Congress and GSA to list the courthouse projects in
priority order, and in March 1996, the Conference approved criteria for
prioritizing projects (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 36). At this session, the Conference
approved an updated five-year plan for the fiscal years 1998 to 2002 as
recommended by the Committee on Security, Space and Facilities. In addition,
the Conference agreed to include, as recommended by the General Accounting
Office, a brief narrative description of each project's scope, and a description of
how the criteria used to rank courthouse construction projects were applied to
each project.


RELEASE OF COURT FACILITIES

         Last year, upon review by courts and circuit judicial councils of their space
assignments -- a review prompted by the Judicial Conference-approved Space
Management Initiatives in the Federal Courts Plan (see JCUS-MAR 96, p. 35), six
locations without full-time resident judges were identified for release to GSA, for
a savings to the judiciary of about $400,000 in annual space rental costs. On
recommendation of the Security, Space and Facilities Committee, the Judicial
Conference approved for release court facilities at five additional locations
identified by the courts and circuit councils, as follows, subject to the ability of
the court to obtain space at each location on an as-needed basis should it continue
to require accommodations at that location: Clarksdale, Mississippi; Joplin,
Missouri; St. Joseph, Missouri; Ardmore, Oklahoma; and Guthrie, Oklahoma.




                                          39
Judicial Conference of the United States




           OPENING AND CLOSING FACILITIES

                   At this session, the Judicial Conference approved, on recommendation of
           the Court Administration and Case Management Committee, a two-stage process
           for evaluating the need for non-resident visiting judge facilities and criteria for
           acquiring and releasing space in probation and pretrial services offices (see supra,
           "Space Cost Containment," pp. 17-20). To supplement these processes, the
           Security, Space and Facilities Committee recommended, and the Judicial
           Conference agreed, to require a report addressing the criteria approved by the
           Judicial Conference, or circuit council-specific criteria, to accompany any space
           request for a new facility without a judicial officer in permanent residence or for a
           new probation or pretrial services office.


           USE OF COURT FACILITIES BY STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS

                    The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Security,
           Space and Facilities Committee that, as a cost-savings measure, it strongly
           encourage courts to enter into shared facilities arrangements with state and local
           governments, or other entities. The Conference agreed to direct the
           Administrative Office to develop instructions and procedures for use by courts
           wishing to enter into such arrangements and to provide financial incentives to
           courts consummating agreements with state and local governments or other
           entities, subject to funding availability.


           SPACE MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES PLAN

                   Initially, the Space Management Initiatives in the Federal Courts Plan
           called for square footage and dollar allotments to be provided to each circuit
          judicial council. Because personnel staffing and costs are now projected to
           increase at a greater rate than was contemplated when the space rental restrictions
           were first considered by the Conference, it appears that the development of space
           allotments is not financially feasible, and the Committee recommended that the
           Plan be amended. The Committee further recommended that the November 1995
           "Interim Guidelines for Acquisition of Space and Funding of Tenant Alterations,"
           issued by the Administrative Office, should be used to limit future space growth,

                                                    40
                                                                            March 11, 1997



    and that space assignments should be reviewed periodically with a view toward
    controlling costs. The Judicial Conference approved the recommendations of the
    Security, Space and Facilities Committee, as follows:

    a.     Amended the Space Management Initiatives in the Federal Courts Plan to
           delete the requirement that the AO provide allotments of square footage
           and space funding caps to the judicial councils, and add language
           providing that mechanisms for reducing space costs will be developed for
           use when needed if funding levels in annual financial plans do not support
           the priorities established by the Executive Committee;

    b.     Agreed to require space reduction reports (evaluations of current space
           holdings to determine if space can be used more effectively or released to
           the General Services Administration) to be submitted by circuit councils
           on a biennial basis;

    C.      Agreed to require that space benchmarks, once developed, be used by
           judicial councils when considering space requests. This action will ensure
            that courts and circuit councils examine and evaluate space requests using
            the Design Guide and other space analytical tools, including national space
            utilization averages, in making decisions to acquire space; and

    d.     Endorsed continued use by the AO until further notice of the November
           1995 "Interim Guidelines for Space Acquisition and Tenant Alterations
           Funding" to limit future space growth.


MAIL BALLOTS

            The Judicial Conference completed two mail ballots since its last session.
    On November 18, 1996, the Conference concluded a ballot approving a report on
    the "optimal utilization of judicial resources" and authorized the report's
    transmittal to Congress (see supra, "Optimal Utilization of Judicial Resources,"
    pp. 7-8). By mail ballot concluded on January 27, 1997, the Conference
    unanimously endorsed a Judicial Branch Committee proposal to seek legislation
    on judicial compensation (see supra, "Committee Activities," p. 26).




                                            41
Judicial Conference of the United Slates



FUNDING

                   All of the foregoing recommendations which require the expenditure of
           funmds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to the
           availability of finds, and subject to whatever priorities the Conference might
           establish for the use of available resources.


RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

                   Except as otherwise specified, the Conference authorized the immediate
           release of matters considered by this session where necessary for legislative or
           administrative action.




                                                        Chief Justice Zthe United States
                                                        Presiding




                                                   42
                                                                   March 11, 1997



INDEX

Administrative Office, Committee on the, 10

Administrative Office of the U. S. Courts
     bankruptcy data collection, 12
     District of Columbia court system funding, 6-7, 14
      firearms regulations, 22
     magistrate judge positions, 29
      sharing court facilities, instructions and procedures, 40
      space acquisition and tenant alterations guidelines, 40-41
     temporary Article III judgeships proposal, 27-28

Alternative dispute resolution, 16-17

Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty
       Act of 1966, 23-24, 24

Appropriations
      Court Security account, 9
      commission to study boundaries of circuits, 9
      defender organizations funding, 22
      Defender Services account, 24
      fee account, 9

Arbitration programs
       staffing resources, 16-17

Arnold, Richard S., 5-6

Attorney General of the United States, 8

Automation
     computer-assisted legal research, 10
     J-Net, 10
     Long Range Planfor Automation in the FederalJudiciary,10

Automation and Technology, Committee on, 10, 10-11, 37


                                           43
Judicial Conference of the United States



Bankruptcy judges (see judges, bankruptcy)

Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994, 13

Bankruptcy system
      code, dollar amounts adjustment, 13
      courtroom for complex proceedings, 38
      fees, miscellaneous, 20
      judgeships, additional, 11I- 12
      National Bankruptcy Review Commission, 13
      statistical reporting, 12

Bankruptcy System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 9, 10, 11-13

Biennial judgeship needs surveys (see judgeships, Article III; judgeships,
bankruptcy)

Budget, Committee on the, 6-7, 14

Carnes, Julie, 5

Chambers
     location, 38
     size, 37

Chief judges, circuit, 23, 25

Circuit judges (see judges, circuit)

Circuit judicial councils
       conduct and disability orders, 34
       courthouse construction and renovation, 37-39
       courtroom planning model, 36-37




                                           44
                                                                         March))1, 1997



Circuit judicial councils (continued)
        courtroom sharing, 18, 36-37
        courtrooms for complex bankruptcy proceedings, 38
        judgeship needs survey, district, 27
        magistrate judge positions, 29
        opening and closing facilities, 40
        release of court facilities, 39, 40
        space acquisition and release, 18-19, 19-20, 40
        space for libraries, 37
        space management initiatives plan, 19, 40-41
        space reduction reports, biennial, 19, 40

Circuit libraries (see libraries)

Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990 (CJRA), 15-16
        staffing resources, 16-17

Civil rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Codes of conduct
      Ethics Reform Act gift regulations, 14-15

Codes of Conduct, Committee on, 14-15

Commission to study the structure and alignment of the courts of appeals, 9

Community defender organizations (see defender services)

Compensation
      death penalty, services other than counsel, 23
      death penalty representation, 23
      disclosure of Criminal Justice Act payments, 24
     judicial, 26, 41
      Criminal Justice Act panel attorney, 8
      non-capital habeas corpus representation, 25

Computer-assisted legal research, 10



                                            45
Judicial Conference of the United States


Conduct and disability, judicial
     Illustrative Rules Governing Complaints, 34
     Rules for Processing of Petitions for Review, 34

Conduct and Disability Orders, Committee to Review Circuit Council, 34

Confidentiality, sexual assault victims and therapists, 35

Congressional Accountability Act of 1995
      model employment dispute resolution plan, 28

Congress
      bankruptcy code dollar amounts adjustment, 13
      circuit boundaries study commission, 9
      Civil Justice Reform Act, 15-16
      confidentiality, sexual assault victims and therapists, 35-36
      Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 report, 28
      Criminal Justice Act, panel attorney compensation, 8
      District of Columbia court system funding, 6-7, 14
      federal building construction, 37
      fee account, 9
      five-year courthouse construction plan, 39
      judgeships, Article 111, 26-27
      judgeships, bankruptcy, 11I- 12
      judgeships, temporary, 27-28
      judicial compensation, linkage with legislative
               and executive branches, 26
      judicial resources, utilization, 7-8, 12, 41
      rules of practice and procedure amendments, 34-36
      victims' rights, constitutional amendment, 21

Constitution of the United States
       amendment, 21

Court administration
      Civil Justice Reform Act, 15
      miscellaneous fee schedules, 20



                                            46
                                                                 March 11, 1997



Court Administration and Case Management,
Committee on, 15-20

Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, 6-7, 14

Court Personnel System, 38

Court reporters, 28-29

Courthouses (see space and facilities)

Courtrooms
      bankruptcy, complex proceedings, 38
      chambers on separate floor, 38
      planning model, 36-37
      senior judges sharing, 17-18, 36-37

Courts of appeals
       structure and alignment study commission, 9

Criminal Justice Act (CJA) (see also defender services)
      comprehensive study, 8
      death penalty representation, 23-24
      disclosure of compensation payments, 24
      guidelines, 23-24, 24
      non-capital habeas corpus representation, 25
      panel attorney administration, pilot program, 24
      panel attorney compensation rate, 8
      voucher review, 24

Criminal law (see also probation and pretrial services system)
      drug testing, pretrial, 8
      firearms and ammunition regulations, 22
      risk prediction index, 21
      victims' rights, 21

Criminal Law, Committee on, 6, 19, 21-22

Criminal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

                                           47
Judicial Conference of the United State,


Defender services (see also Criminal Justice Act)
      case compensation maximums, 25
      community defender organizations, funding, 22
      death penalty representation, 23-24
      disclosure of CJA payments, 24
      federal public defender organizations, funding, 22
      fees for services other than cbunsel, 23
      non-capital habeas corpus representation, 24
      panel attorney administration, pilot program, 24
      panel attorney compensation rate, 8

Defender Services, Committee on, 8, 22-25

Department of Justice
      Attorney General, 8
      Operation Drug TEST, 8
      United States trustee program, 9

Design Guide (see United States Courts Design Guide)

District courts (see also bankruptcy system; magistrate judges system;
probation and pretrial services system)
        court reporters, 28-29
        courtroom sharing, 17-18, 36-37
        courtrooms for complex bankruptcy proceedings, 38
        drug testing, pretrial, 8
        electronic sound recording, 28-29
       judgeship needs survey, 27
       judgeships, additional, 27
       judgeships, temporary, 27-28
        magistrate judge positions, 29-33
        magistrate judges, background investigations, 29
        space, acquiring and releasing, 18-20, 40

 District judges (see judges, district)

 District of Columbia court system funding, 6-7, 14

 Drug testing, pretrial, 8

                                           48
                                                                March 11, 1997



Electronic sound recording (ESR), 28-29

Employment dispute resolution model plan, 28

Ethics Reform Act of 1989, 14-15, 26

Executive branch
       Attorney General, 8
       compensation, linkage with judiciary, 26
       President of the United States, 4, 6-7, 13

Executive Committee, 4-10, 21, 41

Evidence rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Federal Bureau of Investigation, 29

Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1996, 4, 13, 20, 22, 34-35

Federal Judgeship Act of 1990, 27-28

Federal Judicial Center
      bankruptcy informapauperis pilot, 10
      Civil Justice Reform Act, 15-16
      election to the board, 4
      risk prediction index, 21
      sentencing program, 9

Federal public defender organizations (see defender services)

Federal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Federal-State Jurisdiction, Committee on, 6, 21

Fees
       account, 9
       bankruptcy miscellaneous, 20
       Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, 20
       miscellaneous schedules, 20

                                            49
Judicial Conference of the United Stales



Financial Disclosure, Committee on, 25

Financial disclosure reports, 25

Firearms regulations, 22

General Accounting Office, 39

General Services Administration, 37, 39, 41

Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and Procedures
       Criminal Justice Act guidelines, 23
       firearms and ammunition regulations, 22
       illegal drugs in the workplace, 9

Guidelinesfor the Administration of the Criminal
      Justice Act, 23-24, 24

Habeas corpus
      federal capital cases, 23-24
      non-capital cases, 25

Illustrative Rules Governing Complaints of Judicial Misconduct
and Disability, 34

Intercircuit and intracircuit assignments
        bankruptcy judges, statistics, 12

Intercircuit Assignments, Committee on, 25

Interim Guidelinesfor Acquisition of Space and Funding Tenant
Alterations, 40-41

Internal Revenue Service, 29

 International Judicial Relations, Committee on, 26




                                            50
                                                                                   March 11, 1997


Judges, Article III (see also judges, circuit; judges, district; judges, senior)
       chambers, 37, 38
       code of conduct gift regulations, 14-15
       compensation, 26, 41
       courtroom sharing, 17-18, 36
       financial disclosure reports, 25
       intercircuit assignments, 25
       subsistence rates, 9
       visiting judge facilities, 36, 40

Judges, bankruptcy (see also bankruptcy system)
       code of conduct gift regulations, 14-15
       financial disclosure reports, 25
       intercircuit and intracircuit assignments data, 12
       reappointment regulations, 13

Judges, circuit (see also judges, Article III; judges, senior)
       chief, Criminal Justice Act compensation, 23, 25

Judges, district (see also judges, Article 111; judges, senior)
      court reporters, 28-29
      electronic sound recording, 28-29

Judges, magistrate (see also magistrate judges system)
       background investigations, 29
       code of conduct gift regulations, 14-15
       courtroom size, 38
       financial disclosure reports, 25

Judges, senior (see also judges, Article 111)
       courtrooms, 17-18, 36-37

Judgeships, Article III
      additional, 26-28
      needs survey process, district, 27
      needs surveys, 26-28
      temporary, 27-28
      vacancies, law clerk assistance, 9


                                                51
Judicial Conference of the United States



Judgeships, bankruptcy
      additional, 11I- 12

Judicial branch
          Congressional Accountability Act, 28
          drug policy, 9
          judicial compensation, 26, 41

Judicial Branch, Committee on the, 9, 26, 41

Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, 34
       processing of petitions for review, 34

Judicial Conference of the United States
       federal defender program report, 8
       funding of actions, 42
       release of actions, 42
       resolution for former committee chair, 5-6

Judicial councils of the circuits (see circuit judicial councils)

Judicial independence, 26

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, 20

Judicial resources, utilization, 7-8, 12, 41

Judicial Resources, Committee on, 9, 26-29
       Subcommittee on Judicial Statistics, 26-27

Law clerks
      courts with judgeship vacancies, 9
      relocation allowance, 9

 Legislation
        commission to study circuit boundaries, 9
        victims' rights constitutional amendment, 21



                                               52
                                                            March 11, 1997


Libraries
       computer-assisted legal research, 10
       functional requirements, 11, 37
       satellite and unstaffed, 11, 37

Long Range Planfor Automation in the FederalJudiciary, 10

Long range planning:
      automation, 10
      model for courtroom planning, 36-37

Magistrate judges (see judges, magistrate)

Magistrate judges system
      courtroom size, 38

Magistrate Judges System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 29-33

Mail ballots, 7-8, 26, 41

Mazzone, A. David, 5

Morgan, Virginia M., 4

Murphy, Diana E., 5

National Bankruptcy Review Commission, 13

National Firearms Training Manual, 22

O'Brien, Donald E., 5

Operation Drug TEST, 8

Optimal utilization of judicial resources, 7-8, 41

Panel attorneys (see defender services)


                                             53
Judicial Conference of the United States



Peris, Elizabeth L., 4

Personnel, court
      arbitration programs, staffing resources, 16-17
       Civil Justice Reform Act, staffing resources, 16-17
       code of conduct gift regulations, 14-15
       court reporters, 28-29
       financial disclosure reports, 25
       office sizes, 38

Pilot programs
        arbitration programs, 16-17
        bankruptcy informa pauperis, 10
        Civil Justice Reform Act, 15-16, 16-17
        panel attorney administration, 24

 President of the United States
        bankruptcy code dollar adjustments, 13
        District of Columbia court system, 6-7, 14
        sentencing commission vacancies, 4-5

 Pretrial services (see probation and pretrial services system)

 Probation and pretrial services system
        District of Columbia offenders, 6-7
        firearms and ammunition regulations, 22
        risk prediction index, 21
        space, acquiring and releasing, 19-20, 40

 Probation system (see probation and pretrial services system)

 Public buildings (see space and facilities)

  RAND Corporation, 15-16

 Regulations of the Director of the Administrative Office Concerning
 Carryingand Using Firearmsby United States Probation and Pretrial
 Services Officers, 22


                                               54
                                                                        March 11, 1997



Regulations of the JudicialConference EstablishingStandards and
Proceduresfor the Appointment and Reappointment of United States
MagistrateJudges, 29

Regulations of the JudicialConference of the United States
for the Selection, Appointment, and Reappointment of United States
Bankruptcy Judges, 13

Relocation allowance, 9

Report on Death Penalty Representation, 23

Report of the Judicial Conference of the United States on the Federal
Defender Program,8

Resolution
       Arnold, Richard S., 5-6

Resources utilization (see judicial resources, utilization)

Risk prediction index, 21

Rules of practice and procedure
       civil procedure, 34-3 5
       criminal procedure, 35
       evidence, 35-36

Rules of Practice and Procedure, Committee on, 34-36

Rules of the JudicialConference of the United Statesfor the
Processingof Petitionsfor Review of Circuit Council Orders under
the JudicialConduct and DisabilityAct, 34

Security
       Court Security account, 9

Security, Space and Facilities, Committee on, 11, 19, 36-41

Senior judges (see judges, senior)

                                             55
JudiilConference of the United Slates



Sentencing
       commission vacancies, 4-5
       program, 9

Small, A. Thomas, 4

Space and facilities
      acquiring and releasing space, 18-20, 40
       circulation factor, 38
       cost containment plan, 17-20, 36-37, 39, 40, 40-41
       courthouse construction and renovation, 37-39
       courtroom planning model, 36-37
       courtroom sharing, 17-18
       courtroom size for magistrate judges, 38
       five-year courthouse construction plan, 39
       Interim Guidelinesfor Space Acquisition and
                Tenant AIterations Funding, 40-41
       libraries, 11, 37
       release of court facilities, 39
       sharing with state and local entities, 40
       space benchmarks, 41
       space management initiatives plan, 40-41
       space reduction reports, biennial, 19, 40-41
       space rental cost containment, 17-20, 36-37, 39, 40, 40-41
       tenant alterations, 40-4 1
        United States Courts Design Guide, 11, 36-37, 37-39, 41

 Space Management Initiatives in the Federal Courts, 39, 40-41
 Staffing resources
         arbitration programs, 16-17
         Civil Justice Reform Act programs, 16-17

 Subcommittee on Judicial Statistics, 26-27

 Superior Court of the District of Columbia, 6-7, 14

 Supporting personnel (see personnel, court)



                                            56
                                                                                                March 11, 1997



Supreme Court of the United States
      financial disclosure reports, 25
      intercircuit assignments, 25
      rules of practice and procedure amendments, 34-36

Technology (see automation)

United States Courts Design Guide, 11, 36-37, 37-39, 41

United States Sentencing Commission, 4-5

United States trustee program, 9

Victims' rights
       constitutional amendment, 20-2 1




                                                   'US, Government Printing Office. 1997 - 520-071
                                          57
