-REPORTOF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES




MARCH 16, 1999

WASHINGTON, D.C.




JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES
CHIEFJUSTICE WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST,
PRESIDING
LEONIDAS RALPH MECHAM, SECRETARY
REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES

March 16, 1999


     Contents

     Call of the Conference...........................                          .. ....4
                                                                               .....
                                                                             ...
     Reports ......................................                            ..... ....4
                                                                             .....
     Elections......................................                           ..... ....4
                                                                             .....
     Executive Committee............................                          ... ... ...4
                                                                             ....
             Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance ........                  ..... ....5
                                                                             .....
             Budgetary Matters.........................                      .... .... ..6
             Federal Courts Improvement Legislation .........                  .. ... ...6
                                                                              ...
                                                                             ..
             Miscellaneous Actions......................                     . ..... ....7
                                                                             ....
     Committee on the Administrative Office ..............                   . ..... ....7
                                                                             ....
             Committee Activities.......................                     ..... ....8
                                                                               .....
     Committee on Automation and Technology ...........                        ..... ....8
                                                                             ....
             Courtroom Technologies ....................                       .... ... 8
                                                                             .....
             Long Range Plan for Information Technology.                    ..... ... 8
                                                                              .....
             Access to Internet Sites ....................
     Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System ..............                 .9
             Bankruptcy Judgeships ...................................                       .9
             Bankruptcy Estate Administration ...........................                    10
     Committee on the Budget.......................................
             Committee Activities.....................................
     Committee on Codes of Conduct..................................
              Committee Activities.....................................
     Committee on Court Administration and Case Management .............                      12
              Program for Prompt Disposition of Protracted, Difficult, or
                      Widely Publicized Cases ............................                    12
                                                                                              13
              Bankruptcy Noticing Guidelines ............................
              Commission on Structural Alternatives for the
                      Federal Courts of Appeals ...........................                   14
     Committee on Criminal Law ................................                                14
                                                                                   ...........................
              Home Confinement Program Monograph .................                             14
                                                                                   ...........................
              Pretrial Services Investigation and Report Monograph .........                   15
                                                                                   ...........................
              Operation Drug TEST ...............................                              15
                                                                                    ..........................
Committee on Defender Services..................................              15
     Disclosure of Criminal Justice Act Payments ....................         15
     Defender Organization Funding Requests .......................            16
Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction.............................           16
      Year 2000 Legislation ....................................              16
Committee on Financial Disclosure ................................            17
      Judges' Recusal Obligations................................              17
      Committee Activities .....................................               18
Committee on Intercircuit Assignments.............................            18
      Committee Activities.....................................                18
Committee on International Judicial Relations .........................        18
      Committee Activities .....................................               18
Committee on the Judicial Branch .................................            19
      Judicial Compensation ....................................               19
      Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges ............   19
      Relocation Regulations for United States Justices and Judges ........   20
Committee on Judicial Resources .................................             21
      Article III Judgeship Needs ................................            21
      Judicial Emergencies .....................................               23
      Secretaries to Federal Judges ...............................           23
      Death Penalty Law Clerks .................................              24
      Court Reporter Compensation...............................               24
      Transcript Rates.........................................               25
      Courtroom Support for District Judges .........................          26
      Law Clerks for Magistrate Judges............................             26
      Bankruptcy Administrators ................................              26
      Recruitment and Retention Bonuses..........................             27
      Alternative Dispute Resolution Staffing ........................         27
      Telecommuting Policy ....................................                28
      Judiciary Benefits Initiative ................................          28
Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System ..........     29
      Selection and Appointment Regulations ........................           29
      Changes in Magistrate Judge Positions .........................          29
Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders ........     32
      Committee Activities .....................................               32
Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure........................           33
      Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure..........................            33
Committee on Security and Facilities...............................            34
      After-Hours Courthouse Security............................              34
      Public Buildings Reform Legislation ..........................           34
      Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan...........................             35
      Role of the Committee ....................................                35
      Parking Policy......................................                     36
                                                                               3
Resolution ..................................................   36
Funding....................................................     3
REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


March 16, 1999

             The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
     D.C., on March 16, 1999, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United
     States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 33 1. The Chief Justice presided, and the
     following members of the Conference were present:

            First Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Juan R. Torruella
                    Judge Joseph A. DiClerico, Jr.,
                           District of New Hampshire

            Second Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Ralph K. Winter, Jr.
                    Chief Judge Charles P. Sifton,
                           Eastern District of New York

            Third Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Edward R. Becker
                    Chief Judge Donald E. Ziegler,
                           Western District of Pennsylvania

            Fourth Circuit:

                    Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson ILL
                    Chief Judge Charles H. Haden II,
                           Southern District of West Virginia

            Fifth Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King
                    Judge Hayden W. Head, Jr.,
                           Southern District of Texas
Judicial Conference of the United States


                 Sixth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Boyce F. Martin, Jr.
                          Judge Thomas A. Wiseman, Jr.,
                                 Middle District of Tennessee

                 Seventh Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Richard A. Posner
                          Judge Robert L. Miller, Jr.,
                                 Northern District of Indiana

                 Eight Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Pasco M. Bowman 11
                          Judge James M. Rosenbaum,
                                 District of Minnesota

                 Ninth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Procter Hug, Jr.
                          Judge Lloyd D. George,
                                 District of Nevada

                 Tenth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Stephanie K. Seymour
                          Judge Ralph G. Thompson,
                                 Western District of Oklahoma

                 Eleventh Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Joseph W. Hatchett
                          Judge Win. Terrell Hodges,
                                 Middle District of Florida




                                                   2
                                                                     March 16, 1999


        District of Columbia Circuit:

               Chief Judge Hanry T. Edwards
               Chief Judge Norma H. Johnson,
                      District of Columbia

        Federal Circuit:

               Chief Judge Haldane Robert Mayer

        Court of International Trade:

               Chief Judge Gregory W. Carman

         Circuit Judges W. Eugene Davis, David R. Hansen, Jane R. Roth, Anthony
J. Scirica, David R. Thompson, and Walter K. Stapleton, and District Judges
Carol Bagley Amon, Robin J. Cauthron, Julia S. Gibbons, John G. Heybumn IL,D.
Brock Homby, George P. Kazen, David Levi, Edward W. Nottingham, Harvey E.
Schlesinger, and William J. Zioch attended the Conference session. Collins
Fitzpatrick, Circuit Executive for the Seventh Circuit, was also present.

        Senators Orrin Hatch and Patrick Leahy, and Representatives Howard
Berman, Howard Coble, and John Conyers, Jr., spoke on matters pending in
Congress of interest to the Conference. Attorney General Janet Reno addressed
the Conference on matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department
of Justice.

         Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence A.
Lee, Jr., Associate Director for Management and Operations; William R. Burchill,
Jr., Associate Director and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel, Assistant Director,
Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Michael W. Blommer, Assistant
Director, Legislative Affairs; Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant Director, Judicial
Conference Executive Secretariat; and David Sellers, Deputy Assistant Director,
Public Affairs. Judge Rya W. Zobel and Russell Wheeler, Director and Deputy
Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also attended the session of the
Conference, as did James Duff, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice, and
judicial fellows Mary Clark, Paul Fiorelli, Nancy Miller and Christie Warren.


                                        3
Judicial Conference of the United States


REPORTS

                Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
        courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office, and Judge Zobel
        spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs.


ELECTIONS

                The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
        Federal Judicial Center Circuit Judge Robert M. Parker of the Fifih Circuit to
        replace Circuit Judge Bruce Selya and District Judge William H. Yohn, Jr.,
        Eastern District of Pennsylvania, to replace District Judge Richard Matsch.


EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

        FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE

                 The Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance program consists of "basic"
        life insurance coverage and three categories of "optional" coverage. The Federal
        Employees' Life Insurance Improvement Act, Public Law No. 105-311, extends
        to all federal employees the ability, previously enjoyed by Article III judges alone,
        to carry Option B life insurance at ful face value into retirement by continuing to
        pay premiums. To implement this legislation, the Office of Personnel
        Management proposed rate changes that would substantially increase payments
        for judges 65 and over. On recommendation of the Executive Committee, taken
        up as new business at the Conference session, the Judicial Conference approved
        the following resolution:

                         The United States Office of Personnel Management's
                 (OPM) recent administrative action to effectively double the
                 Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) premiums of
                 hundreds of Article III judges raises serious systemic questions.
                 The action by OPM also poses a serious threat to the financial
                 security of the families of hundreds of sitting judges, and to the
                 future stability of the judiciary, as many judges have reasonably

                                                  4
                                                                     March 16, 1999


       relied on FEGLI as the keystone of their financial and estate
       planning. OPM's present action now leaves these judges without
       viable alternatives because of prohibitive costs or intervening
       uninsurability.

               Therefore, the Judicial Conference of the United States
       resolves that the Director of OPM and the President and, if
       necessary, the Congress of the United States, should immediately
       take the necessary action to preserve the existing relationship
       between judges and the FEGLI program.


BUDGETARY MATTERS

         Proposed Federal Courts Budget Protection Act. In September 1998, the
Judicial Conference agreed to seek funding for courthouse construction in the
judiciary's budget requests beginning in fiscal year 2000 (unless a further
assessment of congressional reaction to such a proposal counseled against such
 action), thus bypassing the Office of Management and Budget (JCUS-SEP 98, p.
 89). At a March 1999 meeting, the Executive Committee endorsed a legislative
proposal implementing this action. The legislative proposal also provides that the
judiciary's entire budget will be submitted directly to Congress. This provision
 would bolster, in the face of White House efforts to impose "negative allowances"
 against the judiciary's budget requests, the statutory requirement (31 U.S.C.
 § 1105(b)) that the President must submit the judiciary's budget "without
 change."

        Suplemental Appropriations for Court Security. In fiscal year 1998,
Congress approved an emergency supplemental appropriation for enhanced
security at embassies and other executive and legislative branch facilities housing
high-risk agencies, but no such funding was included for courthouses. On
recommendation of the chairmen of the Budget and Security and Facilities
Committees, the Executive Committee approved the filing with Congress of a
fiscal year 1999 emergency court security supplemental appropriations request for
approximately $30 million. The supplemental request (and a resulting
amendment to the judiciary's fiscal year 2000 appropriations request) would fund




                                         5
JudicialConference of the UnitedStates


        enhancements necessary to ensure that the level of perimeter security provided at
        federal court facilities is comparable to other facilities housing similar high-risk
        government agencies (see infra "Committee Activities" (Committee on the
        Budget), p. 11).


        FEDERAL COURTS IMPROVEMENT LEGISLATION

                In August 1997, the Executive Committee established a mechanism
        whereby each Judicial Conference committee is required to review periodically
        items within its jurisdiction that had been included in the most recent judiciary-
       proposed federal courts improvement bill. The committees are to inform the
        Executive Committee whether any provision should be deleted from the next such
       proposed bill (JCUS-SEP 97, p. 51). After reviewing the Conference committees'
       positions on items included in the federal courts improvement bill proposed by the
       judiciary for consideration in the 105"' Congress, the Executive Committee asked
       the Security and Facilities Committee to reconsider its decision not to pursue, at
       this time, a provision to authorize federal judges to carry firearms for purposes of
       personal security and to establish a firearms training program. The Security and
       Facilities Committee subsequently agreed to include the item in the courts
       improvement bill transmitted to the 106"'h Congress. With regard to items that fall
       within the original jurisdiction of the Executive Committee, the Committee agreed
       to seek comments from the Federal Judicial Center Board before pursuing the
       creation of a Judicial Conference Foundation to receive and expend private
       contributions in support of official programs, including international education
       initiatives (see JCUS-MAR 95, p. 6). The Committee also agreed to include a
       provision in the next judiciary-proposed courts improvement bill permitting the
       Directors of the Federal Judicial Center and the Administrative Office, and the
       Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice, to receive retirement credit for
       certain prior government service in the legislative branch.


       MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                The Executive Committee:

                authorized courts to pay relocation allowances, using local funds, for
                transferees or new appointees to positions as court unit executives and

                                                 6
                                                                           March 16, 1999


            their "type 11 deputies" who perform as full alter egos, if both the chief
            judge and the circuit judicial council conclude that the relocation of the
            affected employee and payment of such expenses is "in the interest of the
            Government";

            agreed by mail ballot in October 1998, that the judiciary should vigorously
            seek to have a provision requiring reporting of judges' travel expenses
            deleted from S. 2516 ( 1 0 5 "hCongress) or, if unsuccessful, oppose the
            legislation in its entirety (but see infra "Travel Regulations for United
            States Justices and Judges," p. 20);

        *   determined that the judiciary's long-range planning process would be
            enhanced if it involved the chairs of appropriate Conference committees
            rather than designated liaisons from the committees, particularly in light of
            increased emphasis on long-range planning and budgeting; and

       *    made a number of referrals to Conference committees, for example, to the
            Criminal Law Committee suggesting that it ensure oversight of the home
            confinement program and to the Defender Services Committee asking it to
            monitor certain appearances in state court by federal defenders.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee was briefed on a number of Administrative Office
    activities including initiatives to control the volume of correspondence and
    surveys sent to judges and court officials, efforts to enhance and integrate long-
    range planning and budgeting, continuing efforts to obtain adequate resources
    from Congress, and several major human resources initiatives. In addition, the
    Committee, reviewing positions that had previously been included in federal
    courts improvement legislation, noted that a provision transferring from the
    Administrative Office to the Department of Justice responsibility for filing an
    annual wiretap report with Congress has been strongly opposed by the Department
    of Justice. The Committee determined to postpone further legislative efforts in
    this regard pending consideration of alternative strategies for changing the
    reporting requirement. The Committee also recognized the 6 0 1h anniversary of the

                                             7
JudicialConference of the United States


        creation of the Administrative Office and commended its six directors and their
        staffs for exemplary service to the federal judiciary.



COMMITTEE ON AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGY

        COURTROOM TECHNOLOGIES

                Believing that courtroom technologies constitute a significant
        enhancement to the fact-finding mission of the federal courts, the Committee on
        Automation and Technology recommended that the Judicial Conference endorse
        the use of such technologies in the courtroom, including video evidence
        presentation systems, videoconferencing systems, and electronic methods of
        taking the record. The Committee further recommended that the Conference,
        subject to the availability of funds and priorities set by the Committee, urge that
        (a) courtroom technologies be considered as necessary and integral padts of
        courtrooms undergoing construction or major renovation; and (b) the same
        courtroom technologies be retrofitted into existing courtrooms or those
        undergoing tenant alterations as appropriate. The Conference approved the
        Committee's recommendations.


        LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

               Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612, on recommendation of the Committee on
        Automation and Technology, the Judicial Conference approved the 1999 update to
        the Long Range Planfor Information Technology in the FederalJudiciary.


        ACCESS TO INTERNET SITES

                In accordance with Judicial Conference policy (JCUS-SEP 97, pp. 52-53),
        access to the Internet for any computer connected to the judiciary's data
        communications network is provided only through national gateway connections
        approved by the Administrative Office. The national gateways are equipped with
        software that is capable of blocking access to certain Internet sites. The
        Committee on Automation and Technology recommended that the Conference



                                                  8
                                                                              March 16, 1999


    authorize the national gateway connections to block access to adult-oriented,
    pornographic Web sites on the Internet, with access to these sites for individual
    court employees being provided for official business upon request of any judicial
    officer. Viewing this as a local matter, the Judicial Conference declined to
    approve the Committee's recommendation.



COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

    BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

             The Judicial Conference is required by 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(2) to submit
     recommendations for new bankruptcy judgeships to Congress, which establishes
    the number of such judgeships for each judicial district. In March 1991, the
    Conference adopted a policy that provides for a national survey ofjudgeship
    needs every two years and establishes criteria for evaluating requests for
    additional bankruptcy judgeships (JCUS-MAR 91, pp. 12-13).' Based on the
     1998 biennial survey of judgeship needs, the Committee on the Administration of
    the Bankruptcy System recommended that the Judicial Conference transmit to
    Congress proposed legislation to create 24 additional bankruptcy judgeships
    (either permanent or temporary, using the most recent per judgeship weighted
    filing statistics available at the time proposed legislation for the judgeships is sent
    to Congress). The Judicial Conference approved the recommendation for
    judgeships in the following districts:

             District of Puerto Rico (1)'
             Northern District of New York (1)
             Eastern District of New York (1)
             Southern District of New York (1)
             District of Delaware (1)


     Congress has not acted on the Conference's requests for additional bankruptcy
   judgeships based on three biennial surveys conducted between 1993 and 1997.

    2'This is in addition to a September 1997 Judicial Conference determination to
    pursue legislation to make permanent an existing temporary judgeship in the
    District of Puerto Rico (JCUS-SEP 97, pp. 53-54).

                                               9
JudicialConference of the United States


                District of New Jersey (1)
                Eastern District of Pennsylvania (1)
                Middle District of Pennsylvania (1)
                District of Maryland (3)
                Eastern District of North Carolina (1)
                Eastern District of Virginia (1)
                Southern District of Mississippi (1)
                Eastern District of Michigan (1)
                Western District of Tennessee (1)
                Eastern District of California (1)
                Central District of California (4)
                Southern District of Georgia (1)
                Southern District of Florida (2)

               The Conference also agreed to recommend that the judgeship in the
       Southern District of Georgia currently shared with the Middle District of Georgia
       be convented to a full-time position for the Middle District of Georgia and that the
       proposed judgeship in the Southern District of Mississippi provide assistance to
       the Northern District of Mississippi. In addition, the Conference approved and
       agreed to transmit to Congress a request to make the existing temporary
       bankruptcy judgeship in the District of Delaware permanent, in lieu of a previous
       determination to recommend that it be extended to the first vacancy occurring due
       to death, retirement, resignation, or removal in the district that occurs 10 years or
       more after the date on which the temporary judgeship was originally filled (see
       JCUS-SEP 97, pp. 53-54).


       BANKRUPTCY ESTATE ADMINISTRATION

              In September 1991, the Judicial Conference approved a memorandum of
      understanding (MOU) between the Executive Office for United States Trustees
      (EOUST) and the Administrative Office describing the respective duties of the
       United States trustee, the court, and the clerk in the case closing process and post-
      confirmation monitoring of chapter 11I cases (JCUS-SEP 91, p. 53). At its March
       1996 session, the Judicial Conference, on recommendation of the Bankruptcy
      Committee, approved an amended MOU (JCUS-MAR 96, pp. 9-10). The
      amendments, among other things, specified the responsibility of the United States
      trustee in verifying the reliability of case trustee certification procedures and the
      accuracy of trustee reports so that bankruptcy judges can be assured that each case


                                                10
                                                                           March 16, 1999


     has been fully administered and may be ordered closed. Although the Director of
     the BOUST had verbally approved the amended MOU prior to its approval by the
     Conference, he did not sign the agreement. After further modifications addressing
     concerns of both parties, the EOUST Director signed a revised agreement, and, on
     recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the revised
     Amended Memorandum of Understanding Between the Executive Office for
     United States Trustees and the Administrative Office of the United States Courts
     Regarding Case Closing and Post Confirmation Chapter 11I Monitoring.


COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on the Budget reviewed adjustments to the fiscal year
    2000 budget request and was updated on developments related to the June 15,
     1999 cutoff of obligation authority for judiciary appropriations contained in the
    judiciary's fiscal year 1999 appropriations act (Public Law No. 105-277). The
    Committee was briefed on a number of additional issues, including the
    Administrative Office's efforts to obtain funds from Congress to continue
    courthouse construction and its initiative to improve the judiciary's financial
    management program. The Committee endorsed in principle a recommendation
    of the Committee on Security and Facilities that a fiscal year 1999 supplemental
    appropriations request and a fiscal year 2000 budget request amendment for
    additional court security officers and for court security upgrades be submitted to
    Congress .3 The Committee also discussed efforts to enhance long-range planning
    and budgeting in the judiciary.


COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

           Judges' Recusal Obligations. The Committee on Codes of Conduct
    reported on the efforts of several Judicial Conference committees to assist judges


    'The Executive Committee subsequently approved the recomnmendation on behalf
    of the Conference (see supra "Budgetary Matters," pp. 5-6).

                                            II
JudicialConference of/the United States


        in meeting their recusal obligations. These initiatives include enhanced education
        and training to ensure that judges are aware of their recusal responsibilities;
        dissemination of information directly to judges about their recusal responsibilities;
        development of model checklists for judges to use in drawing up recusal lists;
        examination of automated systems to compare judges' recusal lists to their court
        dockets; consideration of amendments to the federal rules to require parties to
        disclose corporate affiliates that may necessitate judges' recusal; and examination
        of a requirement that a recusal check be done before any order is entered in a case.
        At the request of the Judicial Conference (JCUS-SEP 98, p. 61), the Committee
        also reconsidered a resolution, before the Conference in September 1998,
        concerning disclosure to litigants of recusal lists. The Committee concluded that
        its original position, that such disclosure was not required by the Code of Conduct
        for United States Judges, was sound and that policy considerations counseled
        against a blanket rule regarding judges maintaining recusal lists in clerks' offices.
        See also infra "Judges' Recusal Obligations," pp 17-18.

               Advisory Opinions. The Committee reviewed and approved an advisory
       opinion summarizing the factors about which judges should be sensitive when
       engaging in settlement discussions and an opinion summarizing the Committee's
       advice pertaining to judges serving as trustees. Both opinions will be published in
       Volume 11 of the Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and Procedures. The Committee
       also agreed to republish the entire contents of Volume 11 of the Guide.

               Inquiries. Since its last report to the Conference in September 1998, the
       Committee on Codes of Conduct received 38 new written inquiries and issued 34
       written advisory responses. The average response time for inquiries was 24 days.
       The Chairman received and responded to 16 telephonic inquiries. In addition,
       individual Committee members responded to 77 inquiries from their colleagues.


COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
AND CASE MANAGEMENT

       PROGRAM FOR PROMPT DISPOSITION OF PROTRACTED,
       DIFFICULT, OR WIDELY PUBLICIZED CASES

               The Program for Prompt Disposition of Protracted, Difficult, or Widely
       Publicized Cases (commonly referred to as the "Bar Harbor Resolution") was


                                                12
                                                                      March 16, 1999


 approved by the Judicial Conference in 1971 (JCUS-OCT 71, pp. 71-74) and
reaffirmed in September 1997 (JCUS-SEP 97, p. 64). The program was originally
 intended to ensure the orderly and prompt disposition of complex cases by
allowing a chief judge to assign them to specific judges. Addressing concerns
raised (e.g., a greater potential for "judge shopping" and specialization), the
Committee on Court Administration and Case Management concluded that the
program was inconsistent with the concept of judicial autonomy. After seeking
input from district court chief judges, the Committee recommended that the
Judicial Conference rescind the 1971 Bar Harbor Resolution and its September
 1997 reaffirmation of the program, as not compatible with the random assignment
of cases. The Conference approved the recommendation. In addition, to offset
the sometimes unequal workloads resulting from random selection, which can
threaten a court's ability to manage its caseload, on recommendation of the
Committee, the Conference agreed to-

a.     recommend that districts with multi-category case assignment systems, at
       their discretion, consider establishing one or more categories for protracted
       or complex cases to ensure that these cases are assigned randomly and
       evenly to all judges; and

b.      recommend that districts, at their discretion, consider establishing a
       procedure that would allow for the voluntary transfer of an already-
       assigned case back to the random assignment system. Such a procedure
        should incorporate the need for agreement between the chief judge and the
       judge to whom the case was originally assigned.


BANKRUPTCY NOTICING GUIDELINES

        In March 1986, the Judicial Conference approved guidelines that provide
for the preparation and mailing of notices in bankruptcy cases by persons other
than bankruptcy clerks (JCUS-MAR 86, p. 21). Since that time, there have been
changes to the bankruptcy rules and procedures that necessitate procedural, non-
substantive revisions to the guidelines. With the concurrence of the Committee
on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System, the Committee on Court
Administration and Case Management recommended, and the Conference
approved, proposed procedural revisions to the bankruptcy noticing guidelines.
On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference also agreed to delegate
authority to the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management, in

                                        13
Judicial Conference of the United States


        consultation with the Bankruptcy Committee, to approve all future procedural
        revisions to the bankruptcy noticing guidelines.


        COMMISSION ON STRUCTURAL ALTERNATIVES FOR THE FEDERAL
        COURTS OF APPEALS

                 The Commission on Structural Alternatives for the Federal Courts of
        Appeals, appointed by the Chief Justice pursuant to Public Law No. 105-119,
        issued its final report in December 1998. The report contained, among other
        things, a recommendation that circuit judicial councils be authorized to establish
        district court appellate panels (DCAPs), which would provide the first level of
        review for designated categories of cases that involve error correction, with
        discretionary review in the courts of appeals. Concerned that DCAPs would slow
       down the resolution of appeals by adding another tier of review, would be difficult
       to administer, and would likely undermine uniformity of the federal system and
       collegiality among judges within a circuit (requiring more en banc rehearings to
       resolve conflicts among panels and requiring district court judges to sit in review
       of their colleagues' decisions), the Committee recommended that the Judicial
       Conference oppose the proposal of the Commission on Structural Alternatives for
       the Federal Courts regarding the establishment of district court appellate panels.
       After discussion and consideration of further input from the Commission, the
       Conference adopted the Committee's recommendation.


COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW

       HOME CONFINEMENT PROGRAM MONOGRAPH

               On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial
       Conference endorsed The Federal Home Confinement Programfor Defendants
       and Offenders, Monograph 113, and authorized its distribution to the courts. The
       purpose of the monograph is to provide uniformity in the operation and
       administration of the home confinement program among districts by providing
       national standards for probation and pretrial services officers to use in
       administering the program.




                                              14
                                                                             Mlarch 16, 1999




     PRETRIAL SERVICES INVESTIGATION AND REPORT MONOGRAPH

             On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial
     Conference endorsed The PretrialServices Investigation and Report, Monograph
      112, and authorized its distribution to the courts. The monograph establishes
     standards and provides information for officers who perform pretrial services
     functions. It is intended to complement the standards established by Pretrial
     Services Supervision, Publication 1 11, and the Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and
     Procedures, Volume XII, Pretrial Services Manual.


     OPERATION DRUG TEST

             In June 1996, the Executive Committee agreed to the judiciary's
     participation in Operation Drug TEST (Testing, Effective Sanctions, and
     Treatment), the Attorney General's program of increased pretrial drug testing of
    criminal defendants, so long as participation by individual districts was voluntary
    and the Department of Justice paid the cost of the program (JCUS-SEP 96, p. 46).
    In September 1996, the Administrative Office and the Department of Justice
    signed a memorandum of understanding to implement the program. The MOU
    has since been extended through September 30, 1999. The Department of Justice
    has requested that the program, operating in 53 sites across 24 federal districts, be
    expanded to approximately 10 additional districts. On the Committee's
    recommendation, the Judicial Conference agreed to endorse the expansion of
    Operation Drug TEST to approximately 10 additional courts, authorize the
    Administrative Office to modify the existing MOU accordingly, and delegate
    authority to the Committee chair to invite courts to participate and to select the
    additional courts.


COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES

    DISCLOSURE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT PAYMENTS

           The judiciary's fiscal year 1998 appropriations act, Public Law No. 105-
    119, amended 18 U.S.C. § 3006A(d)(4) to require that amounts paid to attorneys
    appointed under the Criminal Justice Act (CJA) be made publicly available and


                                             15
Judicial Conference of the United States


         set forth rules for doing so. The new law is not inconsistent with other policies or
         provisions of law requiring disclosure, but imposes specific direction as to when
         and how much information should be released. This amendment applies to cases
         filed on or after January 25, 1998, and has a two-year "sunset" provision. On
         recommendation of the Committee on Defender Services, the Conference
         approved a conforming amendment to paragraph 5.O1 B of the Guidelines for the
        Administration of the Criminal Justice Act and Related Statutes, Volume V11,
         Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and Procedure, to implement the new law. The
        revised guidelines set forth the procedures for disclosing payment information.
        They authorize courts to use the current versions of the vouchers submitted by
        CJA panel attorneys as the sole means to release payment information and provide
        that documentation submitted by CJA panel attorneys in support of their claims
        for payment, plus other attachments to the voucher forms, are not covered by the
        law and need not be released at any time.


        DEFENDER ORGANIZATION FUNDING REQUESTS

                Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR
        89, pp. 16-17), the Committee on Defender Services approved budgets and grant
        requests for federal defender organizations in the amount of $218,078,500 for
        fiscal year 1999.


COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION

        YEAR 2000 LEGISLATION

                Several bills have been introduced in the 10 6 "hCongress that are intended
       to address a potential flood of state and federal court litigation related to year
       2000 (Y2K) issues. Although they would not create a new federal cause of action,
       the bills would, among other things, provide original jurisdiction over Y2K class
       actions based on minimal diversity of citizenship with no minimum amount in
       controversy required. Coupled with provisions permitting removal of such
       actions to federal court by a single defendant or a single member of the plaintiff
       class, these provisions have the potential for shifting virtually all Y2K class
       actions from state to federal court.



                                                16
                                                                              March 16, 1999


            The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction noted that federalization of
    Y2K class actions would deprive the judicial system of the contributions that state
    courts would otherwise make in resolving such litigation and holds the potential
    for heavily burdening the federal courts and causing substantial costs and delays
    for the litigants. While minimal diversity may be appropriate to facilitate the
    resolution of certain mass tort-type cases (see, e.g., JCUS MAR-88, pp. 21-23),
    the proposed expansion of federal jurisdiction over Y2K class actions in the
    manner provided in the pending bills is inconsistent with the objective of
    preserving the federal courts as tribunals of limited jurisdiction. The
    Federal-State Jurisdiction Committee therefore recommended, and the Judicial
    Conference after discussion agreed, that the Conference should oppose the
    provisions expanding federal court jurisdiction over Y2K class actions in bills
    (S. 96, S. 461, and H.R. 775) under consideration by the 10 6 th Congress.



COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    JUDGES' RECUSAL OBLIGATIONS

           At its September 1998 session (JCUS-SFP 98, pp. 60-61), the Judicial
    Conference determined to refer for review by the Committees on Codes of
    Conduct and Financial Disclosure the following recommendation:

            That the Judicial Conference encourage all courts to maintain in
            the clerk's office, to be available to the litigants upon written
            request, a list for each judge of the companies in which the judge,
            individually or as a fiduciary, or the judge's spouse, or a minor
            child residing in the household, has a financial interest requiring
            recusal.

    In recommending against such disclosure, the Committee on Financial Disclosure
    noted that section 455 of title 28 imposes a personal obligation on each judge to
    decide whether to recuse himself or herself from a case and that this responsibility
    cannot be shifted to staff or litigants. The Committee also expressed concern
    about security risks related to the release of individual financial information
    without statutory safeguards such as those found in section 105 of the Ethics in
    Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. app. 4 § 105). The Committee recommended
    that, in lieu of encouraging all courts to maintain in the clerk's office a recusal list
    for each judge that would be available to litigants upon written request, the

                                               17
JudicialConference of the United States


         Judicial Conference continue to support the efforts of the Committees on Codes of
         Conduct and Financial Disclosure to educate and inform judges of their
        responsibilities under 28 U.S.C. § 455, the Code of Conduct for United States
        Judges, and the financial disclosure provisions of the Ethics in Government Act of
         1978. Afler discussion, the Judicial Conference adopted the Committee's
        recommendation. See also supra "Committee Activities" (Committee on Codes
        of Conduct), pp. 11I- 12.


        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                 The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of December 31
        1998, the Committee had received 3,206 financial disclosure reports and
        certifications for the calendar year 1997, including 1,231 reports and certifications
       from Supreme Court Justices, Article III judges, and judicial officers of special
       courts; 342 from bankruptcy judges; 505 from magistrate judges; and 1,128 from
       judicial employees.


COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

               The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the
       period from July 1, 1998 to December 31, 1998, a total of 96 intercircuit
       assignments, undertaken by 61 Article III judges, were processed and
      recommended by the Committee and approved by the Chief Justice. In addition,
      the Committee aided courts requesting assistance in identifying judges willing to
      take assignments.


COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS

      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported that it will
      make available to the public its strategic plan, which defines the judiciary's
      unique and limited role in international judicial relations. The plan will serve to


                                                18
                                                                            March 16, 1999


     inform organizations and contractors involved in international rule of law and
    judicial reform initiatives of the standards used by the Committee to determine
    whether to become involved in such initiatives. The Committee also reported on
    developments in a number of ongoing or contemplated rule of law programs
    throughout the world.


COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

    JUDICIAL COMPENSATION

             The adequacy of judicial compensation continues to be a major concern.
    See, e.g, JCUS-MAR 97, p. 26. Judges and other high-level government officials
    have received only one cost-of-living increase in six years, and there is currently
    no functioning mechanism to review the adequacy of the salaries of these
    officials. Moreover, the President's salary, which has remained unchanged for 30
    years, has effectively capped the salaries of top officials and caused pay
    compression to set in. Believing that the judiciary should encourage and support
    the efforts of congressional leaders to effect meaningful salary relief for officials
    in all three branches of government, and that this cannot be achieved without a
    substantial raise in the President's salary, the Committee on the Judicial Branch
    recommended that the Judicial Conference resolve to seek vigorously a pay
    adjustment for federal judges, members of Congress, and top officials in the
    executive branch for 2000 and that it seek to ease pay compression for officials in
    all three branches of government by supporting an increase in the presidential
    salary. The Conference approved the Committee's recommendation.


    TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES JUSTICES AND JUDGES

            After a comprehensive review of the Travel Regulations for United States
    Justices and Judges, the Committee on the Judicial Branch recormmended
    extensive revisions to streamline the regulations and make them easier to use, to
    eliminate inconsistencies, to delete language concerning issues that rarely arise,
    and to continue the judiciary's commitment to prudent fiscal policies. The
    Conference approved the revised regulations, which are both substantively and
    structurally different from the existing regulations. The regulations will be
    published in the Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and Procedures.


                                             19
Judicial Conference of the United States


                   The Conference also discussed legislative proposals to require ajudge to
          report annually to his or her chief judge on travel undertaken for reasons not
          directly related to any case assigned to the judge. In March 1998, the Judicial
         Conference had strongly opposed a legislative proposal to require bankruptcy
         judges to obtain pre-and post-travel approval of non-case related professional
         (non-personal) travel. At the same time, the Conference had also opposed a
         Judicial Branch Committee proposal to amend the travel regulations to require all
        judges to report non-case related official travel to the appropriate chiefjudge
         (JCUS-MAR 98, pp. 18-19). Despite the Conference's position, members of the
         10 5t1h Congress continued to pursue legislation requiring the reporting of non-case
         related official travel of judges.' At this session, the Judicial Conference revisited
         its position on amending the travel regulations and voted to direct the Committee
        on the Judicial Branch to prepare a proposed amendment to the travel regulations
        that would substantially incorporate, for the purpose of reporting all non-case
        related professional travel undertaken by ajudge of the United States, the travel
        reporting requirements for members of the United States Senate. Such
        requirements will specifically include the reporting of the purpose for which the
        non-case related travel is undertaken and the source and amount of all
        reimbursement received by a judge for any such travel not paid for with
        appropriated funds, subject to the reporting exceptions contained in the Ethics in
        Government Act of 1978.


       RELOCATION REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES JUSTICES AND
       JUDGES

                For several years, an interim policy on relocation reimbursement for
       judges has been in effect, which sharply limits the payment of relocation
        expenses. In an effort to give each judicial circuit and court of national
       jurisdiction the discretion to authorize and fix a transferred or newly appointed
       judge's relocation allowance (to the greatest extent permitted), to clarify the
       nature and scope of each potential allowance, and to make the regulations easier
       to use, the Committee on the Judicial Branch drafted and recommended adoption
       of new Relocation Regulations for United States Justices and Judges. The


       " in response to one proposal, S. 2516, the Executive Committee determined that
       the judiciary should seek to have the reporting requirement deleted from the bill,
       or, if unsuccessful, oppose the bill in its entirety (see supra "Miscellaneous
       Actions," p. 7).

                                                 20
                                                                         March 16, 1999


    Judicial Conference approved the revised regulations, which will be published in
    Volume III of the Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and Procedures.


COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES

    ARTICLE III JUDGESHIP NEEDS

            Additional Judgzeships. On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial
    Resources, which reviewed requests and justifications for additional judgeships in
    the courts of appeals and the district courts utilizing criteria and standards
    previously approved by the Judicial Conference (see JCUS-SEP 96, pp. 60-61;
    JCUS-MAR 97, pp. 26-27), the Conference approved transmittal to Congress of a
    request for an additional seven permanent and four temporary judgeships in the
    courts of appeals, and for 33 permanent and 25 temporary district judgeships, and
    the conversion of 10 existing temporary judgeships to permanent in the district
    courts. This request is in lieu of previous Conference recommendations.
    Judgeships were recommended at the following locations ("P" denotes permanent;
    "T" denotes temporary):

           Courts of Appeals
           First Circuit                        Ip
           Second Circuit                       2P
           Sixth Circuit                        2P, IT
           Ninth Circuit                        2P, 3T

           District Courts
           Northern District of New York        IT, Convert IT to P
           Eastern District of New York         3P
           Western District of New York         IT
           District of Maryland                 IP
           Western District of North Carolina   IP, 11
           District of South Carolina           IP
           Eastern District of Virginia         2P, Convert IT to P
           Northern District of Texas           'P
           Eastern District of Texas            IT
           Southern District of Texas           2P
           Western District of Texas            2P
           Eastern District of Kentucky         IT

                                           21
Judicial Conference of the United States


                Northern District of Ohio               Convert IT to P
                 Southern District of Ohio               IT
                Eastern District of Tennessee            IT
                Central District of Illinois            Convert 1T to P
                Southern District of Illinois           Convert IT to P
                Southern District of Indiana             IT
                Eastern District of Arkansas             IT
                District of Minnesota                   IT
                Eastern District of Missouri            Convert IT to P
                Western District of Missouri            IT
                District of Nebraska                    Convert IT to P
                District of Arizona                     3P, 3T
                Northern District of California         IT
                Eastern District of California          IP, IT, Convert IT to P
                Southern District of California        3P, IT
                District of Hawaii                      IT, Convert 11 to P
                District of Nevada                     2P, IT
                District of Oregon                      IT
                Western District of Washington         IT
                District of Colorado                    iP, IT
                District of Kansas                     Convert IT to P
                District of New Mexico                 iP, IT
                Northern District of Alabama           IP, IT
                Middle District of Alabama             IP
                Southern District of Alabama           IT
                Middle District of Florida             5P
                Southern District of Florida           2P

               Courts with Low-Weighted Caseloads. In March 1996, the Judicial
        Conference approved a recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee to
       include in biennial district judgeship surveys a review of courts where it may be
       appropriate to recommend eliminating judgeships or leaving a vacant judgeship
       unfilled (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 24). A process for such a review in the district courts
       was approved by the Conference in March 1997 (JCUS-MAR 97, p. 27), and a
       similar mechanism was approved for the courts of appeals in March 1998 (JCUS-
       MAR 98, p. 19). The 1999 biennial survey of judgeship needs included these new
       processes. Based on the findings of this survey, and after opportunity for
       additional input from affected courts and judicial councils, the Committee
       recommended that the Judicial Conference advise the President and the Senate
       that any single existing or future vacancy not be filled in the following courts:

                                                  22
                                                                         Mfarch 16, 1999



District of Delaware; District Court of the District of Columbia; District of
Wyoming; and Southern District of West Virginia. The Judicial Conference
approved the Conmmittee's recommendation regarding the District of Delaware,
the District of Wyoming, and the Southern District of West Virginia by
acclamation. After discussion and consideration of the objections raised by the
District Court of the District of Columbia, it approved the recommendation of the
Committee with regard to that court as well.


JUDICIAL EMERGENCIES

         In March 1988, the Judicial Conference defined all vacancies in Article III
judgeship positions as 'judicial emergencies" (JCUS-MAR 88, p. 3 1). In
practice, the term 'judicial emergency" has come to be defined as all vacancies of
more than 18 months. With the current Judicial Conference policy to identify'
courts with low-weighted caseloads and potentially recommend that vacancies in
those courts not be filled (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 24), a situation now exists where a
vacancy could be designated as an emergency at the same time the Judicial
Conference recommends to Congress that it not be filled. On recommendation of
the Committee on Judicial Resources, the Judicial Conference revised the
definition of a 'judicial emergency" vacancy as follows:

a.     Any vacancy in a district court where weighted filings are in excess
       of 600 per judgeship, or any vacancy in existence more than 18
       months where weighted filings are between 430 and 600 per
       judgeship; and

b.     Any vacancy in a court of appeals where adjusted filings per panel
       are in excess of 700, or any vacancy in existence more than 18
       months where adjusted filings are between 500 and 700 per panel.


SECRETARIES To FEDERAL JUDGES

         Official Titles. In order to give judges the option of selecting appropriate
titles for their secretaries, the Judicial Conference, slightly modifying a
recommendation of its Judicial Resources Committee, voted to allow judges
officially to title their primary secretaries whatever they deem appropriate.



                                          23
JudicialConference of the United States


                 Secretaries to Former Chief Circuit Judges. In September 1998, the
         Judicial Conference approved a change to the Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP)
         qualification standards to allow a secretary to a chief circuit judge to be promoted
         from JSP- IIto JSP- 12 after one year as a secretary to a circuit judge. In addition,
        to protect the secretaries from significant salary reductions once the chief circuit
        judge stepped down, the Conference provided that the promotion to JSP-12 of the
        chief circuit judge's secretary be considered temporary for only two years, and
        that after the two-year period, the promotion to JSP- 12 be made permanent
        (JCUS-SEP 98, p. 80), making the secretary eligible for "saved grade/saved pay"
        when the chief circuit judge stepped down. At this session, the Judicial
        Conference agreed to apply the 1998 policy change regarding the promotion to
        JSP-12 to certain individual former chief circuit judges' secretaries who had been
        promoted to the JSP-12 level and had held that grade for at least two years before
        their chief circuit judge stepped down.


        DEATH PENALTY LAW CLERKS

                  Death penalty law clerk programs in the Ninth and Tenth Circuits provide
       funding for law clerks with expertise in capital cases. In June 1998, the
       Committee on Court Administration and Case Management voted unanimously to
       strongly endorse permanent funding of a death penalty law clerk program on a
       national basis in both district and appellate courts and conveyed its vote to the
       Committee on Judicial Resources for consideration. On recommendation of the
       Judicial Resources Committee, modified at the Conference session to clearly limit
       the program to the district courts, the Judicial Conference agreed to provide
       funding for a death penalty law clerk program on a national basis in the district
       courts at the rate of one law clerk for each 15 capital habeas corpus cases in a
       district, if requested by the circuit judicial council.


       COURT REPORTER COMPENSATION

               A recent study conducted at the request of the Committee on Judicial
       Resources and completed in November 1998, concluded that the salaries of court
       reporters are competitive in both the public and private sectors and that the federal
      judiciary is not experiencing difficulty in recruiting and retaining court reporters.
      Nonetheless, in order to provide another means to recognize court reporters'
      service to the judiciary and another measure of parity with other court employees,


                                                24
                                                                        March 16 1999


the Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Committee that the
employee recognition program (see Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and Procedures,
Volume IC, Ch. 10, Subch. 1451.2) be modified to extend longevity bonus awards
to court reporters who have 20 years of federal service.


TRANSCRIPT RATES

         Current rules allow court reporters who have realtime certification to sell
realtime unedited transcripts for $ 1.00 per page, with no credit towards the
purchase of a certified transcript, nor with a requirement that a certified transcript
be purchased (JCUS-SEP 97, p. 77). To address court reporter concerns about the
unprofitability of the $1.00 per page rate and about circulating unedited transcripts
that are not backed up by certified transcripts, the Judicial Resources Committee
recommended that the transcript fee rates for realtime unedited transcripts be
modified to:

a.     Establish the maximum page rate authorized for the provision of realtime
       services, including the production and distribution of realtime unedited
       transcripts, at $2.50 per page. A litigant who orders realtime services will
       be required to purchase an original certified transcript of the same pages of
       realtime unedited transcript at the regular rates (ordinary, expedited, daily,
       or hourly); and

b.     Establish the maximum page rate for copies of realtime unedited
       transcripts at $1.00 per page. A litigant who orders a copy of a realtime
       unedited transcript will be required to purchase a certified copy of the
       same pages of realtime unedited copies at the regular copy rate (ordinary,
       expedited, daily, or hourly).

The Judicial Conference approved the Committee's recommendation.'




 'In the event that implementation of the new transcript rate appears to have a
substantial impact on the Defender Services budget, the matter may be revisited.

                                          25
JudicialConference of the United States




        COURTROOM SUPPORT FOR DISTRICT JUDGES

                 In March 1998, the Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the
         Committee on Judicial Resources to provide courtroom deputy clerk staffing
         credit and associated funding based on judicial vacancies when an active district
        judge leaves the court without taking senior status (JCUS-MAR 98, p. 2 1). The
        Judicial Resources Committee subsequently determined that it made practical
        sense to maintain consistent support for court reporter positions as well. On
        recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference authorized the
        Administrative Office, when the court requests, to provide court reporter staffing
        credit and associated funding based on judicial vacancies when an active district
        judge leaves the court without taking senior status. The additional credit may be
        withdrawn if other vacant judgeships are filled before the specific vacancy for
        which the court reporter credit was given.


        LAW CLERKS FOR MAGISTRATE JUDGES

                In September 1991, the Judicial Conference authorized circuit and district
       judges to hire an additional law clerk in lieu of a secretary, or vice versa (JCUS-
        SEP 91, p. 66). In March 1993, the Judicial Conference agreed to allow such an
        option for bankruptcy and magistrate judges as well, but for magistrate judges
        conditioned it on the consent of the chief judge of the district court (JCUS-MAR
        93, p. 16). Since magistrate judges make all other staffing decisions concerning
       their personal staffs without the consent of the chief judge, the Committee on
       Judicial Resources, with the concurrence of the Committee on the Administration
        of the Magistrate Judges System, recommended, and the Judicial Conference
       agreed, that the Conference should modify the 1993 policy to allow a magistrate
       judge to hire an additional law clerk in lieu of a secretary, or vice versa, without
       the need to obtain the consent of the chief judge of the district court.


       BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATORS

                The bankruptcy administrator program was established in the six judicial
       districts in North Carolina and Alabama under section 302(d)(3)(L) of the
       Bankruptcy Judges, United States Trustees, and Family Farmer Bankruptcy Act of



                                                26
                                                                       March 16, 1999


 1986 (Public Law No. 99-554). The responsibilities of the bankruptcy
administrators have grown considerably (e.g, they now appear in court, they have
case closing responsibilities formerly handled by bankruptcy clerks, and they
oversee the process for the collection and disbursement of more estate assets). On
recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, the Judicial Conference
approved increases in the salary caps of the bankruptcy administrators to JSP- 17
forthe bankruptcy administrator position in the Northern District of Alabama and
to JSP- 16 for the positions in the other five bankruptcy administrator districts,
effective immediately.


RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION BONUSES

         The Judicial Resources Committee considered the concerns of many court
unit executives that they are experiencing difficulty in attracting and retaining key
employees in automation positions and that the lack of appropriate compensation
tools for automation positions is beginning to distort the Court Personnel System
classification system. The Committee noted that recruitment and retention
bonuses, authorized in the executive branch since 1990 to attract and retain
highly-skilled employees, might serve as effective compensation enhancements
for high-caliber employees performing automation furnctions. On
recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to authorize
recruitment and retention bonuses for key employees in automation positions on a
two-year pilot basis, funded from a court unit's existing financial resources, and to
require court units to supply data to the Administrative Office on bonus use so
that the effectiveness of the program can be evaluated. The Conference also
agreed to encourage court units to adopt criteria for recruitment and retention
bonuses that apply to court units within the same district or to court units at the
circuit level within the same circuit, as applicable.


ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION STAFFING

        In order to address the need for alternative dispute resolution (ADR)
staffing resources in the district courts, the Judicial Conference at its March 1998
session approved a "basic" staffing factor of 2.17 hours for each case that
participates in an ADR program for most district courts and a "robust" staffing
factor of approximately 4/5 of a work unit plus a factor of 4.38 hours per case to
be applied only to six specific courts with extensive ADR programs (JCUS-MAR


                                         27
JudicialConference of the UnitedStates


        98, pp. 20-2 1). Three additional courts asked the Judicial Resources Committee
        to apply the "robust," rather than "basic," staffing factor to them. Based on the
       number of cases participating in the ADR programs in these districts and the
       number of hours to process those cases for the twelve-month reporting period
       ending June 1998, the Conmmittee concluded that no change was warranted for
       one of these courts. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
       Conference authorized the application of the "robust" staffing factor to the
       Western District of Michigan and the District of Rhode Island for clerk's office
       positions performing duties related to alternative dispute resolution.


       TELECOMMUTING POLICY

               The Judicial Conference agreed, on recommendation of the Judicial
       Resources Committee, to approve a telecommuting policy for the courts. The
       policy, which will be published in the Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and
       Procedures,includes a requirement that if a court, chambers or court unit desires
       to allow its employees to telecommute, it must have a written policy that contains
       certain minimal provisions. The national policy allows for local flexibility in
       designing telecommuting programs.


       JUDICIARY BENEFITS INITIATIVE

              On recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, the Judicial
       Conference approved the following judiciary benefits philosophy statement:

              A goal of the judiciary is to be a model employer so it may attract
              and retain well-qualified employees. The judiciary's employee
              benefits program is an important tool in attracting and retaining
              these employees. Therefore, the judiciary's benefits program will
              be one that is responsive to the reasonable needs of employees, is
              competitive in the market place, and is fiscally responsible.




                                              28
                                                                            March 16, 1999


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

    SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT REGULATIONS

            Section 6.02 of the Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United
    States Establishing Standards and Procedures for the Appointment and
    Reappointment of United States Magistrate Judges requires a court to determine
    whether it wishes to consider the reappointment of an incumbent magistrate judge
    prior to the expiration of his or her term of office. If the court decides that it
    wishes to consider the reappointment of the incumbent, it is directed to follow
    procedures set forth in chapter 6 of the regulations for the reappointment of
    magistrate judges. If the court decides not to reappoint the incumbent, then it is
    directed to follow procedures set forth in chapters 2, 3, 4, and 5 of the regulations
    for new appointments of magistrate judges.

           Although the intent of the regulations was to prohibit combining these
    procedures, the language of section 6.02 does not clearly prevent a court from
    seeking comments on an incumbent while also seeking new applicants, or prevent
    an incumbent, who has been notified by the court that he or she will not be
    reappointed, from applying for the position once it is advertised. On
    recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate
    Judges System, the Judicial Conference agreed to amend section 6.02 of the
    Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States Establishing
    Standards and Procedures for the Appointment and Reappointment of United
    States Magistrate Judges to prevent the use of this "hybrid" selection procedure
    for magistrate judges and make it clear that a court may not seek comments on an
    incumbent while also seeking new applicants for a magistrate judge position.


    CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

            After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
    recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts,
    and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the
    following changes in positions, salaries, and arrangements for full-time and part-
    time magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact are to be
    effective when appropriated funds are available.


                                             29
Judicial Conference of the United States


           SECOND CIRCUIT

           Eastern District of New York

                1. Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Brooklyn;
                   and

           2.      Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
                   magistrate judge positions in the district.

           FOURTH CIRCUIT

           Eastern District of North Carolina

                  Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                  magistrate judge positions in the district.

       Eastern District of Virginia

       1.         Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Richmond to
                  hill-time status; and

       2.         Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
                  magistrate judge positions in the district.

       FIFTH CIRCUIT

       Western District of Louisiana

                 Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

      Southern District of Texas

      1I         Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Laredo;
                 and

      2.         Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.


                                                 30
                                                                     March 16, 1999


SEVENTn CIRCUIT

Eastern District of Wisconsin

       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Green
       Bay from Level 8 ($3,167 per annum) to Level 6 ($10,557 per annum).

EIGHTH CIRCUIT

District of Minnesota

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
       Minneapolis or St. Paul; and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.

NINTH CIRCUIT

Southern District of California

I.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at San Diego;
       and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

District of Montana

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

TENTH CIRCUIT


Northern District of Oklahoma

        Made no change in the number, location, or arrangements of the magistrate
       judge positions in the district.



                                        31
JudicialConference of the UnitedStates


        ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

        Southern District of Alabama

        1.      Authorized an additional fuall-time magistrate judge position at Mobile;
                and

       2.       Made no change in the number, location, or arrangements of the other
                magistrate judge positions in the district.

       Northern District of Florida

                Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                magistrate judge positions in the district.

       Middle District of Florida

       1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Ocala; and

       2.      Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
               magistrate judge positions in the district.



COMMITTEE To REVIEW CIRCUIT
COUNCIL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS

       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

               The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders
       reported that the 10 5 th Congress adjourned without enactment of any proposal to
       amend the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. § 372(c). A measure
      passed in the House of Representatives in April 1998 would have amended the
      Act to provide that any complaint ofjudicial misconduct or disability filed under
      the Act that was not dismissed at the outset by the chief judge of the circuit in
      which the complained-against judge serves would be transferred to another circuit
      for further complaint proceedings. In April 1997, the Judicial Conference
      approved a resolution expressing opposition to a similar version of this legislation
      (JCUS-SEP 97, pp. 81-82). The Committee will continue to monitor legislative
      developments in this area in the 1 0 6 "hCongress.

                                               32
                                                                          March 16, 1999



COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

            Forfeiture Procedures. A proposed new Criminal Rule 32.2 would
    establish a comprehensive set of forfeiture procedures, consolidating several
    procedural rules (Rules 7, 31, 32, and 38) currently governing the forfeiture of
    assets in a criminal case. Under the proposed amendments, the nexus between the
    property to be forfeited and the offense committed by the defendant would be
    established during the first stage of the proceedings as part of the sentencing. In
    the second stage, procedures governing ancillary proceedings are prescribed to
    determine the claims of any third party asserting an interest in the property. After
    considering public comments, and making revisions in light of those comments,
    the Advisory Committee on Criminal Rules recommnended, and the Standing
    Rules Committee concurred, that the Judicial Conference approve proposed new
    Criminal Rule 32.2 and amendments to Criminal Rules 7, 31, 32, and 38 and
    transmit them after the Conference's September 1999 session to the Supreme
    Court for its consideration with the recommendation that they be adopted by the
    Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law. After failure of a
    motion to recommit the proposed rule to the Committee for further review, the
    Judicial Conference approved the Committee's recommendation.

            Counsel for Witnesses Appearing Before the Grand Jury. H.R.
    Conference Report No. 105-825 at 1071 (1998), which accompanied the
    judiciary's fiscal year 1999 appropriations act (Public Law No. 105-277), directs
    the Judicial Conference to report to the Committees on Appropriations, not later
    than April 15, 1999, its findings on whether Rule 6(d) of the Federal Rules of
    Criminal Procedure should be amended to allow a witness appearing before a
    grand jury to have counsel present. After reviewing extensive historical and
    current information on this issue, the Advisory Committee on Criminal Rules
    prepared a report recommending that no action be taken at this time to amend
    Rule 6(d). The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure endorsed the
    report and recommended its adoption by the Judicial Conference. The Conference
     adopted and agreed to transmit to Congress the report containing findings and a
     recommendation that Rule 6(d) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure not be
     amended at this time to allow a witness appearing before a grand jury to have
     counsel present.




                                             33
Judicial Conference of the United States


COMMITTEE ON SECURITY AND FACILITIES

        AFTER-HOURS COURTHOUSE SECURITY

                Noting that sufficient justification exists to provide any court facility that
        desires with additional resources for some level of after-hours security coverage,
        and that the current process for requesting after-hours security is unduly
        burdensome, the Committee on Security and Facilities recommended that an after-
        hours security presence at locations housing full-time judicial officers be provided
        upon request, as a matter of policy, subject to the availability of finds. The
        Judicial Conference approved the Committee's recommendation with a slight
        modification to clarify that eligible locations would be those where judges and
        employees routinely remain in the building after normal business hours and on
        weekends or in exigent circumstances.


        PUBLIC BUILDINGS REFORM LEGISLATION

                In March 1996, the Judicial Conference determined that it would take no
       position on the Public Buildings Reform Act of 1995, S. 1005 (10 1h Congress), a
                                                                           4
        bill which dealt with the roles of the General Services Administration and the
       judiciary in courthouse construction (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 35). At the same time,
       the Security and Facilities Committee was delegated the authority to work with
       the Director of the Administrative Office and the Executive Committee to see that
       the judiciary's concerns were addressed if further congressional action occurred.
       After the bill passed the Senate without opportunity for input from the judicial
       branch, the Security and Facilities Committee recommended, and by mail ballot
       concluded on July 2, 1996, the Judicial Conference agreed, that the Conference
       should seek certain amendments to the bill (JCUS-SEP 96, p. 45).

               The same bill was introduced in the 1 0 5th Congress (S. 248 1) and could
      be reintroduced in the 10 6Ih Congress. Because the enactment of any such bill
      would clearly affect the judiciary's ability to determine space standards necessary
      for the functioning of a modern-day court, at this session the Judicial Conference
      approved the recommendation of the Committee that, in lieu of the Conference's
      current position on public buildings reform legislation, it oppose those provisions
      of any future legislation that would adversely affect the judiciary.




                                                34
                                                                      March 16, 1999




FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

        After consultation with circuit judicial councils, the Committee on
Security and Facilities proposed a five-year plan of courthouse construction
projects for the fiscal years 2000-2004. The Conference approved the plan, except
that the inclusion of the Savannah, Georgia project was made contingent upon a
decision of the Eleventh Circuit Judicial Council not to withdraw its support for
the project.6


ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE

         The authority and responsibility for a circuit's space management
program, including the authority to approve exceptions to the United States
Courts Design Guide and to identify funding sources for exceptions, lies with the
circuit judicial councils (28 U.S.C. § 462(b)). The Committee on Security and
Facilities explored what advisory role to the councils it might play when councils
consider space policy matters, requests from courts for new space, and requests
from courts to deviate from space standards and planning assumptions approved
by the Conference. The Committee anticipates that an upcoming comprehensive
study of the judiciary's space and facilities program will address these issues. In
the interim, the Judicial Conference approved a Committee recommendation that
the Conference strongly encourage the circuit judicial councils to-

a,     consult with the circuit's representative to the Security and Facilities
       Committee prior to consideration of a request for approval of an exception
       to the space standards or planning assumptions published in the United
       States Courts Design Guide, with this policy to be published in the next
       revision to the Design Guide; and

b.     consider designating the Committee's circuit representative an ex officio
       member of a council's space committee, if one exists.




 6OnMarch 30, 1999, the Eleventh Circuit Judicial Council voted to continue its
support for the Savannah, Georgia project.

                                         35
Judicial Conference of the United States




        PARKING POLICY

                Balancing concerns about the number of parking spaces assigned against
        financial constraints, the Committee on Security and Facilities recommended that
        the judiciary's current parking policy be revised to (a) provide a court moving into
        a new facility the same number of parking spaces as were paid for by the
        Administrative Office prior to the move; (b) state specifically that the chief judge
        or designee will assign all parking spaces according to the priority established by
        the parking policy as spaces become vacant; (c) include the provision of a parking
        space for a judge when visiting a non-resident location; and (d) offer guidance on
        providing spaces for temporarily disabled employees. The Judicial Conference
        approved the Committee's recommendation, and the new policy will be published
        in the Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and Procedures.


RESOLUTION

             The Judicial Conference approved the following resolution honoring Judge
       Rya W. Zobel for her service as Director of the Federal Judicial Center:

                       The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
                with appreciation, admiration and respect the Honorable

                                           RYA W. ZOBEL

                Director of the Federal Judicial Center, 1995-1999.

                        Her rich experience as a United States District Judge for the
                District of Massachusetts and her leadership role as Chair of the
                Judicial Conference Committee on Automation and Technology,
                and her earlier membership on the Committee on the Operation of
                the Jury System as well as the Committee on Judicial
               Improvements, earned Judge Zobel the distinction of being selected
               in 1995 by the Chief Justice and the Board of Directors of the
               Federal Judicial Center as the Center's Director, a position of the
               highest responsibility in the federal courts. Under her leadership
               the Center has maintained the tradition of excellence established by
               her predecessors as reflected in the high quality of the Center's


                                                36
                                                                          March 16, 1999


           educational programs for federal judges and court staff, research
           and planning projects, publications, and seminars for foreign
           judges and legal officers from around the world.

                   The Judicial Conference is pleased to express its gratitude
           to Judge Zobel for her dedication to the administration of the
           federal courts in her service as Director of the Federal Judicial
           Center, and wishes her well as she returns to her career in
           Massachusetts.


FUNDING

            All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
    funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to the
    availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the Conference might
    establish for the use of available resources.




                                                 Presiding




                                            37
 Judicial Conference of the United States



 INDEX

 Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice, 6

 Administrative Office, Committee on the, 7-8

 Administrative Office of the U. S. Courts
       bankruptcy estate administration, memorandum of understanding, 10- 11
       court reporter staffing credit, 26
      courthouse construction, 34
      courthouse construction funding, 11I
      financial management improvement, 11I
      pretrial drug testing, memorandum of understanding, 15
      recruitment and retention bonuses, data collection, 27
      retirement credit for Director, 6
      6 0 'hanniversary, 7-8
      wiretap reporting responsibility, 7

Alternative dispute resolution, staffing, 27-28

Appropriations
     appropriations act, FY 1998, 15
     appropriations act, FY 1999, 11, 33
     budget request, FY 2000, 5, 11
     court security supplemental, 5-6, 11
     courthouse construction funding, 5, 11
     defender organization funding, 16
     direct submission of budget requests, 5

Attorney General of the United States, 15

Automation (see information technology)

Automation and Technology, Committee on, 8-9

Bankruptcy administrators, 26-27

Bankruptcy judges (see judges, bankruptcy)




                                            38
                                                                           March 16, 1999

Bankruptcy Judges, United States Trustees, and Family
Farmer Bankruptcy Act of 1986, 26-27

Bankruptcy noticing guidelines, 13-14

Bankruptcy system (see also judges, bankruptcy)
      bankruptcy administrators' compensation, 26-27
      bankruptcy noticing guidelines, 13-14
      case closing process, 10- 11
      chapter I11 post-confirmation monitoring, 10- 11
      estate administration, memorandum of understanding, 10-11
     judgeships, additional, 9-10
      United States trustees, 10- 11

Bankruptcy System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 9-11, 13-14

"Bar Harbor Resolution" (see Program for Prompt Disposition
of Protracted, Difficult, or Widely Publicized Cases)

Benefits
       Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance, 4-5
       philosophy statement, 28
       retirement credit, 6

Biennial judgeship needs surveys (see judgeships, Article 111; judgeships, bankruptcy)

Bonuses, recruitment and retention, 27

Budget (see appropriations)

Budget, Committee on the, 5-6, 11

Case management
      assignment of complex cases, 12-13




                                           39
 Judicial Conference of the UnitedStates


 Chief judges
         circuit, complaints of misconduct or disability, 32
         circuit, secretaries, 24
         district, assignment of complex cases, 12-13
         district, magistrate judges' staff, 26
        judges' travel, reporting requirements, 20
        parking, 36
        relocation allowances, 6-7

 Circuit judges (see judges, circuit)

 Circuit judicial councils
        courthouse construction five-year plan, 35
        death penalty law clerks, 24
        district court appellate panels, 14
        relocation allowances, 6-7
        space management, 35

Class actions, year 2000 litigation, 16-17

Clerks of court
       bankruptcy, case closing and post-confirmation monitoring, 10-11
       bankruptcy, noticing guidelines, 13
      judges' recusal lists, 12, 17

Code of Conduct for United States Judges, 12, 18

Codes of Conduct, Committee on, 11I- 12, 17-18

Commission on Structural Alternatives for the Federal
Courts of Appeals, 14

Compensation
      bankruptcy administrators, 26-27
      Criminal Justice Act panel attorneys, disclosure, 15-16
     judicial, 19
     longevity bonuses for court reporters, 24-25
     recruitment and retention bonuses, 27
     secretaries to former chief circuit judges, 24


                                             40
                                                                    March 16, 1999


Conduct and disability, judicial
     transfer of complaint, 32

Conduct and Disability Orders, Committee to Review
Circuit Council, 32

Congress (see also legislation, pending)
      compensation of members, 19
      court security supplemental appropriation, 5
      courthouse construction funding, 5, 11
      eliminating or not filling judgeships, 22-23
      federal courts improvement legislation, 6
      Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance, 5
      firearms, federal judges, 6
      judges' travel, reporting requirements, 7, 20
      judgeships, Article 111, 2 1-22
      judgeships, bankruptcy, 9-10
      judiciary budget requests, 5
      members' travel, Senate, 20
      rules of practice and procedure, 33
      wiretap annual report, 7

Court administration
      assignment of complex cases, 12-13
      bankruptcy estate administration, 10-11
      bankruptcy noticing guidelines, 13-14
      court reporting, 8, 25
      courtroom technologies, 8
      district court appellate panels, 14
      Internet access, 8-9
      telecommuting policy, 28
      videoconferencing, 8

Court Administration and Case Management, Committee on, 12-14, 24

Court Personnel System, 27




                                           41
  Judicial Conference of the United States


  Court reporters
        compensation, 24-25
        court reporter staffing credit, 26
        longevity bonus awards, 24-25

  Court reporting
        courtroom technologies, 8
        realtime transcript rates, 25

 Courthouses (see space and facilities)

 Courtrooms
        court reporter staffing credit, 26
       courtroom technologies, 8

 Courts of appeals
        death penalty law clerks, 24
       judgeship needs survey, 22-23
       judgeships, additional, 21
       judicial emergencies, defined, 23

 Criminal Justice Act (CJA) (see also defender services)
       Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act, 16
       panel attorneys' compensation, disclosure, 15-16

Criminal Law, Committee on, 7,14-15

Criminal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Data communications network
      Internet access, 8

Death penalty law clerks, 24

Defender services (see also Criminal Justice Act)
      defender organizations' funding requests, 16
      disclosure of panel attorney payments, 15-16
      federal defender appearances in state court, 7
      transcript rates, impact on budget, 25


                                             42
                                                                           March 16, 1999

Defender Services, Committee on, 7, 15-16

Department of Justice
      Executive Office for United States Trustees, 10- 11
      Operation Drug TEST, 15
      pretrial drug testing, 15
      wiretap reporting responsibility, 7

Design Guide (see United States Courts Design Guide)

Disabled employees
       parking policy, 36

District courts (see also bankruptcy system; magistrate judges system; probation and
pretrial services system)
         alternative dispute resolution staffing, 27-28
         assignment of complex cases, 12-13
         court reporter staffing credit, 26
         court reporting, 8, 25
         courtroom support for judges, 26
         death penalty law clerks, 24
         district court appellate panels, 14
        drug testing, pretrial, 15
        eliminating or not filling judgeships, 22-23
        judgeship needs survey, 21-23
        judgeships, additional, 21-22
        judicial emergencies, defined, 23

District judges (see judges, district)

Drug testing, pretrial, 15

Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 17, 20

Executive branch (see also Department of Justice; General Services Administration,
Office of Management and Budget, Office of Personnel Management, President of the
United States)
       compensation of top officials, 19



                                           43
JudicialConference of the UnitedStates


Executive Committee, 4-7, 11, 15, 20, 34

Executive Office for United States Trustees, 10- 11

Federal courts improvement legislation, 6, 7

Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance, 4-5

Federal Employees' Life Insurance Improvement Act, 4

Federal Judicial Center
      elections to the board, 4
      Judicial Conference Foundation, 6
      retirement credit for Director, 6

Federal public defender organizations (see defender services)

Federal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Federalization of year 2000 class action litigation, 16-17

Federal-State Jurisdiction, Committee on, 16-17

Financial Disclosure, Committee on, 17-18

Financial disclosure reports, 18

Firearms
       authority for judges to carry, 6
       training, 6

Forfeiture procedures in criminal cases, 33

General Services Administration, 34

Grand jury
      counsel for witnesses, 33



                                            44
                                                                      March 16, 1999

Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and Procedures
       advisory opinions of Committee on Codes of Conduct, 12
       court reporter longevity bonuses, 25
       Criminal Justice Act guidelines, 16
       parking policy, 36
       pretrial services investigations and reports, 15
       relocation regulations, 21
       telecommuting policy, 28
       travel regulations for justices and judges, 19

Guidelines
       bankruptcy noticing, 13-14
       Criminal Justice Act, 16

Home confinement program, 7, 14

Information technology
      courtroom technologies, 8
      Internet access, 8-9
      Long Range Planfor Information Technology in the FederalJudiciary, 8
      recruitment and retention bonuses for key automation employees, 27
      year 2000 (Y2K) legislation, 16-17

Intercircuit assignments
       Article III judges, 18

Intercircuit Assignments, Committee on, 18

International Judicial Relations, Committee on, 18-19

Internet access, 8-9




                                        45
Judicial Conference of the UnitedStates


Judges, Article III (see also chief judges; judgeships, Article 111)
       compensation, 19
       Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance, 4-5
       financial disclosure reports, 18
       firearms, 6
       intercircuit assignments, 18
       recusal obligations, 11-12, 17-18
       relocation regulations, 20-2 1
       travel, 7, 19-20
       travel regulations, 19-20

Judges, bankruptcy (see also chief judges; judgeships, bankruptcy)
       financial disclosure reports, 18
       firearms, 6
       recusal obligations, 11-12, 17-18
       relocation regulations, 20-2 1
       travel, 7, 19-20
       travel regulations, 19-20

Judges, circuit (see chief judges; judges, Article 111)

Judges, district (see also chief judges; judges, Article III)
      courtroom support, 26

Judges, magistrate
       changes in positions, 29-32
       financial disclosure reports, 18
       firearms, 6
       law clerks in lieu of secretaries, 26
       recusal obligations, 11I- 12, 17-18
       relocation regulations, 20-21
       selection and appointment regulations, 29
      travel regulations, 19-20




                                              46
                                                                    March 16, 1999

Judgeships, Article III
      additional, 2 1-22
      definition of judicial emergency, 23
      eliminating or not filling, 22-23
      needs survey, 21-23
      vacancies, 22-23

Judgeships, bankruptcy
      additional, 9-10
      needs survey, 9

Judicial branch
       benefits philosophy statement, 28
       judicial compensation, 19

Judicial Branch, Committee on the, 19-21

Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, 32

Judicial Conference of the United States
       Foundation, 6
       funding of actions, 37
       long range planning process, 7

Judicial councils of the circuits (see circuit judicial councils)

Judicial emergencies, 23

Judicial Resources, Committee on, 21-28

Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP), 24

Law clerks
      death penalty, 24
      for magistrate judges, 26




                                             47
JudicialConference of the United States


Legislation, pending ( 1 0 5th and 1 0 6 h Congress)
       Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1998 (S. 2516, 1 0 5t1h Cong.), 7, 20
       Judicial Conduct and Disability Act amendment, 32
       Public Buildings Reform Act (S. 2481, 105' Cong.), 34
       year 2000 litigation (S. 96, S. 461, and H.R. 775, 106' Cong.), 16-17

Legislative branch (see Congress)

Long Range Planfor Information Technology in the FederalJudiciary,8

Long range planning, 7, 11

Magistrate judges (see judges, magistrate)

Magistrate judges system (see also judges, magistrate)
      changes in positions, 29-32
      law clerks in lieu of secretaries, 26
      selection and appointment regulations, 29

Magistrate Judges System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 26, 29-32

Matsch, Richard, 4

Office of Management and Budget, 5

Office of Personnel Management, 4-5

Operation Drug TEST, 15

Panel attorneys (see CJA; defender services)

Parker, Robert M., 4

Parking policy, 36




                                             48
                                                                        March 16, 1999

Personnel, court (see also staffing resources)
      benefits initiative, 28
      bonuses for automation personnel, 27
      court reporter compensation, 24-25
      Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance, 4-5
      financial disclosure reports, 18
      judges' secretaries, titles, 23
      relocation allowance, 6-7
      secretaries to former chief circuit judges, 24
      telecommuting policy, 28

Pilot programs
       recruitment and retention bonuses, 27

President of the United States,
       eliminating or not filling judgeships, 22-23
      judges' life insurance, 4-5
      judiciary's budget submissions, 5
       salary, 19

Pretrial services system (see probation and pretrial services system)

Probation and pretrial services system
       home confinement program monograph, 14
       pretrial services investigation and report monograph, 15

Program for Prompt Disposition of Protracted, Difficult,
or Widely Publicized Cases, 12-13

Public buildings reform legislation, 34

Realtime court reporting
       courtroom technologies, 8
       unedited transcript rates, 25

Recusal obligations of judges, 11I- 12, 17-18




                                            49
JudicialConference of the United States


Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States Establishing Standards
and Procedures for the Appointment and Reappointment of United States
Magistrate Judges, 29

Relocation allowances, 6-7, 20-21

Relocation Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, 20-2 1

Resolution
       Zobel, Rya W., 36-37

Retirement
       credit for certain prior service, 6

Rule of law programs, 19

Rules of practice and procedure
       counsel in grand jury proceedings, 33
       criminal rules, 33
       forfeiture procedures, 33

Rules of Practice and Procedure, Committee on, 33

Salaries (see compensation)

Security
       after-hours courthouse security, 34
       emergency supplemental appropriations, 5, 11
       firearms, federal judges authorized to carry, 6
       release of financial disclosure reports, 17

Security and Facilities, Committee on, 5-6, 11, 34-36

Selya, Bruce, 4




                                             50
                                                                         March 16, 1999

Space and facilities
       after-hours courthouse security, 34
       courthouse construction, 34-3 5
       courthouse construction funding, 5, 11
       courtroom technologies, 8
       five-year courthouse project plan, 35
       public buildings reform legislation, 34
       space management, role of the Committee on Security and Facilities, 35
       United States CourtsDesign Guide, 35

Staffing resources
        alternative dispute resolution program, 27-28
        court reporter staffing credit, 26
        courtroom support for district judges, 26

Supporting personnel (see personnel, court)

Technology (see information technology)

Telecommuting policy, 28

The FederalHome Confinement Program for Defendants and Offenders,
Monograph 113, 14

The PretrialServices Investigation and Report, Monograph 112, 15

Transcript rates, realtime, 25

Travel, judges', 7, 19-20

Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, 19-20

United States Courts Design Guide, 35

United States trustees
       bankruptcy estate administration, memorandum of understanding, 10- 11

Video evidence presentation systems, 8



                                            51
Judicial Conference of the United States


Videoconferencing, 8

Wiretap annual report, 7

Year 2000 (Y2K) legislation, 16-17

Yohn, William HI., Jr., 4

Zobel, Rya W., 36-37




                                           52
