REPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


September 19, 2000

              The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
     D.C., on September 19, 2000, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United
     States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and the following
     members of the Conference were present:

            First Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Juan R. Torruella
                    Judge Joseph A. DiClerico, Jr.,
                            District of New Hampshire

            Second Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Ralph K. Winter, Jr.
                    Judge Charles P. Sifton,
                            Eastern District of New York

            Third Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Edward R. Becker
                    Chief Judge Donald E. Ziegler,
                            Western District of Pennsylvania

            Fourth Circuit:

                    Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III
                    Chief Judge Charles H. Haden II,
                            Southern District of West Virginia
Judicial Conference of the United States

                 Fifth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King
                          Judge Hayden W. Head, Jr.,
                                  Southern District of Texas

                 Sixth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Boyce F. Martin, Jr.
                          Judge Thomas A. Wiseman, Jr.,
                                  Middle District of Tennessee

                 Seventh Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Joel M. Flaum
                          Judge Robert L. Miller, Jr.,
                                  Northern District of Indiana

                 Eighth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Roger L. Wollman
                          Judge James M. Rosenbaum,
                                  District of Minnesota

                 Ninth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Procter Hug, Jr.
                          Judge Judith N. Keep,
                                  Southern District of California

                 Tenth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Stephanie K. Seymour
                          Judge Ralph G. Thompson,
                                  Western District of Oklahoma




                                                     32
                                                                       September 19, 2000

                Eleventh Circuit:

                Chief Judge R. Lanier Anderson III
                Chief Judge Charles R. Butler, Jr.,
                        Southern District of Alabama

        District of Columbia Circuit:

                Chief Judge Harry T. Edwards
                Judge Thomas F. Hogan, 1
                        District of Columbia

        Federal Circuit:

                Chief Judge Haldane Robert Mayer

        Court of International Trade:

                Chief Judge Gregory W. Carman

        Circuit Judges W. Eugene Davis, Dennis G. Jacobs, Paul V. Niemeyer, Jane R.
Roth, Anthony J. Scirica, and Walter K. Stapleton, and District Judges Carol Bagley
Amon, Lourdes G. Baird, Robin J. Cauthron, John G. Heyburn II,
D. Brock Hornby, Michael J. Melloy, Edwin L. Nelson, and Harvey E. Schlesinger
attended the Conference session. Jan Horbaly of the Federal Circuit represented the
Circuit Executives.

        Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence A. Lee, Jr.,
Associate Director for Management and Operations; William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate
Director and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel, Assistant Director, Judicial
Conference Executive Secretariat; Michael W. Blommer, Assistant Director,
Legislative Affairs; David Sellers, Assistant Director, Public Affairs; and Wendy Jennis,
Deputy Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat. Judge Fern
Smith and Russell Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial
Center, also attended the session of the Conference, as did


1
 Designated by the Chief Justice.


                                           33
Judicial Conference of the United States

        Sally Rider, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice, and judicial fellows
        L. Karl Branting, Jill E. Evans, Barry T. Ryan, and Jennifer A. Segal.

                 Senators Orrin Hatch and Patrick Leahy and Representative Howard Coble
        spoke on matters pending in Congress of interest to the Conference. Attorney General
        Janet Reno and Solicitor General Seth P. Waxman addressed the
        Conference on matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of
        Justice.



REPORTS
                Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the courts
        and on matters relating to the Administrative Office. Judge Smith spoke to the
        Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs, and Judge Diana E. Murphy,
        Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission, reported on Sentencing
        Commission activities.


EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

        RESOLUTIONS

                The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
        Committee to adopt the following resolution in recognition of the substantial
        contributions made by Judicial Conference committee chairs who complete their
        terms of service in 2000:

                        The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
                 appreciation, respect, and admiration the following judicial officers:

                               HONORABLE RALPH K. WINTER, JR.
                                      Executive Committee

                                  HONORABLE EDWARD B. DAVIS
                                  Committee on the Administrative Office




                                                    34
                                                                      September 19, 2000

               HONORABLE EDWARD W. NOTTINGHAM
                  Committee on Automation and Technology

                   HONORABLE D. BROCK HORNBY
             Committee on Court Administration and Case Management

                     HONORABLE STANLEY S. HARRIS
                      Committee on Intercircuit Assignments

                 HONORABLE ADRIAN G. DUPLANTIER
             Advisory Committee on the Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure

                    HONORABLE PAUL V. NIEMEYER
                Advisory Committee on the Rules of Civil Procedure

                Appointed as committee chairs by Chief Justice William H.
       Rehnquist, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role in the
       administration of the federal court system. These judges served with
       distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference committees while, at
       the same time, continuing to perform their duties as judges in their own
       courts. They have set a standard of skilled leadership and earned our
       deep respect and sincere gratitude for their innumerable contributions.
       We acknowledge with appreciation their commitment and dedicated
       service to the Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.

                                    * * * * *

        The Executive Committee approved on behalf of the Conference the
following resolution in appreciation of Chief Judge Ralph K. Winter’s outstanding
service as Chair of the Executive Committee:

              The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
       appreciation, respect, and admiration the Honorable

                             RALPH K. WINTER, JR.

       Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
       Circuit and member of this Conference, for his outstanding, insightful
       and politically astute leadership as Chair of the


                                          35
Judicial Conference of the United States

                 Executive Committee since October 1, 1999. At the time Judge Winter joined
                 the Conference in July 1997, and the Executive Committee in April 1998, he
                 had already provided years of invaluable service to the Conference as Chair of
                 the Advisory Committee on the Federal Rules of Evidence and as a member of
                 the Civil Rules Committee. Although his tenure as Chair of the Executive
                 Committee was relatively brief, he led that Committee through many complex
                 issues with clarity of purpose and with distinction. One of the most significant
                 issues he addressed concerned a request from a news organization for the
                 release of financial disclosure reports of Article III and magistrate judges so that
                 the requester could post those reports on the Internet. In coordination with the
                 Committees on Financial Disclosure, Codes of Conduct, and Security and
                 Facilities, Judge Winter ably led the Executive Committee in seeking a course
                 for the Conference that would accommodate public access to information
                 regarding the financial interests of judicial officers, in full compliance with the
                 Ethics in Government Act of 1978, and at the same time ensure the safety and
                 security of judges and their families.

                         Judge Winter’s confident leadership, firm resolve, and spirit of
                 openness fostered understanding and mutual respect for differing
                 opinions, enabling a satisfactory conclusion to this difficult issue and
                 numerous others before the Executive Committee in the past year. All
                 the while, Judge Winter displayed his characteristic warmth and keen
                 sense of humor.

                          As he leaves the chair of the Executive Committee and
                 membership on the Judicial Conference, we offer to Judge Winter our
                 heartfelt gratitude and express our sincere hope that our paths will
                 continue to cross frequently. With best wishes to him and his wife,
                 Katherine, for happy, healthy years ahead.

                                               * * * * *

                 On behalf of the Conference, the Executive Committee approved the following
        resolution in appreciation of the support and service of the Honorable Henry J. Hyde:




                                                     36
                                                             September 19, 2000

       The Judicial Conference of the United States, with great
appreciation, respect, and admiration, recognizes the Honorable

                         HENRY J. HYDE

Member of Congress representing the Sixth District of Illinois since
1974, Chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary of the United
States House of Representatives since 1994, and long-time friend
and steadfast supporter of the federal judiciary.

        Henry Hyde began his career in service to his country in
1942, when immediately after graduation from St. George High
School in Evanston, Illinois, he enlisted in the United States Navy.
A combat veteran of World War II, he retired as a Commander in
the United States Naval Reserve in 1968. Graduating from
Georgetown University in 1947, Mr. Hyde went on to attend
Loyola University School of Law, receiving a juris doctor degree in
1949. After nearly two decades as a trial attorney in Chicago, and
eight years as a state representative in the Illinois General Assembly,
including service as its Majority Leader, the citizens of the Sixth
District elected him as their representative in the United States
Congress.

       After twenty-six years of distinguished service in the House
of Representatives, Henry Hyde has become a respected leader of
national prominence. He is widely admired for his honesty and
sound judgment, unfailingly displayed with humor and civility.

        The Judicial Conference particularly recognizes Chairman
Hyde’s long and distinguished service on the Committee on the
Judiciary. His record of accomplishments there bears witness to an
unwavering respect for the Constitution of the United States and an
abiding belief in the rule of law. Henry Hyde is sensitive to the
position of the Judicial Conference on legislation affecting the
judiciary, and on such matters, has been a source of wise counsel to
judges. He recognizes the independence of the judicial branch, has
vigorously supported improvements in the administration of justice,
and has worked to provide appropriate and equitable compensation
and benefits to judges and their staffs.




                                  37
Judicial Conference of the United States

                        The legacy of the Honorable Henry Hyde, as a Member of
                 Congress, as a leader of the Committee on the Judiciary, and as a
                 valued friend to the federal judiciary will endure for many years to
                 come.


        JUDICIAL EDUCATION REFORM ACT

                 The Judicial Education Reform Act of 2000 (S. 2990, 106th Congress)
        would prohibit federal judges from accepting “anything of value in connection with
        a seminar” and give the Board of the Federal Judicial Center the power to authorize
        government funding for judges to attend only those “seminars that are conducted in
        a manner so as to maintain the public’s confidence in an unbiased and fair-minded
        judiciary.” The bill was introduced after a private organization issued a report
        critical of judges attending private educational seminars at the expense of the
        seminar sponsors. Although recognizing the need for maintaining public trust and
        confidence in the federal courts, the Executive Committee raised serious concerns
        about the proposed legislation, noting that it represented an inappropriate response
        to a highly complex issue. After discussion, the Judicial Conference approved an
        Executive Committee recommendation that the Conference communicate to
        Congress the following views on the proposed legislation:

        a.       S. 2990 (106th Congress) is overly broad; would have unintended
                 consequences, such as prohibiting federal judges from reimbursed
                 attendance at bar association meetings and law school seminars; raises
                 potential constitutional issues, such as imposing an undue burden on
                 speech; and would mandate an inappropriate censorship role for the Federal
                 Judicial Center;

        b.       The proposed legislation raises a number of serious issues that deserve due
                 consideration, including congressional hearings and an opportunity for the
                 Judicial Conference to study and comment upon those issues and to take
                 such action as is necessary and appropriate; and

        c.       In its present form the Judicial Conference of the United States opposes
                 S. 2990.




                                                  38
                                                                    September 19, 2000



FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORTS

        At its March 2000 session, the Judicial Conference approved an Executive
Committee recommendation concerning the public release of financial disclosure
reports and the processing of requests for the redaction of certain information from
those reports for security reasons (JCUS-MAR 00, pp. 4-6). This action
necessitated revision of the Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United
States on Access to Financial Disclosure Reports Filed by Judges and Judiciary
Employees Under the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as Amended. The
Executive Committee, in consultation with the chairs of the Committees on Codes
of Conduct and Security and Facilities and the full Financial Disclosure Committee,
drafted modifications to the regulations — including an appellate mechanism
involving a redaction review panel — and, after opportunity for review by the
Department of Justice, transmitted them to the Judicial Conference for ratification.
The regulations were unanimously approved by the Conference (with one member
not voting) by mail ballot concluded on May 3, 2000. Shortly thereafter, the
Executive Committee approved further amendments permitting redaction of
information that would reveal either the location of a residence of the filer or of a
family member or the place of employment of the filer. See also infra, “Financial
Disclosure Reports,” p. 53.


FEDERAL EMPLOYEES’ GROUP LIFE INSURANCE

       Prior to October 1998, Article III judges had the exclusive right to carry full
Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) coverage into retirement, and
many relied on this coverage in developing their financial and estate plans. In
1998, after Congress enacted legislation expanding this benefit to all federal
employees, the Office of Personnel Management proposed rate changes in FEGLI
premiums that would significantly increase for judges the cost of maintaining the
insurance and, for older judges, make continued coverage prohibitively expensive.
To minimize the impact of this regulatory change, Congress enacted legislation,
Public Law No. 106-113 (the “FEGLI fix”), authorizing the Director of the
Administrative Office, on direction of the Judicial Conference, to pay the cost of
any increase. Advised that Congress was considering extending the FEGLI fix to
United States bankruptcy judges and United States magistrate judges, the Executive
Committee, on behalf of the Conference, took the following position:




                                         39
Judicial Conference of the United States

                 The “FEGLI fix” was enacted in order to allow Article III judges to
                 continue to carry full Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance
                 coverage into retirement. The “fix” was critical in maintaining the status
                 quo for Article III judges, who were in peril of losing a long-time
                 benefit—applicable only to life-tenured federal judges—upon which
                 many of them had come to rely as the keystone of their financial and
                 estate planning.

                 The Executive Committee of the Judicial Conference recently became
                 aware of proposed legislation that would include United States
                 bankruptcy judges and United States magistrate judges within the
                 “FEGLI fix.” Whether the “fix” should be extended beyond the Article
                 III judiciary is an extremely complex issue that could have potential
                 impact beyond the Third Branch. Accordingly, the Executive
                 Committee respectfully requests that Congress defer action on this issue
                 until a complete review and discussion can be had within the judicial
                 branch, and also between the judiciary and the other two branches.

        See also infra, “Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance,” pp. 54-55.


        MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                 The Executive Committee—

        C        Approved proposed interim financial plans for fiscal year 2001 for the
                 Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Fees of Jurors and
                 Commissioners, and Court Security accounts, based on the Senate
                 allowance for direct appropriations, as well as fee collections and carryover
                 balances, and authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to make
                 technical and other adjustments as deemed necessary.

        C        Approved a recommendation of the Defender Services Committee for
                 prospective implementation of a $75 per hour rate for in-court and out-of-
                 court work performed by Criminal Justice Act (CJA) panel attorneys
                 representing Terry Lynn Nichols, who was convicted in connection with
                 the 1995 bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma
                 City, in his 28 U.S.C. § 2255 motion.




                                                    40
                                                                September 19, 2000

C   Agreed to continue to promote the September 1999 Conference position on
    a bankruptcy appellate structure (JCUS-SEP 99, p. 44-45) and to a fallback
    position that could be used in negotiations with Congress, if necessary.

C   On recommendation of the Defender Services Committee, approved
    modifications to the Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal
    Justice Act and Related Statutes to implement the provisions of the Civil
    Asset Forfeiture Reform Act of 2000, Public Law No. 106-185, relating to
    the appointment and compensation of counsel on behalf of certain claimants
    in judicial civil forfeiture proceedings.

C   Approved a recommendation of the Court Administration and Case
    Management Committee that legislation be sought to designate Springfield
    as a place of holding court in the District of Oregon.

C   Agreed to release non-resident court facilities in Auburn in the Northern
    District of New York, and Jasper in the Northern District of Alabama, as
    recommended by the Committee on Security and Facilities.

C   Approved, with a minor modification, a revised jurisdictional statement
    proposed by the Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy
    System.

C   Declined to delegate to the Court Administration and Case Management
    Committee the authority to approve the final draft of the “Manual for
    Litigation Management and Cost and Delay Reduction,” which the Civil
    Justice Reform Act of 1990 requires the Conference to prepare.

C   Approved, on recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources and
    in anticipation of the approval of new court staffing formulae by the Judicial
    Conference in September 2000, a staffing formula transition plan to provide
    as smooth a transition as possible. See also infra, “Staffing Formulae,” pp.
    56-57.

C   On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
    Magistrate Judges System, granted a waiver of the selection and
    appointment regulations to allow the service of two non-resident members
    on the merit selection panel considering applicants for a vacant magistrate
    judge position at Newark, New Jersey.




                                  41
Judicial Conference of the United States


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it reviewed the
        status of several major initiatives and studies undertaken by the Administrative
        Office. It noted particularly the successful implementation of supplemental benefits
        programs. The Committee received a comprehensive briefing on the
        Administrative Office’s information technology program, including updates on the
        planned introduction of new case management/electronic case files (CM/ECF)
        systems, the use of courtroom technologies, and information technology training
        and support activities.


COMMITTEE ON AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGY

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                The Committee on Automation and Technology reported that it discussed
        the progress of an ongoing study of law books and libraries being conducted under
        the auspices of its Subcommittee on Library Programs. The Committee also
        reaffirmed its strong support of the new CM/ECF systems under development as
        the preferred case management applications for the judiciary; discussed preliminary
        directions of an independent, comprehensive study of the judiciary’s national
        information technology program that it is jointly sponsoring with the Director of the
        Administrative Office; and received updates on a number of information
        technology issues.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
B ANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

        BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                In accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(3), the Judicial Conference conducts a
        comprehensive review of all judicial districts every other year to assess the continuing
        need for all authorized bankruptcy judgeships. By December 31 of each even-
        numbered year, the Conference reports its recommendations to



                                                   42
                                                                       September 19, 2000

Congress for the elimination of any authorized bankruptcy judgeship position that can
be eliminated when a vacancy exists by reason of resignation, retirement, removal, or
death. As a result of the 2000 continuing need survey, the Committee on the
Administration of the Bankruptcy System recommended, and the Judicial Conference
agreed, that the Conference take the following actions:

a.     Recommend to Congress that no bankruptcy judgeship be statutorily
       eliminated;

b.     Advise the First, Eighth, and Ninth Circuit Judicial Councils to consider
       not filling vacancies in the District of Maine, the District of South
       Dakota and the Northern District of Iowa, and the District of Alaska
       (respectively) that currently exist or may occur by reason of resignation,
       retirement, removal, or death, until there is a demonstrated need to do
       so; and

c.     Advise the Eighth Circuit Judicial Council that, if a vacancy were to
       occur in the State of Iowa by reason of resignation, retirement,
       removal, or death of a bankruptcy judge, it should authorize the three
       remaining Iowa bankruptcy judges to administer cases within both Iowa
       districts.


REAPPOINTMENT OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

        In March 1997, the Judicial Conference adopted a new chapter 5 to the
Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States for the Selection,
Appointment, and Reappointment of United States Bankruptcy Judges to provide
for reappointment of incumbent bankruptcy judges without subjecting them to the
full application and merit screening process required of candidates for new
positions (JCUS-MAR 97, p. 13). Recently, concerns have been raised by some
courts of appeals about the difficulty of complying with the time frames set forth in
chapter 5 when questions arise about an incumbent’s suitability. To address these
concerns, the Conference, on recommendation of the Committee, adopted
amendments to chapter 5 that provide courts of appeals with the flexibility to extend
the time frames in appropriate cases and to require as much as 12 months advance
written notice of a judge’s willingness to accept reappointment. In addition, the
Conference approved a recommendation of the Committee to add




                                          43
Judicial Conference of the United States

        language to chapter 5 that clarifies the long-standing view that the selection,
        appointment, and reappointment regulations set forth procedural guidelines that
        create no vested rights for any incumbent or prospective bankruptcy judge.


        PLACE OF HOLDING BANKRUPTCY COURT

                At the request of the Western District of North Carolina and the Fourth
        Circuit Judicial Council, and in accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(1), the
        Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System recommended, and the
        Judicial Conference approved, the designation of Wilkesboro as an additional place
        of holding bankruptcy court and the deletion of Statesville as a place of holding
        bankruptcy court in the Western District of North Carolina.


        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                 The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System reported
        that it recommended for further study a number of policy options regarding privacy
        and public access to electronic case files for possible adoption by the judiciary. In
        addition, the Committee determined that the recommendations of the National
        Bankruptcy Review Commission concerning the treatment of mass future claims in
        bankruptcy merit further study. With regard to space and facilities issues, the
        Committee agreed to communicate to the Committee on Security and Facilities that
        it concurred in the view that bankruptcy courtrooms do not normally require a jury
        box unless there is a demonstrated need and that it opposed mandatory courtroom
        sharing for judges.


COMMITTEE ON THE B UDGET

        FISCAL YEAR 2002 BUDGET REQUEST

                 In recognition of congressional budget constraints, the Budget Committee
        recommended a fiscal year 2002 budget request that is lower than the funding
        levels proposed by the program committees. The Judicial Conference approved the
        request, with one modification, subject to amendments necessary as a result of new
        legislation, actions of the Judicial Conference, or other reasons the Director of the
        Administrative Office considers necessary and appropriate. The request



                                                 44
                                                                       September 19, 2000

    was modified by adoption of a recommendation of the Defender Services
    Committee to increase the CJA panel attorney hourly rate to $113 for both in-court
    and out-of-court time. (The Budget Committee had recommended $85 for in-court
    time and $75 for out-of-court time.) The $113 rate reflects implementation of a $75
    per hour rate approved by the Conference but not yet implemented in most districts,
    adjusted by cost-of-living salary increases granted between 1988 and 2002 to most
    federal employees. See infra, “Panel Attorney Compensation,” p. 50.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on the Budget reported that the new staffing formulae for
    court support offices (see infra, “Staffing Formulae,” pp. 56-57) were incorporated
    into the fiscal year 2002 budget request and commended the efforts taken in
    completing the formula revisions. The Committee was briefed on the updating of
    existing court allotment formulae in non-personnel areas and the development of a
    methodology for allotting funds in spending categories for which no formulae
    previously existed. The Committee also reported that long-range planning and
    budgeting will be a focal point at its January 2001 meeting.


COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

    CODE OF CONDUCT FOR UNITED STATES JUDGES

            To clarify that the Code of Conduct for United States Judges applies to
    senior judges, whether or not they are actually performing judicial duties, the
    Judicial Conference adopted a recommendation of the Committee on Codes of
    Conduct to amend the first sentence of the Compliance Section of the Code as
    follows (new language in bold; language to be omitted is struck through):

           Anyone who is an officer of the federal judicial system performing
           authorized to perform judicial functions is a judge for the purpose
           of this Code.




                                            45
Judicial Conference of the United States



        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report to the
        Conference in March 2000, the Committee received 31 new written inquiries and
        issued 31 written advisory responses with an average response time of 18 days.
        The Chairman received and responded to 29 telephonic inquiries, and individual
        Committee members responded to 147 inquiries from their colleagues.


COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
AND CASE MANAGEMENT

        ACCESS TO LOCAL RULES

                On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and Case
        Management, the Judicial Conference agreed to adopt a proposal, also endorsed by
        the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, that the Conference encourage
        courts to post their local rules on Internet websites, which would then be linked to
        the judiciary’s external website. The intent of this proposal is to create a single
        source for all local rules that is easily accessible by the bench, bar, and public.
        Specifically, the Conference agreed to—

        a.       Encourage appellate, district and bankruptcy courts to (1) post their local
                 rules on their own websites by July 1, 2001, and if they do not have a
                 website, to develop one, if only to post their local rules; (2) establish a local
                 rules icon or post their local rules in a prominent location on their websites,
                 to which a user could have ready access; and (3) include a uniform
                 statement indicating that the rules are current as of a date certain; and

        b.       Direct the Administrative Office to link local court websites to its federal
                 rules Internet web page.


        JURY SELECTION AND SERVICE ACT

                Under the Jury Selection and Service Act, 28 U.S.C. § 1864 et seq., for the
        traditional two-step jury selection process, individuals who fail to respond to the




                                                    46
                                                                    September 19, 2000

qualification questionnaire “may” be called into court to fill out the form
(28 U.S.C. § 1864(a)), while those who fail to respond to a summons “shall” be
ordered into court to show cause for their non-compliance (28 U.S.C. § 1866(g)).
A number of courts utilize a one-step jury selection process, a procedure whereby
qualification questionnaires and summonses are sent out simultaneously. In order
to limit challenges to the one-step process based on a court’s failure to take action
against persons who do not respond to the one-step juror qualification
questionnaires and summonses, the Court Administration and Case Management
Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference endorse an amendment to
§ 1866(g) to change the statute’s language from “shall” to “may.” This is in
keeping with § 1878(b), which provides that “no challenge ... shall lie solely on the
basis that a jury was selected in accordance with a one-step summoning and
qualification procedure,” and would allow courts to determine locally the extent of
enforcement for failure to respond to either the one- or two-step summons. The
Judicial Conference approved the recommendation to seek amendment of the first
sentence of 28 U.S.C. § 1866(g) as follows (new language in bold; language to be
omitted is struck through):

       (g) Any person summoned for jury service who fails to appear as
       directed may shall be ordered by the district court to appear
       forthwith and show cause for his failure to comply with the
       summons.


JUROR QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAIRE

        Two substantial changes were made in the 2000 census regarding the
collection of data on race. First, the major racial groups were expanded from five
to six by separating “Asian and Pacific Islander” into “Asian” and “Native
Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders,” and second, individuals who consider
themselves multi-racial could be so categorized. To continue the practice of having
the juror qualification questionnaire track the census forms, the Court
Administration and Case Management Committee recommended that the question
on the questionnaire dealing with race be amended to reflect the census changes.
In addition, the Committee recommended that separate questions regarding race
and ethnicity be merged. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
recommendation to revise the juror qualification questionnaire to read as set forth
below. The Conference also directed the Administrative Office to make
implementing changes to its Form JS-12 “Report on the Operation of the Jury




                                         47
Judicial Conference of the United States

        Selection Plan,” which collects juror representation statistics, and if necessary, to
        the juror qualification form.

                 10. RACE/ETHNICITY

                 a. To assist in ensuring that all people are represented on juries, please
                 fill in completely one or more circles which describe you. (See Note on
                 reverse side.) Nothing disclosed will affect your selection for jury
                 service.

                 • -Black     • -Asian       • -Native American Indian
                 • -White     • -Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander
                 • -Other (specify) ________________________

                 b. Are you Hispanic? • -yes              • -no


        ELECTRONIC PUBLIC ACCESS FEES

                In September 1998, the Judicial Conference amended the miscellaneous fee
        schedules for the appellate, district and bankruptcy courts, the United States Court
        of Federal Claims, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (promulgated
        pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1913, 1914, 1926, 1930, and 1932) to establish a fee of
        $.07 per Internet page for information obtained through the public access to court
        electronic records (PACER) system (JCUS-SEP 98,
        pp. 64-65). In order to clarify that this fee was intended to apply to all case-related
        documents obtained electronically via the Internet, and not merely docket sheets,
        the Conference adopted a recommendation of the Committee to amend the
        language of subpart (a) of the addendum to those miscellaneous fee schedules as
        follows (new language in bold; language to be omitted is struck through):

                 (a) The Judicial Conference has prescribed a fee for access to court
                 data obtained electronically from the public dockets records of
                 individual cases records in the court, including filed documents
                 and the docket sheet, except as provided below.




                                                     48
                                                                        September 19, 2000



    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management reported
    that it discussed a number of issues, including the development of a proposed
    privacy policy for the judiciary by its Subcommittee on Privacy and Electronic
    Access to Case Files; the prisoner civil rights pretrial proceedings
    videoconferencing program and the growth of videoconferencing in the district
    courts; the litigation management manual that is being drafted pursuant to a
    requirement of the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990; and the Committee’s role in
    long-range planning and budgeting. In addition, the Committee discussed the
    implementation of Recommendation 73 of the judiciary’s Long Range Plan for the
    Federal Courts, which calls for the federal courts to expand their data-collection
    and information-gathering capacity to obtain better data for judicial administration.


COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW

    FINE AND RESTITUTION MONOGRAPH

            On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial
    Conference approved for publication and distribution to the courts a new
    monograph, Criminal Monetary Penalties: A Guide to the Probation Officer’s Role
    (Monograph 114), including revised forms for judgments in criminal cases (AO
    245B-245I). The monograph consolidates existing policies; provides uniform
    procedures on the imposition, collection, and enforcement of criminal monetary
    penalties; and establishes a closer nexus between already-established policy in this
    area and any Federal Judicial Center financial investigation training.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

           The Committee on Criminal Law reported on the status of a comprehensive
    assessment of the probation and pretrial services system and the establishment of an
    ad hoc working group to review probation and pretrial services supervision. The
    Committee also reported that it has been working with the Committee on Court
    Administration and Case Management to consider whether access to public records
    through the Internet requires changes in existing




                                             49
Judicial Conference of the United States

        judiciary policies. The Committee is reviewing policy alternatives for electronic
        access to criminal files, along with the associated implications.


COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES

        PANEL ATTORNEY COMPENSATION

                In 1986, Congress amended paragraph (1) of subsection (d) of the Criminal
        Justice Act, 18 U.S.C. § 3006A, to authorize the Judicial Conference to increase
        the $60 in-court/$40 out-of-court panel attorney hourly rates to $75 where justified
        for individual circuits and districts, and beginning in 1990, to make annual
        adjustments to the maximum hourly rates based on cost-of-living pay increases
        granted by statute to most federal employees. The Judicial Conference has
        approved the $75 rate for all judicial districts. However, due to budgetary and
        congressional constraints, the panel attorney rates authorized by statute and
        Conference action have yet to be fully implemented.2 Noting the eroding effect of
        inflation on currently established rates, the discrepancy between panel attorney
        rates and rates paid by the government to counsel for other purposes, and the
        already-established policy of the Conference that panel attorneys should receive
        compensation that covers “reasonable overhead and a fair hourly fee,” the
        Defender Services Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference seek for
        fiscal year 2002 an authorized hourly rate for panel attorneys of $113 for both in-
        and out-of-court time to reflect implementation of the $75 hourly rate and employee
        salary cost-of-living adjustments from 1988 to 2002. This recommendation
        conflicted with the fiscal year 2002 budget request endorsed by the Budget
        Committee. See supra, “Fiscal Year 2002 Budget Request,” pp. 44-45. The
        Conference approved the Defender Services Committee’s recommendation and
        modified the fiscal year 2002 budget request accordingly.




        2
         In 1990, the Judicial Conference implemented higher rates up to $75 in all or
        part of 16 districts. Subsequently, through fiscal year 2000, Congress has
        authorized two $5 increases, resulting in hourly rates of $70 in-court/$50 out-
        of-court in most districts.

                                                 50
                                                                     September 19, 2000



STUDENT LOAN FORGIVENESS

        A student loan forgiveness program of the Department of Education, the
Federal Perkins Loan Program, has been interpreted to include prosecuting
attorneys, but not federal defenders. In order to maintain the parity established in
the Criminal Justice Act with respect to the compensation of prosecuting attorneys
and federal defenders, the Judicial Conference approved a Defender Services
Committee recommendation that it support legislation that would provide federal
defenders with the same eligibility for student loan forgiveness as is granted to their
counterparts in United States attorney offices.


COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

        Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR
89, pp. 16-17), the Defender Services Committee approved increases totaling
$1,656,000 for the fiscal year 2000 budgets of three federal public defender
organizations.

        The Committee also reported that it approved a strategic plan outline that
defines the mission and goals for the judiciary’s implementation and management
of the CJA, and includes both strategies for accomplishing the program goals and
performance measures to determine the degree to which each strategy meets its
targeted goal. The Committee reviewed a report on federal defender and panel
attorney training events in fiscal year 2000, and approved plans for training in fiscal
year 2001, subject to the availability of funding. The Committee also
recommended and obtained expedited approval by the Executive Committee, on
behalf of the Judicial Conference, of revisions to the CJA Guidelines to reflect the
authorization provided in the Civil Asset Forfeiture Reform Act of 2000, Public
Law No. 106-185, for appointment of counsel, to be paid at CJA rates, for
representation in certain civil forfeiture proceedings. See supra, “Miscellaneous
Actions,” pp. 40-41.




                                      51
Judicial Conference of the United States

COMMITTEE ON F EDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION

        FIFTH AMENDMENT TAKINGS CASES

                 District courts and the United States Court of Federal Claims generally have
        concurrent jurisdiction over Fifth Amendment takings claims. However, equitable
        relief (e.g., injunctive and declaratory relief) in such cases is only available in
        district court pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1346(a)(2) (known as the Little Tucker Act),
        and monetary relief exceeding $10,000 is only available in the Court of Federal
        Claims pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1491 (Tucker Act). As a result, it is sometimes
        necessary for litigants to file actions in both courts in order to obtain equitable and
        monetary relief. For the past several years, some members of Congress have
        sought to address this situation through legislation that would make complete relief
        available in both courts by expanding the jurisdiction and remedial powers of the
        Court of Federal Claims, as well as the jurisdiction of district courts over monetary
        claims exceeding $10,000. The Judicial Conference is opposed to such
        jurisdictional expansion in the Court of Federal Claims (JCUS-MAR 92, pp. 22-23;
        JCUS-SEP 95, pp. 82-83) and has repeatedly informed Congress of its concerns
        with that approach. Given the continuing efforts in Congress to resolve the so-
        called Tucker Act “shuffle,” the Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction
        recommended that the Conference take the position that if Congress determines to
        provide complete relief for the resolution of Fifth Amendment takings claims in one
        judicial forum, then that forum should be an Article III court, and the present
        jurisdictional monetary ceiling of $10,000 for such claims brought under 28 U.S.C.
        § 1346 should be eliminated. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
        recommendation.


        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                 The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that its members had
        substantial concerns with provisions of the Innocence Protection Act of 2000 (S.
        2690 and H.R. 4167, 106th Congress) that would place new responsibilities on the
        Director of the Administrative Office to promulgate regulations specifying the
        elements of an effective system for providing competent legal services to indigents
        in state capital cases and to award grants to provide defense services in state capital
        cases. The Committee determined to pursue further these and other issues raised in
        such bills after consulting with other interested Conference committees. The
        Committee also discussed the Federalization of Crimes Uniform



                                                  52
                                                                         September 19, 2000

    Standards Act of 2000 (H.R. 4544, 106th Congress), the Small Business Liability
    Reform Act of 2000 (H.R. 2366, 106th Congress), and several mass tort and class
    action issues.


COMMITTEE ON F INANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORTS

             In May 2000, the Judicial Conference approved revisions to the Regulations
    of the Judicial Conference of the United States on Access to Financial Disclosure
    Reports Filed by Judges and Judiciary Employees Under the Ethics in Government
    Act of 1978, as Amended, setting forth procedures for the redaction of information
    from financial disclosure reports that is otherwise confidential and could endanger
    the filer or other person if obtained by a member of the public hostile to the filer.
    See supra, “ Financial Disclosure Reports,”
    p. 39. Noting that a filer’s request for redaction may also contain sensitive and
    personal information that could endanger the filer if made public, the Committee on
    Financial Disclosure recommended that the Conference amend the regulations to
    provide that a filer’s request for redaction and its supporting documents, except for
    copies of the financial disclosure report or amendments thereto, are confidential and
    will only be used to determine whether to grant a request for redaction. Such
    documents are not considered to be a part of any report releasable under section
    105(b)(1) of the Act. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of July 15, 2000,
    the Committee had received and reviewed 3,214 financial disclosure reports and
    certifications for the calendar year 1999, including 1,217 reports and certifications
    from Supreme Court Justices, Article III judges, and judicial officers of national
    courts; 335 from bankruptcy judges; 481 from magistrate judges; and 1,181 from
    judicial employees.




                                          53
Judicial Conference of the United States

COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the period
        from January 1, 2000, to June 30, 2000, a total of 101 intercircuit assignments,
        undertaken by 70 Article III judges, were processed and recommended by the
        Committee and approved by the Chief Justice. In addition, the Committee aided
        courts requesting assistance by both identifying and obtaining judges willing to take
        assignments.


COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
        participation in a World Bank conference on legal and judicial reform held in
        Washington, D.C., on June 5-7, 2000, and its involvement in rule-of-law programs
        in or with delegations from Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. The
        Committee also reported on the revision of its strategic plan, and its plans to use a
        web-based questionnaire to update its database of federal judges, court
        administrators, and federal defenders interested in assisting foreign judiciaries and
        organizations involved in international judicial reform and the rule of law. The
        database is used to make referrals to organizations requesting judicial assistance in
        the United States and abroad.


COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL B RANCH

        FEDERAL EMPLOYEES’ GROUP LIFE INSURANCE

                 In November 1999, legislation was enacted to mitigate the effect of a
        proposal by the Office of Personnel Management to double the Federal Employees’
        Group Life Insurance premiums for judges aged 65 and above (Public Law No.
        106-113). This legislation authorized the Director of the Administrative Office, as
        directed by the Judicial Conference, to pay the cost of any such increase on behalf
        of Article III judges. To implement this new law and ensure that Article III judges
        retain the full value of their FEGLI benefits, which many judges have


                                                 54
                                                                      September 19, 2000

come to rely upon as the centerpiece of their estate plans, the Committee on the
Judicial Branch recommended that the Judicial Conference authorize payment on
behalf of (a) all active Article III judges aged 65 and above, (b) senior judges
retired under 28 U.S.C. § 371(b) or 372(a), and (c) judges retired under 28 U.S.C.
§ 371(a) who are enrolled in the program, of the full amount of any increases in the
cost (and any expenses associated with such payments) of the judges’ insurance
imposed after April 24, 1999. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
recommendation. See also supra, “Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance,” pp.
39-40.


TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES
JUSTICES AND JUDGES

         Filing of Travel Vouchers. On recommendation of the Judicial Branch
Committee, the Judicial Conference approved an amendment to the Travel
Regulations for United States Justices and Judges to establish a time limit for
judges’ submission of claims for reimbursement of travel expenses. The revised
regulations require judges to submit claims for reimbursement within 90 days after
the official travel is completed. The Director of the Administrative Office may
make exceptions when necessary to meet special circumstances or in the best
interest of the government.

        Reimbursement for Day-of-Return Expenses. The Travel Regulations for
United States Justices and Judges have sometimes been understood to preclude a
judge from claiming reimbursement for actual expenses on the day of return from
travel. At this session, the Judicial Conference adopted a recommendation of the
Judicial Branch Committee to amend the judges’ travel regulations to provide that
on the day of return to his or her official duty station or residence, a judge may (a)
claim a per diem allowance for meals and other expenses of $46, or (b) itemize
meals and other subsistence expenses up to a daily maximum of $100.

        Non-Case Related Travel. At its September 1999 session, the Judicial
Conference adopted regulations for the reporting of non-case related travel that
instructed judges to file their reports using a draft form set out in an appendix
(JCUS-SEP 99, p. 65). That form has now been replaced by an electronic system,
the “Judges’ Non-Case Related Travel Reporting System,” which not only allows
judges to report electronically such travel, but also allows a chief judge to have
access to a court’s reports in chambers. On recommendation of the Committee,



                                          55
Judicial Conference of the United States

        the Conference agreed to amend the travel regulations to (a) refer to the automated
        Judges’ Non-Case Related Travel Reporting System in lieu of the draft reporting
        form; and (b) authorize the Director, without further Conference approval, to make
        conforming changes to the judges’ travel regulations should the title or website
        address of the Judges’ Non-Case Related Travel Reporting System change.


        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                 The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported on the status of its efforts to
        secure cost-of-living and locality pay adjustments for judges, and the difficulties the
        judiciary is facing, particularly with regard to retention and recruitment, as a result of
        woefully inadequate judicial salaries and the lure of private sector compensation. The
        Committee also reported on, among other matters, the judiciary’s benefits initiatives and
        the status of two cases raising issues concerning taxation of judicial compensation.



COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES

        STAFFING FORMULAE

                 The judiciary’s requests for funding of staff positions for court support
        offices are based on staffing formulae which had not been updated since the early
        1990s. At the direction of the Judicial Resources Committee, comprehensive work
        measurement studies were undertaken in court support offices, and proposed
        staffing formulae were developed which, nationwide, reflect all the work
        performed in these offices. The new formulae, while not expected to reflect all
        possible situations due to varying managerial styles, operating environments, and
        priorities, will provide adequate support for the workload in each office in the
        aggregate, and decentralized budgeting allows local managers to exercise the
        authority to assign and prioritize work requirements as necessary. On
        recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved proposed
        staffing formulae for the appellate court units and circuit offices, the district clerks’
        offices, the district court pro se law clerk offices, the probation and pretrial services
        offices, and the bankruptcy clerks’ offices, for implementation in fiscal year 2001.
        The Conference also approved a one-year continued use of high-year




                                                   56
                                                                      September 19, 2000

prisoner petition reporting as an interim device for the district clerks’ offices. See
also supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” pp. 40-41.
.

COURT INTERPRETER POSITIONS

         Additional court interpreter positions are needed in certain districts to handle
a dramatic increase in criminal case filings associated with an initiative of the
Department of Justice in the southwest border districts. Based on established
criteria, the Committee on Judicial Resources recommended, and the Judicial
Conference approved, two additional court interpreter positions for the Southern
District of Texas and five additional court interpreter positions (two of which are
presently temporary positions) for the Western District of Texas for fiscal year
2002. The latter five positions will be funded in fiscal year 2001, if possible.


COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS CLERK’S OFFICE

          In order to address recent increases in both case filings and the number of
sitting judges, the United States Court of Federal Claims requested seven new
positions for its clerk’s office. On the Committee’s recommendation, the
Conference approved the new positions as part of the fiscal year 2002 budget
request, with the proviso that if the number of senior/recalled judges should
decrease, the court’s allocation will be adjusted accordingly. The Conference also
agreed to support accelerated funding for these seven positions as an unfunded
requirement in fiscal year 2001.


LEAVE POLICY FOR ORGAN DONORS

        In order to enhance the federal government’s leadership role in encouraging
organ donations, section 6327 of title 5, United States Code, was recently amended
to increase from seven to 30 days each calendar year the amount of paid leave
executive branch employees may receive when serving as organ donors. This
statute does not currently apply to the judiciary. The Committee recommended that
the judiciary conform its leave policy to that of the executive branch and adopt the
same increase to 30 days of paid leave for judiciary employees to serve as organ
donors. The Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.




                                           57
Judicial Conference of the United States

        _______________________
        ARTICLE III JUDGESHIP NEEDS

                 It has been a decade since an omnibus judgeship bill has been enacted by
        Congress.3 However, toward the end of the 106th Congress, it appeared that
        Congress might be willing to entertain such a bill, with the additional judgeships to be
        filled by the next President. Consequently, the Judicial Resources Committee
        determined to accelerate its Biennial Survey of Judgeship Needs, the results of which
        are usually presented to the Judicial Conference in March of odd-numbered years, so
        that up-to-date Conference recommendations could be considered in any judgeship bill.
        On recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee and its Subcommittee on
        Judicial Statistics, the Judicial Conference agreed, by mail ballot concluded on July 27,
        2000, to recommend that Congress establish six permanent and four temporary circuit
        judgeships and 30 permanent and 23 temporary district judgeships, convert seven
        temporary district judgeships to permanent, and extend one temporary district
        judgeship, as follows (“P” denotes permanent; “T” denotes temporary):

                 Courts of Appeals
                 First Circuit                   1T
                 Second Circuit                  2P
                 Sixth Circuit                   2P
                 Ninth Circuit                   2P, 3T

                 District Courts
                 Alabama (Middle)                1P
                 Alabama (Northern)              1P, 1T
                 Alabama (Southern)              1T
                 Arizona                         1P, 4T
                 California (Central)            2T
                 California (Eastern)            2P, Convert 1T to P
                 California (Northern)           1P
                 California (Southern)           5P, 3T
                 Colorado                        1P, 1T
                 Florida (Middle)                1P, 1T
                 Florida (Southern)              2P




        3
          In 1999, Congress did create nine additional judgeships in three judicial
    districts.

                                                    58
                                                                      September 19, 2000

        Hawaii                          Convert 1T to P
        Illinois (Central)              Convert 1T to P
        Illinois (Southern)             Convert 1T to P
        Indiana (Southern)              1T
        Kentucky (Eastern)              1T
        Nebraska                        Convert 1T to P
        Nevada                          1T
        New Mexico                      2P, 1T
        New York (Eastern)              3P
        New York (Northern)             1T, Convert 1T to P
        New York (Western)              1T
        North Carolina (Western)        2P
        Ohio (Northern)                 Extend T
        Oregon                          1T
        South Carolina                  1P
        Texas (Southern)                2P
        Texas (Eastern)                 1T
        Texas (Western)                 3P, 1T
        Virginia (Eastern)              2P, Convert 1T to P
        Washington (Western)            1T


COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

        The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that after considering
various alternatives to the current allocation formula for death penalty law clerks, it
asked the Administrative Office to conduct a work measurement study of the
program and report back within two years. The Committee also requested that the
Administrative Office make technical adjustments to the current court-sizing
formula to ensure that the compensation levels of incumbent court unit executives
are not reduced solely by virtue of implementation of the new staffing formulae.
The Committee endorsed the concept of physical fitness centers in the judiciary
and asked the Administrative Office to develop a fitness center policy. The
Committee also endorsed the concept of ergonomics in the judicial workplace and
encouraged the Committee on Security and Facilities to develop a policy in that
area.




                                      59
Judicial Conference of the United States

COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE MAGISTRATE
JUDGES SYSTEM
        MAGISTRATE JUDGE SURVEY PROCESS

                 In March 1991, the Judicial Conference adopted a methodology for
        reviewing magistrate judge positions which provided for district-wide reviews
        every four years for districts with part-time magistrate judge positions, and every
        five years for districts with only full-time magistrate judge positions (JCUS-MAR
        91, pp. 20-21). The four-year cycle was intended to accelerate the transition to a
        system of primarily full-time magistrate judges. Citing a significant decline in the
        number of part-time magistrate judge positions, the ability of courts to request a
        change in status of part-time magistrate judge positions at any time, and the
        prospect of savings of both time and money, the Committee on the Administration
        of the Magistrate Judges System recommended and the Conference approved a
        change in the methodology for reviewing magistrate judge positions to provide for
        district-wide reviews every five years for all districts.


        SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT REGULATIONS
                Section 4.02 of the Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United
        States Establishing Standards and Procedures for the Appointment and
        Reappointment of United States Magistrate Judges requires a full-field background
        investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of nominees to full-time
        or part-time magistrate judge positions prior to appointment. These regulations
        have not been interpreted to require incumbent part-time magistrate judges who
        have been selected for full-time positions to undergo a second FBI full-field
        investigation prior to their full-time appointment. However, the vast majority of
        part-time magistrate judges also practice law, and much of their work is therefore
        not supervised by the court. In order to ensure that such individuals have not
        engaged in any illegal or improper activity, the Conference adopted a
        recommendation of the Magistrate Judges Committee that Section 4.02 be amended
        to require that all part-time magistrate judge appointees to full-time magistrate judge
        positions, including those who were the subject of a full-field background
        investigation prior to appointment to the part-time position, undergo an FBI full-
        field background investigation prior to full-time appointment.




                                                  60
                                                                    September 19, 2000



CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

        After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts,
and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the
following changes in positions, locations, salaries, and arrangements for full-time
and part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact are to
be effective when appropriated funds are available.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT

District of Columbia

       Made no change in the number or arrangements of the magistrate judge
       positions in the district.

FIRST CIRCUIT

District of Puerto Rico

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at San Juan or
       Ponce to serve both locations; and

2.     Made no change in the number, location, or arrangements of the other
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

SECOND CIRCUIT

District of Connecticut

       Redesignated one of the New Haven magistrate judge positions as Hartford
       or New Haven.

Eastern District of New York

       Redesignated the two Uniondale magistrate judge positions, the Uniondale
       or Hauppauge magistrate judge position, and the Hauppauge or Hempstead
       or Uniondale magistrate judge position as Central Islip.



                                         61
Judicial Conference of the United States

        Southern District of New York

                 Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

        THIRD CIRCUIT

        District of Delaware

                 Made no change in the number of positions, or the location or arrangement of
                 the existing magistrate judge position in the district.

        Western District of Pennsylvania

        1.       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Erie to full-time status; and

        2.       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the other
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

        District of the Virgin Islands

                 Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
                 judge positions in the district.

        FIFTH CIRCUIT

        Western District of Texas

        1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Pecos or Alpine;

        2.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Alpine or Big Bend
                 National Park, effective upon the appointment of a full-time magistrate judge at
                 Pecos or Alpine; and

        3.       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.




                                                    62
                                                                      September 19, 2000

SIXTH CIRCUIT

Southern District of Ohio

        Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
        judge positions in the district.

EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Western District of Arkansas

        Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

NINTH CIRCUIT

District of Arizona

1.      Authorized one additional full-time magistrate judge position at Phoenix;

2.      Authorized two additional full-time magistrate judge positions at Tucson;
        and

3.      Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

Central District of California

1.      Authorized three additional full-time magistrate judge positions at Los Angeles
        and one additional full-time magistrate judge position at Los Angeles or
        Riverside;

2.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Barstow from
        Level 5 ($21,833 per annum) to Level 3 ($43,665 per annum); and

3.      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the other
        magistrate judge positions in the district.




                                           63
Judicial Conference of the United States

        Eastern District of Washington

                 Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
                 judge positions in the district.

        TENTH CIRCUIT

        Western District of Oklahoma

                 Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

        ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

        Northern District of Florida

        1.       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Gainesville
                 from Level 5 ($21,833 per annum) to Level 2 ($54,582 per annum); and

        2.       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the other
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

        Southern District of Georgia

                 Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
                 judge positions in the district.


        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                The Committee reported that it discussed and provided its views on two
        issues concerning security and facilities. First, the Committee opposed a proposal
        by the United States Marshals Service to create dedicated arraignment rooms in
        federal courthouses because the Committee believes that any benefits realized by
        the rooms would come at a cost of judges’ time and efficiency. The Committee
        also voted to recommend that the appropriate Judicial Conference committee
        endorse and recommend to the Conference a policy of providing one courtroom for
        each active full-time magistrate judge because such a policy is essential to the




                                                    64
                                                                      September 19, 2000

    effective functioning of magistrate judges. The Committee communicated these
    positions to the Committees on Security and Facilities and Court Administration
    and Case Management.


COMMITTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT
COUNCIL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders
    reported that it has published, and will distribute to the courts, a pamphlet
    containing the current version of the Illustrative Rules Governing Complaints of
    Judicial Misconduct and Disability and related materials that may be useful to
    judges and court staff in implementing the complaint procedure established by
    28 U.S.C. § 372(c).


COMMITTEE ON RULES OF P RACTICE AND P ROCEDURE

    FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

            The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
    Judicial Conference proposed revisions to Bankruptcy Rules 1007 (Lists,
    Schedules, and Statements; Time Limits), 2002 (Notices to Creditors, Equity
    Security Holders, United States, and United States Trustee), 3016 (Filing of Plan
    and Disclosure Statement in Chapter 9 Municipality and Chapter 11 Reorganization
    Cases), 3017 (Court Consideration of Disclosure Statement in Chapter 9
    Municipality and Chapter 11 Reorganization Cases), 3020 (Deposit; Confirmation
    of Plan in a Chapter 9 Municipality or a Chapter 11 Reorganization Case), 9006
    (Time), 9020 (Contempt Proceedings), and 9022 (Notice of Judgment or Order).
    The proposed amendments were accompanied by Committee Notes explaining
    their purpose and intent. The Conference approved the amendments and
    authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court for its consideration with the
    recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in
    accordance with the law. In addition, the Committee submitted and the Conference
    approved proposed revisions to Official Form 7 (Statement of Financial Affairs).




                                            65
Judicial Conference of the United States



        FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

                The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
        Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Civil Rules 5 (Service and Filing of
        Pleadings and Other Papers), 6 (Time), 65 ( Injunctions), 77 (District Courts and
        Clerks), 81 (Applicability in General), and 82 (Jurisdiction and Venue Unaffected).
        The Committee also submitted a proposal to abrogate the Copyright Rules of
        Practice because they do not conform to current copyright law or to modern
        concepts of due process. Technical changes necessitated by this abrogation are
        proposed to Rules 65 and 81. The proposed Civil Rules revisions were
        accompanied by Committee Notes explaining their purpose and intent. The
        Conference approved the amendments and the abrogation of the Copyright Rules
        and authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court for its consideration with the
        recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in
        accordance with the law.


        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
        approved the recommendations of its advisory committees to publish for public
        comment proposed amendments to the Appellate, Bankruptcy, Civil, and Criminal
        Rules. The proposals include a comprehensive style revision of the Federal Rules
        of Criminal Procedure, which is part of an overall effort to clarify and simplify the
        procedural rules. Among other matters, the Committee considered a report on an
        ongoing study of national rules governing attorney conduct and the status of
        pending legislation directing the Judicial Conference to recommend such rules.


COMMITTEE ON SECURITY AND F ACILITIES

        JURY BOX SIZE

                 Prior to this Conference session, the United States Courts Design Guide
        required that district court jury boxes accommodate 18 jurors. The Judicial
        Conference approved a recommendation of the Committee on Security and
        Facilities that the jury box space standards be amended to accommodate only 12




                                                  66
                                                                        September 19, 2000

    jurors in magistrate judge courtrooms, 16 jurors in district courtrooms, and 18 jurors
    in special proceedings courtrooms or where otherwise required. These changes
    will allow most courtrooms to accommodate two-tier jury boxes and free space in
    the courtroom well for other uses, such as multiple-defendant trials and new
    technologies.


    CYCLICAL MAINTENANCE FOR COURT FACILITIES

            In the past, the General Services Administration (GSA) included the cost of
    cyclical maintenance, such as repainting and recarpeting, in the rent charged for
    agency space in federal buildings. Under new pricing policies, GSA will maintain
    only the public space of federal buildings occupied by the judiciary, and provide for
    building systems, such as heating and plumbing. On recommendation of the
    Committee on Security and Facilities, the Conference endorsed as a matter of
    policy a cyclical maintenance program for court-occupied space, subject to the
    availability of appropriated funds.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Security and Facilities reported that the consulting firm
    of Ernst & Young completed its comprehensive, nationwide study of the judiciary’s
    space and facilities program and submitted its final report and recommendations in
    May 2000. The Committee discussed the process for reviewing the report, as well
    as issues raised in the report and in the President’s fiscal year 2001 budget request
    related to courtroom sharing. The Committee also reported that Scientific
    Applications International Corporation had been awarded a 12-month contract to
    conduct a comprehensive study of the court security program that will focus on the
    physical security of court buildings and the protection of judges.


MAIL B ALLOTS
            The Judicial Conference conducted two mail ballots since its March 2000
    session. In a mail ballot concluded on May 3, 2000, the Conference approved
    amendments to the Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States on
    Access to Financial Disclosure Reports Filed by Judges and Judiciary Employees




                                             67
Judicial Conference of the United States

        under the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as Amended (see supra, “Financial
        Disclosure Reports,” p. 39). In July 2000, the Judicial Conference approved, by mail
        ballot, a Judicial Resources Committee recommendation to amend the Conference’s
        request to Congress for additional Article III judgeships (see supra, “Article III
        Judgeship Needs,” pp. 58-59).



F UNDING
                All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of funds for
        implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to the availability of
        funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might establish for the use of available
        resources.




                                                        Chief Justice of the United States
                                                        Presiding




                                                   68
