REPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


March 14, 2000

             The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
     D.C., on March 14, 2000, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United States
     issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and the following members
     of the Conference were present:

            First Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Juan R. Torruella
                    Judge Joseph A. DiClerico, Jr.,
                            District of New Hampshire

            Second Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Ralph K. Winter, Jr.
                    Chief Judge Charles P. Sifton,
                            Eastern District of New York

            Third Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Edward R. Becker
                    Chief Judge Donald E. Ziegler,
                            Western District of Pennsylvania

            Fourth Circuit:

                    Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III
                    Chief Judge Charles H. Haden II,
                            Southern District of West Virginia

            Fifth Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King
                    Judge Hayden W. Head, Jr.,
Judicial Conference of the United States

                                   Southern District of Texas

                 Sixth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Boyce F. Martin, Jr.
                          Judge Thomas A. Wiseman, Jr.,
                                  Middle District of Tennessee

                 Seventh Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Richard A. Posner
                          Judge Robert L. Miller, Jr.,
                                  Northern District of Indiana

                 Eighth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Roger L. Wollman
                          Judge James M. Rosenbaum,
                                  District of Minnesota

                 Ninth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Procter Hug, Jr.
                          Judge Judith N. Keep,
                                  Southern District of California

                 Tenth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Stephanie K. Seymour
                          Judge Ralph G. Thompson,
                                  Western District of Oklahoma

                 Eleventh Circuit:

                          Chief Judge R. Lanier Anderson III
                          Chief Judge Charles R. Butler, Jr.,
                                  Southern District of Alabama



                                                      2
                                                                       March 14, 2000




       District of Columbia Circuit:

               Chief Judge Harry T. Edwards
               Chief Judge Norma H. Johnson,
                       District of Columbia

       Federal Circuit:

               Chief Judge Haldane Robert Mayer

       Court of International Trade:

               Chief Judge Gregory W. Carman

       Circuit Judges W. Eugene Davis, David R. Hansen, Dennis G. Jacobs, Diana
E. Murphy, Paul V. Niemeyer, Jane R. Roth, Anthony J. Scirica, Walter K. Stapleton,
and William W. Wilkins, Jr., District Judges Carol Bagley Amon, Robin J. Cauthron,
Edward B. Davis, John G. Heyburn II, D. Brock Hornby, Michael J. Melloy, Edward
W. Nottingham, Harvey E. Schlesinger, and William J. Zloch, and Judge Richard W.
Goldberg of the Court of International Trade attended the Conference session.
Gregory B. Walters, Circuit Executive for the Ninth Circuit, was also present.

        Senator Patrick Leahy and Representative Howard Coble spoke on matters
pending in Congress of interest to the Conference. Attorney General Janet Reno
addressed the Conference on matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the
Department of Justice.

        Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence A. Lee, Jr.,
Associate Director for Management and Operations; William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate
Director and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel, Assistant Director, Judicial
Conference Executive Secretariat; Michael W. Blommer, Assistant Director,
Legislative Affairs; Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant Director, Judicial Conference
Executive Secretariat; and David Sellers, Deputy Assistant Director, Public Affairs.
Judge Fern Smith and Russell Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal


                                          3
Judicial Conference of the United States

        Judicial Center, also attended the session of the Conference, as did James Duff,
        Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice, and judicial fellows Amie Clifford, Richard
        Mendales, and Mark Miller.



REPORTS
                Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the courts
        and on matters relating to the Administrative Office. Judge Smith spoke to the
        Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs, and Judge Diana E. Murphy,
        Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission, reported on Sentencing
        Commission activities.



ELECTIONS
                 The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the Federal
        Judicial Center Judge Pauline Newman of the Federal Circuit to replace District Judge
        Thomas F. Hogan; Judge Robert Bryan of the Western District of Washington to
        replace Chief Judge Jean C. Hamilton of the Eastern District of Missouri; and Judge
        Jean C. Hamilton to fill the unexpired term of Circuit Judge Robert M. Parker.



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORTS

                 On recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Judicial Conference
        reviewed a December 10, 1999, decision of the Committee on Financial Disclosure,
        made pursuant to authority delegated to it by the Conference, to deny a request by an
        Internet news organization, APBnews.com, for release of the financial disclosure forms
        of all Article III and magistrate judges. APBnews.com had indicated in its request that
        it intended to post the forms on the Internet. The Financial Disclosure Committee
        determined that allowing reports to be published on the Internet would be inconsistent
        with section 105 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. app. § 105),
        which prohibits disclosure of a report to any person who has not made a written
        application stating that person’s name, occupation and address; providing the name and


                                                    4
                                                                             March 14, 2000

address of any other persons or organization on whose behalf the inspection or copy is
requested; and further stating that the person is aware of the prohibitions on the
obtaining or use of the report. The Committee also concluded that publication of the
reports on the Internet would frustrate the intent of section 7 of the Identity Theft and
Assumption Deterrence Act of 1998 (5 U.S.C. app. § 105(b)(3)) that authorizes the
Conference to redact information in a financial disclosure report filed by a judge when
the Conference, in consultation with the United States Marshals Service, decides that
revealing personal and sensitive information could endanger the filer. The Committee
on Security and Facilities concurred in the position of the Financial Disclosure
Committee with regard to Internet posting of judges’ financial disclosure reports.

         The Executive Committee sought Conference consideration of the Financial
Disclosure Committee’s decision because its members believed that section 105(b)(2)
does not authorize denial of a financial disclosure report because of the requester’s
stated intentions to publish the report. However, the Executive Committee was also of
the view that the statute does not require the release for dissemination to the public of
unredacted forms containing information that could endanger the filer, and that the
Financial Disclosure Committee has the authority under the Identity Theft and
Assumption Deterrence Act to make appropriate redactions and then provide the
redacted forms to the requester.

         After a full discussion of the complex issues raised, the Judicial Conference
determined by a two-to-one margin to approve the Executive Committee’s
recommendation to rescind the December 10, 1999, decision of the Financial
Disclosure Committee to withhold release of judges’ financial disclosure reports where
the requester indicates that the reports will be posted on the Internet. The Conference
further agreed to direct the Committee on Financial Disclosure to exercise its delegated
authority as follows:

a.      On an interim basis, when the Committee receives a request for a judicial
        officer’s financial disclosure form that may result in the dissemination to the
        public of that form or the information contained therein, the Committee will
        invite the judicial officer to review the information contained in his or her form.
        Where the officer believes it appropriate, the officer may request redaction of
        personal and sensitive information that is otherwise confidential and could
        endanger the officer or other person if obtained by any member of the public
        hostile to the judicial officer. Upon receipt of a request for redaction, the
        Committee will, in consultation with the United States Marshals Service, grant


                                             5
Judicial Conference of the United States

                 or deny the request after determining whether the information sought to be
                 redacted is not otherwise easily available to the public and could, if obtained by
                 a hostile member of the public, endanger the officer or other person; and




                                                     6
                                                                             March 14, 2000

b.      On a permanent basis, the Committee will implement a procedure requiring
        judicial officers who believe redactions to be appropriate prior to public
        dissemination to request such redactions when the annual disclosure form is
        filed. The Committee will follow the procedures specified above in determining
        the merits of such requests.

         Further, in lieu of a similar recommendation made by the Financial Disclosure
Committee (see infra, “Financial Disclosure Reports,” pp. 16-17), the Judicial
Conference determined to instruct the chairs of the Committees on Codes of Conduct,
Financial Disclosure, and Security and Facilities to confer expeditiously with a view to
proposing as soon as possible to their committees and then to the Judicial Conference
legislative amendments to the Ethics in Government Act that accommodate the public’s
need for information regarding the financial interests of judicial officers and the security
of such officers.


JUDICIAL COMPENSATION

         Under the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990, 5 U.S.C.
§ 5301 et seq., the President may establish geographic adjustments of basic pay for
General Schedule employees in areas in which there exists a significant disparity in rates
of pay offered by non-federal employers and those offered by the government. The
judiciary, to the extent permitted by law, has extended such rates to its employees.
However, locality pay adjustments are not currently available to officials whose pay is
adjusted under the Employment Cost Index mechanism of the Ethics Reform Act of
1989 (e.g., the Vice President, Executive Schedule officers, members of Congress, and
judges). In response to an Office of Personnel Management legislative proposal to
extend locality pay to the Vice President and all Executive Schedule officers, the
Committee on the Judicial Branch recommended that the Judicial Conference support
the proposal, with the understanding that if Congress elected to include itself in the
legislation, the judiciary should be included as well, to the same extent, and without
differential among judges. Subsequently, the judiciary was advised that legislation was
to be introduced in Congress to extend locality pay to the Vice President, all Executive
Schedule officers, and the judiciary, but not to Congress, with the locality pay
adjustment to be applied to all judges equally at the Washington, D. C. rate, which is
currently 9.05 percent. The Executive Committee determined to support this legislation
on behalf of the Conference.



                                             7
Judicial Conference of the United States




        PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE

                  In September 1999, the Judicial Conference adopted two sets of guidelines
        implementing legislation authorizing the judiciary to provide reimbursement for a portion
        of the cost of professional liability insurance to certain groups within the judiciary. One
        set of guidelines pertained to federal public defender organization management and
        supervisory employees (JCUS-SEP 99, pp. 61-62) and the other set pertained to other
        judiciary supervisors and managers (JCUS-SEP 99, pp. 66-67). Subsequently,
        Congress amended the legislation to make the reimbursement benefit mandatory instead
        of discretionary (Public Law No. 106-58). Accordingly, the Committees on Defender
        Services and Judicial Resources recommended that the guidelines be amended to
        reflect this change and also to provide that maximum reimbursement would be limited
        annually to $150, or one-half the cost of the insurance, whichever is less. The
        Executive Committee approved these recommendations on behalf of the Judicial
        Conference.


        MANAGED CARE LEGISLATION

                 Both the Senate and the House of Representatives passed bills during the First
        Session of the 106th Congress that would provide additional rights and procedures for
        persons in managed care health plans (health maintenance organizations (HMOs)), as
        well as for certain other individuals with health insurance. The Committee on
        Federal-State Jurisdiction examined such legislation with particular focus on the
        availability of legal recourse in the federal courts against HMOs for treatment decisions.
        The Senate bill (S. 1344) would not create a personal injury action for damages in any
        court. The House bill (H.R. 2990) would amend the Employee Retirement Income
        Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to preclude an ERISA preemption defense to any cause
        of action by a patient under state law to recover damages resulting from personal injury
        or for wrongful death in connection with the receipt of medical treatment. Alternative
        approaches establishing a personal injury cause of action for the negligent denial of
        medical benefits in federal court, though defeated in the House, remain under
        congressional consideration.

                 Personal injury claims arising from the denial of medical treatment have

                                                     8
                                                                             March 14, 2000

traditionally and satisfactorily been resolved under state law and primarily in the state
court system. Consistent with the Judicial Conference's longstanding position that
Congress should refrain from granting jurisdiction to federal courts over disputes raising
questions primarily of state law, the Federal-State Jurisdiction Committee
recommended that the Judicial Conference urge Congress to provide that, in any
managed care legislation agreed upon, the state courts be the primary fora for the
resolution of personal injury claims arising from the denial of health care benefits, should
Congress determine that such legal recourse is warranted. The Executive Committee,
which was asked to consider this issue on an expedited basis so that the judiciary's
position could be communicated to Congress before the congressional conference
committee began its deliberation, approved the Federal-State Jurisdiction Committee's
recommendation.


MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

        The Executive Committee:

•       Approved final financial plans for the Salaries and Expenses, Defender
        Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners, and Court Security
        appropriations accounts for the remainder of fiscal year 2000 and authorized
        the Director of the Administrative Office to make technical and other
        adjustments, as appropriate.

•       At the request of the Committee on International Judicial Relations, endorsed
        the use of remaining United States Agency for International Development-
        Judicial Conference interagency funds to provide assistance to the judiciary of
        Nigeria, subject to certain conditions.

•       Pursuant to Public Law No. 105-339, approved procedures submitted by the
        Administrative Office and the Federal Judicial Center to provide for veterans’
        preference in applications for employment and in the conduct of any reductions
        in force.

•       On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, amended section
        G.1.a of the Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges (which
        defines “non-case related travel”), to substitute in lieu of subsection (2) of the
        definition the following language: “(2) that involves judicial administration,

                                             9
Judicial Conference of the United States

                 training, education, and extra-judicial activities as permitted by law and
                 encouraged by the Code of Conduct for United States Judges;”.

        •        Agreed to adjust for inflation the maximum daily rate for reimbursement of
                 itemized expenses for judges’ travel within the continental United States.

        •        Approved a recommendation of the Defender Services Committee that
                 legislation be pursued authorizing reimbursement or indemnification of Criminal
                 Justice Act (CJA) panel attorneys for civil malpractice and related actions
                 arising from their CJA services. See JCUS-MAR 93, p. 27.

        •        Adopted a recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee that the
                 judgeship recommendations approved by the Conference in March 1999 for
                 transmittal to Congress (JCUS-MAR 99, pp. 21-22) be amended to exclude
                 the additional temporary judgeship for the District of Minnesota.

        •        Modified the procedure set forth in The Judicial Conference of the United
                 States and its Committees for determining who shall attend a Conference
                 session to provide that the outgoing chair of each committee attending the
                 Conference, in consultation with the Judicial Conference Secretariat, should
                 determine whether the outgoing or incoming chair will attend the session
                 occurring just prior to the expiration of the outgoing chair’s term, without regard
                 to whether an item is on the discussion calendar.

        •        Requested the Administrative Office to post on its website a list indicating
                 which judges had hired law clerks for a particular year.

        •        On recommendation of the Committee on Financial Disclosure, approved
                 deletion of Form AO 10A (as well as instructions and references thereto) from
                 the regulations implementing the Identity Theft and Assumption Deterrence Act
                 of 1998, to facilitate routine administrative changes to the form.



COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                 The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it was briefed on the

                                                     10
                                                                               March 14, 2000

    progress of studies to assess the space and facilities program, court security program,
    information technology program, and national training needs. The Committee reviewed
    favorably the Administrative Office’s efforts to ensure diversity in its workforce. The
    Committee also discussed long-range strategic issues for the Administrative Office. It
    reviewed initiatives underway in the agency to support the probation and pretrial
    services system. In addition, the Committee passed the following resolution in
    recognition of the Administrative Office and its Director, Leonidas Ralph Mecham:

            In appreciation of continued excellent service to the federal judiciary by
            the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts and its Director, Leonidas
            Ralph Mecham, the Committee on the Administrative Office recognizes
            the agency’s efforts and accomplishments during 1999. Director
            Mecham’s many successful initiatives included securing a fiscal year
            2000 funding increase for the courts, when Congress had proposed
            reducing judiciary funding; obtaining an increase in judges’ pay, only the
            second in seven years; opposing a Department of Justice appeal of the
            Williams v. United States lawsuit regarding judges’ pay; achieving the
            passage of legislation protecting judges aged 65 and older from drastic
            increases in their life insurance premiums; and implementing an
            improved benefits program for judges and judiciary employees which
            offers unprecedented long-term care insurance and flexible spending
            accounts.

            The Committee unanimously expresses its appreciation for the
            outstanding achievements of Director Mecham and of the
            Administrative Office during 1999.



COMMITTEE ON AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGY

    LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

           Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612 and on recommendation of the Committee on
    Automation and Technology, the Judicial Conference approved a 2000 update to the
    Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the Federal Judiciary. There
    were no substantive differences between the 1999 and 2000 updates.




                                               11
Judicial Conference of the United States


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE B ANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

        PLACE OF HOLDING BANKRUPTCY COURT

               At the request of the Middle District of Florida and the Eleventh Circuit Judicial
        Council and in accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(1), the Committee on the
        Administration of the Bankruptcy System recommended, and the Judicial Conference
        approved, the designation of Viera as an additional place of holding bankruptcy court in
        the Middle District of Florida.



COMMITTEE ON THE B UDGET

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                 The Committee on the Budget reported that it had been advised of adjustments
        to the fiscal year 2001 budget request and had discussed procedures for preparation of
        the fiscal year 2002 budget request. The Committee was briefed on the explosion of
        drug and immigration cases along the southwest border and its adverse impact on court
        operations, on ongoing financial management improvement initiatives, and on a planned
        review of budget decentralization policies and procedures designed to ensure that the
        benefits of decentralization to the courts and the judiciary will be fully realized.



COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                 The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that it had received 43 new
        written inquiries and issued 43 written advisory responses with an average response
        time of 23 days. The Chairman received and responded to 19 telephonic inquiries, and
        individual Committee members responded to 104 inquiries from their colleagues.




                                               12
                                                                              March 14, 2000


COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
AND CASE MANAGEMENT

    CASE ASSIGNMENT

            The proposed Blind Justice Act of 1999 (S. 1484, 106th Congress) would
    require courts of appeals and district courts to assign all cases on a random basis, with
    limited exceptions for “related” and “technical” cases. The Judicial Conference has
    recently reaffirmed the judiciary’s strong support for the random assignment of cases
    (JCUS-MAR 99, p. 13). However, noting that all courts already employ random case
    assignment procedures, the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
    concluded that the proposed legislation neglected to take into account the complexities
    associated with the random assignment process, and would unnecessarily interfere with
    the authority of judges to manage their caseloads in a fair and expeditious manner. The
    Committee raised several specific concerns with the proposed legislation and
    recommended that the Judicial Conference oppose the Blind Justice Act of 1999 and
    notify Congress of its concerns. The Conference approved the Committee’s
    recommendation.


    COURT OF APPEALS MISCELLANEOUS FEE SCHEDULE

             In September 1997, the Judicial Conference directed bankruptcy appellate
    panels (BAPs) to utilize the miscellaneous fee schedule for the courts of appeals to
    determine fees for services provided to the public (JCUS-SEP 97, p. 60). However,
    there is no fee in the appellate fee schedule for notices of appeal from BAPs
    commensurate with the $5 notice of appeal fee set forth in the bankruptcy
    miscellaneous fee schedule for filing notices of appeal from the district court. To
    correct this discrepancy, the Conference adopted a recommendation of the Committee
    on Court Administration and Case Management, concurred in by the Committee on the
    Administration of the Bankruptcy System, to add a $5 notice of appeal fee to the
    miscellaneous fee schedule for the courts of appeals as follows:

            Upon the filing of any separate or joint notice of appeal or application
            for appeal from a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel, or notice of the
            allowance of an appeal from a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel, or of a writ
            of certiorari, $5 shall be paid by the appellant or petitioner.


                                               13
Judicial Conference of the United States



        CIVIL JUSTICE REFORM ACT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

                 In September 1999, the Judicial Conference adopted a recommendation of the
        Committee on Court Administration and Case Management to amend the instructions
        for the Civil Justice Reform Act report on civil motions pending over six months to state
        that for each district and magistrate judge, the pending date for a motion to be reported
        is 30 days after the motion is filed or, if the motion papers are not filed until the motion
        is fully briefed, then 30 days after the date the motion is first served (JCUS-SEP 99,
        pp. 57-58). Subsequently, the Committee was asked to revisit the issue to consider
        whether to use as the pending date 30 days from the date “the motion is fully submitted”
        to address the procedures of courts where motions are not filed until all responsive
        pleadings have been served, a position the Committee had earlier rejected. After
        careful consideration, the Committee declined to propose any modifications to the
        September 1999 Conference decision. The Conference discussed the issue at this
        session at the request of a Conference member, and it declined to make any changes to
        its September 1999 action on the matter.



COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW

        FICTITIOUS LIENS AGAINST JUDICIAL OFFICERS

                In September 1997, the Judicial Conference agreed to support legislation then
        being drafted by the Department of Justice that would have created a new federal
        criminal offense for harassing or intimidating a federal official, including a judicial officer,
        with respect to the performance of official duties, to include the filing of a lien on the real
        or personal property of that official (JCUS-SEP 97, p. 66). However, to date, the
        Department of Justice’s draft legislation has not been released or transmitted to
        Congress. In order to advance legislation on this issue, the Judicial Conference
        adopted a recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law that the Conference
        modify its previous policy to authorize the judiciary itself to pursue such legislation.




                                                      14
                                                                           March 14, 2000



CONDITIONS OF PROBATION AND SUPERVISED RELEASE

         The Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 provided for a number of discretionary
conditions of probation which are listed in 18 U.S.C. § 3563(b) as subsections (1)
through (20). The Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 changed the
numbering of these conditions, but neglected to change references to them contained in
18 U.S.C. §§ 3563(a) (Mandatory conditions [of probation]) and 3583(d) (Conditions
of supervised release), causing confusion and anomalous results. The renumbering has
also resulted in the authorization of intermittent confinement (custody by the Federal
Bureau of Prisons during nights, weekends, or other intervals of time) as a condition of
supervised release when it was not previously statutorily available. The Committee on
Criminal Law reviewed the current use of intermittent confinement as a condition of
probation and supervised release and determined that the flexibility to use such a
condition as a response to a violation should be preserved. On recommendation of the
Committee, the Conference agreed to pursue legislation that would correct the cross-
references in 18 U.S.C. §§ 3563(a) and 3583(d) to reflect the renumbering of 18
U.S.C. § 3563(b) by the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act, except that the
cross-reference in 18 U.S.C. § 3583(d) authorizing discretionary intermittent
confinement as a condition of supervised release should be preserved, but its use limited
to violation proceedings.


WORKPLACE DRUG TESTING PROGRAM /ZERO
TOLERANCE POLICY

        On recommendation of the Criminal Law Committee, the Judicial Conference
adopted a workplace drug testing program for probation and pretrial services officers
and officer assistants that includes applicant, random, reasonable suspicion, follow-up,
and voluntary drug testing to be implemented by the Director of the Administrative
Office. The Committee’s recommendation was based on a determination that each
component of the program is appropriate and feasible for officers in the judiciary. The
Administrative Office will report all test results to the chief district judge or chief
probation or pretrial services officer for appropriate personnel action.

       The Conference also approved a recommendation of the Committee that the
Conference adopt a zero tolerance policy for controlled substance (as defined in the
Controlled Substance Act, 21 U.S.C. §§ 811-812) use by probation and pretrial

                                           15
Judicial Conference of the United States

        services officers and officer assistants, due to the special nature of the officers’
        investigative and supervision work and unique law enforcement mission within the
        judiciary. Zero tolerance calls upon the courts to take some action, up to and including
        dismissal, in the event the officer or officer assistant were to test positive for drug use.
        This policy expands the existing judicial branch policy on drug use in the workplace
        (see JCUS-MAR 97, p. 9) and conforms the practice in the federal probation and
        pretrial services system to the practice of other federal law enforcement agencies.



COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES

        DISCLOSURE OF CJA PANEL ATTORNEY PAYMENTS

                 In 1997, subsection (d)(4) of the Criminal Justice Act, 18 U.S.C.
        § 3006A, was amended to require that amounts paid to attorneys appointed under the
        CJA be made publicly available pursuant to a specific process. This amendment
        included a two-year sunset provision. To conform to the amendment, in March 1999,
        the Judicial Conference approved revisions to paragraph 5.01B of the Guidelines for
        the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act and Related Statutes, Volume VII, Guide
        to Judiciary Policies and Procedures (JCUS-MAR 99, pp. 15-16). The Committee
        on Defender Services has found that the revised guideline provides a workable
        mechanism for disclosing CJA panel attorney payment information, while at the same
        time affording attorneys reasonable notice prior to disclosure to allow them to request
        redaction of information to protect their clients’ interests. There has been no reported
        difficulty with the procedure. On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
        agreed to retain the revised guideline after the scheduled sunset, with the following
        minor revisions: (a) to indicate that for cases filed on or after January 25, 2000, the
        guideline will no longer be statutorily based; and (b) to reflect a further amendment to
        CJA subsection (d)(4), enacted as part of the Fiscal Year 2000 Consolidated
        Appropriations Act (Public Law No. 106-113), which states that in death penalty
        cases where the underlying alleged criminal conduct took place on or after




                                                     16
                                                                               March 14, 2000

    April 19, 1995, the amount of the fees shall not be considered a reason justifying limited
    disclosure of payments to attorneys.1


    DEFENDER ORGANIZATION FUNDING REQUESTS

            Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR 89,
    pp. 16-17), the Committee on Defender Services approved budgets for federal
    defender organizations in the amount of $244,595,000 for fiscal year 2000.



COMMITTEE ON F EDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction made a recommendation to the
    Judicial Conference regarding pending managed care legislation. In order to
    communicate a Conference policy to Congress expeditiously, the Executive Committee
    acted on this matter on behalf of the Conference. See supra, “Managed Care
    Legislation,” pp. 7-8. In addition, the Committee reported that it discussed asbestos
    legislation, mass torts, class action legislation, and rules governing attorney conduct.



COMMITTEE ON F INANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORTS

            On recommendation of the Committee on Financial Disclosure, the Judicial
    Conference approved an amendment to paragraph 4.0(b)(1) of the Regulations of the
    Judicial Conference of the United States on Access to Financial Disclosure Reports

    1
      In accordance with the Defender Services Committee’s recommendation, the Judicial
    Conference approved the proposed revisions to paragraph 5.01B of the CJA
    Guidelines subject to the proviso that if the public disclosure provisions of 18 U.S.C. §
    3006A(d)(4) were extended beyond their scheduled expiration date of January 24,
    2000, the Guidelines should remain unchanged. The public disclosure provisions did
    expire as scheduled, and therefore this proviso is moot.

                                               17
Judicial Conference of the United States

        Filed by Judges and Judiciary Employees Under the Ethics in Government Act of 1978,
        As Amended, to remove the requirement that a requester provide his or her social
        security number on the request form.

                 The Committee also dealt extensively with a request by APBnews.com, an
        Internet news organization, for release of the financial disclosure forms of all Article III
        and magistrate judges so that they may be posted on the Internet. Its December 10,
        1999, decision to deny the request was reconsidered by the Conference pursuant to a
        recommendation of the Executive Committee. Understanding that its decision was to
        be reconsidered, the Financial Disclosure Committee recommended that an ad hoc
        committee be established to develop a legislative proposal concerning the obligations of
        judicial officers to disclose. The Conference addressed the Committee’s
        recommendation in the context of the recommendations of the Executive Committee on
        the same subject. See supra, “Financial Disclosure Reports,” pp. 4-6.



COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                 The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the period
        from July 1, 1999 to December 31, 1999, a total of 98 intercircuit assignments,
        undertaken by 65 Article III judges, were processed and recommended by the
        Committee and approved by the Chief Justice. During calendar year 1999, 153
        intercircuit assignments were processed and approved. In addition, the Committee
        aided courts requesting assistance in identifying and obtaining judges willing to take
        assignments.


COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                 The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its involvement in
        rule-of-law programs in or with delegations from Africa, Asia, Europe, the Middle East,
        and Latin America. The Committee also commended the government of Puerto Rico
        and members of its legal community who had helped found the Inter-American Center


                                                    18
                                                                              March 14, 2000

    for the Administration of Justice and Public Policy, which trains judges and defenders
    from Central and South America in common law procedures in a Spanish language
    environment.



COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL B RANCH

    THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN

            Under 5 U.S.C. § 8433(h)(1)(A), judges and other employees who are still
    employed by the federal government are permitted a one-time-only withdrawal of any
    portion of funds from their Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) accounts at age 59 ½ (which is
    considered by the Internal Revenue Service to be the retirement age) or older. The
    regulations governing private sector plans place no restrictions on the number of in-
    service withdrawals allowed after age 59 ½ (26 C.F.R.
    § 1.401(k)-1(d)). Article III judges are not permitted to withdraw funds from the TSP
    in the nature of a retirement benefit until they become separated from federal service or
    take senior status. Because some judges may decide never to take senior status or may
    delay taking it beyond age 65, this one-time withdrawal feature places a particular
    hardship on them. On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
    Judicial Conference agreed to endorse legislation that would amend 5 U.S.C. § 8433
    to permit all TSP participants to withdraw their funds without restriction when they
    reach retirement age. The Conference further agreed that as a fallback position, in the
    event an amendment to § 8433 is not viable, legislation should be sought amending 5
    U.S.C. § 8440a to repeal the rule requiring judges to separate from the government or
    elect senior status as a condition precedent to securing TSP funds.


    LUMP-SUM PAYMENT OF ANNUAL LEAVE

            Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. §§ 5551 and 5552, employees under the Leave Act,
    5 U.S.C. § 6301 et seq., are generally entitled to a lump-sum payment of their annual
    leave balance only when they separate from civilian government service by resignation,
    retirement, entry into active military duty, or death, and they may not receive payments
    when transferring between federal positions. Nevertheless, by longstanding practice,
    when career government employees are named to Article III judgeships (exempt from
    Leave Act coverage), they have received a lump-sum payment of their annual leave
    balance upon their appointment to the judicial office on the theory that their lifetime

                                               19
Judicial Conference of the United States


        appointment was inconsistent with the notion of their ever “separating” from the
        government so as eventually to receive a refund. Pursuant to new regulations issued by
        the Office of Personnel Management, however, judicial appointees will no longer
        receive a lump-sum payment at the time of appointment. Instead, consistent with the
        letter of 5 U.S.C. § 5551, the earned leave must be held in abeyance either for recredit
        if the employee transfers back to a Leave Act-covered position or for payment of a
        lump sum upon separation (at the rate earned when the presidential appointment was
        made). 5 C.F.R. § 550.1203(e). Such deferral could in some cases be tantamount to
        a forfeiture of the funds. To rectify this situation, the Judicial Conference adopted a
        recommendation of the Committee that it endorse legislation that would amend 5
        U.S.C. § 5551 to restore the previous practice with regard to lump-sum payment of
        annual leave upon appointment to judicial office.


        MILITARY DUAL COMPENSATION RESTRICTIONS

                 Section 651 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000
        (Public Law No. 106-65) repealed the dual compensation restrictions which were
        found at 5 U.S.C. § 5532, applicable to retired military personnel reemployed in civilian
        positions. For most federal employees, including all non-Article III judges, this
        legislation ended the reductions in retired pay previously required of retired military
        service members who assume civilian federal employment. It is the view of the
        Department of Defense that 28 U.S.C. § 371(e) continues to prohibit the receipt of
        military retired pay by Article III judges. To permit judges to receive military retired
        pay in the same manner as other federal employees, on recommendation of the
        Committee, the Conference endorsed legislation that would amend 28 U.S.C. § 371 by
        repealing subsection (e), retroactive to October 1, 1999, with the understanding that an
        effective date of fiscal year 2001 may be substituted if the former date would
        jeopardize enactment of the provision.


        COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS LEGISLATION

                Life Insurance. The Court of Federal Claims sought to have included in the
        judiciary’s federal courts improvement bill (H.R. 1752, 106th Congress) a provision
        that would amend chapter 87 of title 5, United States Code, to provide that a retired
        Claims Court judge is a “judge of the United States” for purposes of Federal


                                                   20
                                                                          March 14, 2000


Employees’ Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) coverage. This would extend to these
judges full FEGLI Basic Life insurance coverage into retirement with the same level of
government contributions as Article III judges. It was the stated intention of the Court
of Federal Claims in proposing this legislation also to extend to its judges the FEGLI
“fix,” i.e., the benefit recently enacted by Congress that empowers the Conference, in
its discretion, to authorize payment from appropriated funds of any increases imposed
after April 24, 1999, in the life insurance premiums for Article III judges age 65 or
above (Public Law No. 106-113). In August 1999, the Executive Committee, acting
on behalf of the Conference, determined to oppose the Claims Court provision in order
to study whether to extend such coverage to Claims Court judges as well as to
bankruptcy, magistrate, and territorial judges (JCUS-SEP 99, p. 46). The Committee
on the Judicial Branch has subsequently had the opportunity to consider the
recommendations of the Committees on the Administration of the Bankruptcy and
Magistrate Judges Systems on this issue. Citing legislative priorities and principles of
equity, the Judicial Branch Committee recommended, and the Conference agreed, that
the Conference should oppose the proposal that a judge of the Court of Federal Claims
be deemed a “judge of the United States” for purposes of construing and applying
chapter 87 of title 5, United States Code, and to the extent that it would extend the
reach of the FEGLI “fix” to the judges of the Court of Federal Claims.

         Health Benefits. In August 1999, the Executive Committee also opposed, on
behalf of the Conference, a legislative proposal that would exempt Federal Claims
Court judges from the requirement that a Federal Employees Health Benefits Program
enrollee must have been enrolled in the program for at least five years prior to
retirement in order to continue participation after retirement, so that the impact of the
section on non-Article III judges could be studied (JCUS-SEP 99, p. 46). This
exemption is currently provided only to an Article III judge who retires on senior status
or a bankruptcy or magistrate judge who is recalled under 28 U.S.C. § 375. After
considering the views of the Bankruptcy and Magistrate Judges Committees, the
Judicial Branch Committee recommended that the Conference support an amendment
to the extent that it would except retired judges of the Court of Federal Claims who are
recalled to perform judicial duties under
28 U.S.C. § 178(d) from the five-year prior enrollment requirement in order to
participate in the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. The Judicial
Conference approved the recommendation.




                                           21
Judicial Conference of the United States


COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                The Judicial Resources Committee made two recommendations to the Judicial
        Conference that were acted upon by the Executive Committee due to time constraints.
        One dealt with a request of the District of Minnesota that a previously approved
        additional temporary judgeship (JCUS-MAR 99, pp. 21-22) be excluded from the
        Conference’s judgeship recommendations. See supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” pp.
        8-9. The second involved modifications to Judicial Conference guidelines for
        administering the professional liability insurance reimbursement program (JCUS-SEP
        99, pp. 66-67). See supra, “Professional Liability Insurance,” p. 7.



COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

        RECALL REGULATIONS

                 On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate
        Judges System, the Judicial Conference approved amendments to section 13(a)-(d) of
        the ad hoc and extended service recall regulations for retired magistrate judges to
        provide that: (a) for full-time out-of-district recalls of one to three months, a recalled
        judge may claim subsistence expenses of no more than 75% of the maximum per diem
        for the location where the judge is recalled; (b) for full-time out-of-district recalls
        exceeding three months, a recalled judge may claim subsistence expenses of no more
        than 60% of the maximum per diem for the location where the judge is recalled; and (c)
        the Director of the Administrative Office may adjust the reimbursement limits where it is
        demonstrated that such limits are either too high or too low to compensate retired
        judges fairly for recall service in the designated location. The purpose of these
        amendments is to provide magistrate judges, district courts, and circuit judicial councils
        with advance knowledge of the extent to which expenses will be reimbursed for any
        proposed recall.




                                                   22
                                                                             March 14, 2000


        Also on recommendation of the Committee, the Conference amended section
13(e) of the ad hoc and extended service recall regulations to provide for Committee
review of any new request for recall service in which the magistrate judge’s salary and
reimbursable travel and subsistence expenses are expected to exceed an annual total of
$50,000. Such approval would provide a neutral evaluation of recall requests involving
substantial expense to the judiciary.


CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

         After consideration of the report of the Committee and the recommendations of
the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of
the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the following changes in positions,
salaries, and arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrate judge positions.
Changes with a budgetary impact are to be effective when appropriated funds are
available.

FOURTH CIRCUIT

District of Maryland

1.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Hagerstown
        from Level 4 ($32,749 per annum) to Level 2 ($54,582 per annum);

2.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Salisbury from
        Level 6 ($10,916 per annum) to Level 5 ($21,833 per annum);

3.      Redesignated the two full-time magistrate judge positions currently designated
        as Greenbelt or Prince Georges Plaza as Greenbelt;

4.      Redesignated the full-time magistrate judge position currently designated as
        Greenbelt, Baltimore or Prince Georges Plaza as Greenbelt or Baltimore; and

5.      Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
        magistrate judge positions in the district.




                                            23
Judicial Conference of the United States


        F IFTH C IRCUIT

        Eastern District of Louisiana

                 Made no change in the number, location, or arrangements of the magistrate
                 judge positions in the district.

        Southern District of Mississippi

                 Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
                 judge positions in the district.

        EIGHTH C IRCUIT

        Northern District of Iowa

        1.       Designated the full-time magistrate judge position at Sioux City to serve in the
                 adjoining District of Nebraska and District of South Dakota; and

        2.       Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

        District of Nebraska

                 Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
                 judge positions in the district.

        District of North Dakota

                 Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

        N INTH C IRCUIT

        District of Alaska

        1.       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Ketchikan


                                                    24
                                                                          March 14, 2000


        from Level 8 ($3,275 per annum) to Level 6 ($10,916 per annum); and

2.      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the other
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

Northern District of California

1.      Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at San Francisco or
        San Jose; and

2.      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the other
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

Southern District of California

1.      Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at El Centro to full-time
        status; and

2.      Made no change in the number, location, or arrangements of the other
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

District of Nevada

        Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
        judge positions in the district.

TENTH C IRCUIT

District of New Mexico

1.      Authorized a part-time magistrate judge position at Roswell at Salary Level 7
        ($5,458 per annum); and

2.      Redesignated the part-time magistrate judge position currently designated as
        Clovis or Portales or Roswell as Clovis or Portales.

District of Utah


                                           25
Judicial Conference of the United States


        1.       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Saint George
                 from Level 4 ($32,749 per annum) to Level 2 ($54,582 per annum); and

        2.       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the other
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

        ELEVENTH C IRCUIT

        Middle District of Alabama

                 Made no change in the number, location, or arrangements of the magistrate
                 judge positions in the district.



COMMITTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT
COUNCIL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                 The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders
        reported on the status of litigation arising from an order issued by the Judicial Council of
        the Fifth Circuit and affirmed by the Committee, imposing sanctions against a district
        judge.



COMMITTEE ON RULES OF P RACTICE AND P ROCEDURE

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                 The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it reviewed
        the status of a number of proposed rules changes and approved proposed amendments
        to the Appellate and Criminal Rules for publication and comment. The Committee also
        considered issues relating to rules governing attorney conduct and rules requiring non-
        governmental corporate parties to disclose financial interests, and embarked on a
        second comprehensive national local rules project.



                                                    26
     March 14, 2000




27
Judicial Conference of the United States


COMMITTEE ON SECURITY AND F ACILITIES

        FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

                 After consultation with circuit judicial councils, the Committee on Security and
        Facilities proposed a five-year plan of courthouse construction projects for the fiscal
        years 2001-2005. The Judicial Conference approved the plan.


        FEDERAL PROTECTIVE SERVICE REFORM ACT

                Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 566(a), security for the federal judiciary is the
        responsibility of the United States Marshals Service (USMS). This responsibility
        overlaps with that of the General Services Administration’s (GSA) Federal Protective
        Service in multi-tenant buildings housing both court and non-court units. To clarify the
        appropriate division of responsibility between these agencies, the Administrative Office,
        USMS, and GSA have executed a series of agreements relating to court security
        services which stipulate that the USMS provides security for federal judicial facilities,
        including many multi-tenant facilities that house court operations. In order to address
        concerns that certain provisions in the proposed Federal Protective Service Reform Act
        (H.R. 809, 106th Congress) could infringe upon the role of the USMS in providing
        security for the federal judiciary, on recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
        agreed to seek an amendment to the bill that would insert the following language as a
        new section 10 at the end of the bill:

                 None of the provisions in this Act shall be construed to interfere with,
                 supersede, or otherwise affect the authority of the United States
                 Marshals Service to provide security for the federal judiciary pursuant
                 to 28 U.S.C. § 566 et seq.


        SPACE ACQUISITION AND RENOVATION ALTERNATIVES

                Many courts exist in crowded, insecure, and functionally obsolescent facilities
        that, nonetheless, will never be included in a Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan.
        Some local courts have been receiving direct offers from private developers and the


                                                    28
                                                                             March 14, 2000


United States Postal Service to form partnerships either to construct new courthouses
or renovate existing court facilities in Postal Service-owned buildings. Recognizing the
potential benefits of partnerships with the private sector, the Committee determined to
explore this alternative further. In the interim, it recommended that the Conference
approve the following policy with regard to space acquisition and renovation
alternatives: (a) courts should advise their judicial councils and the Administrative Office
as soon as they are approached by non-judiciary parties proposing and recommending
repair, alteration, or replacement of court facilities; (b) courts should be advised that no
financial commitment to any such proposal can be made by a court or council on behalf
of the judiciary due to funding constraints; and (c) the Committee on Security and
Facilities should begin development of a program to address the needs of courts
retaining current facilities that need repairs or alterations to improve operational
functions and/or security. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


UNITED STATES COURTS DESIGN GUIDE

         Ballistic-Resistant Glazing. The 1997 edition of the United States Courts
Design Guide requires UL Standard 752, Level VIII ballistic-resistant glazing for
windows located in courtrooms and chambers at ground level, and Level III ballistic-
resistant glazing for windows in courtrooms located above the ground floor. No special
glazing is required for judges’ chambers windows located above the ground floor.
Based on ballistic testing showing that Level IV glazing provides adequate protection
and is less costly than Level VIII, the Committee recommended that the Conference
amend the Design Guide to provide that, for new construction or major renovation
projects, the ballistic-resistant glazing standard for windows in all courtrooms and
chambers, regardless of where they are located in the courthouse, be UL Standard
752, Level IV, unless the United States Marshals Service determines that ballistic-
resistant glazing is not needed. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
recommendation.

         Bookshelves in Chambers. The United States Courts Design Guide provides
that the General Services Administration is responsible for funding all fixed furniture,
including bookshelves in judges’ chambers, while the judiciary is financially responsible
for all movable furniture and equipment. In order to clarify GSA’s funding
responsibility for fixed bookcases with adjustable bookshelves, the Conference
adopted a recommendation of the Committee to amend the Design Guide to strike the

                                            29
Judicial Conference of the United States


        word “bookshelves” from the language in Table 5.1 listing “movable” furniture.

                Jury Boxes in Bankruptcy Courtrooms. The 1997 edition of the United
        States Courts Design Guide provides that every bankruptcy courtroom “must”
        accommodate an eight-person jury box. The Committee recommended that the
        Design Guide be amended to state that an eight-person jury box should be provided
        “when determined necessary,” in order to clarify that jury boxes in bankruptcy
        courtrooms are not required in every new courthouse. The Conference voted to
        recommit the recommendation to the Security and Facilities Committee so that the
        Committee may obtain the views of the Committee on the Administration of the
        Bankruptcy System, provided that while the matter is under reconsideration, a
        moratorium will be imposed on the design or construction of jury boxes in new or
        existing bankruptcy courtrooms.


        COURTROOM SHARING

                  The President’s fiscal year 2001 budget request for seven courthouse
        construction projects includes a statement that the request “assumes courtroom
        sharing.” The General Services Administration was directed by the Office of
        Management and Budget (OMB) to reduce the budget for each of the seven projects
        to reflect an OMB-generated policy on courtroom sharing that would allow only two
        courtrooms for every three judges, regardless of court type. OMB’s position is in direct
        contradiction to a Judicial Conference policy on courtroom sharing that provides for
        one courtroom for each active district judge and specific guidelines to determine the
        number of courtrooms for senior and visiting judges (JCUS-MAR 97, pp. 17-18). The
        Judicial Conference policy, which was developed after analysis of two major studies on
        courtroom utilization and case management, recognizes the indispensable need for a
        courtroom to fulfill the essential judicial responsibilities of criminal trials, sentencing, and
        civil cases. Congress has provided OMB with no authority over the provision of
        courtrooms for federal judges or over the underlying policy governing courtroom
        utilization. Adopting a recommendation of the Committee on Security and Facilities,
        concurred in by the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management, the
        Judicial Conference strongly condemned the unilateral efforts of the Office of




                                                      30
                                                                              March 14, 2000


    Management and Budget to impose a courtroom sharing policy on the judicial branch,
    as an unwarranted and inappropriate intrusion into the constitutionally mandated
    independence of the judiciary.



MAIL B ALLOT
            By mail ballot concluded on December 3, 1999, the Conference approved for
    transmission to the Supreme Court an amendment to Rule 26(b)(2) of the Federal
    Rules of Civil Procedure dealing with presumptive national limits on depositions and
    interrogatories. See JCUS-SEP 99, p. 74.



F UNDING
            All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of funds for
    implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to the availability of
    funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might establish for the use of available
    resources.




                                                    Chief Justice of the United States
                                                    Presiding




                                               31
