REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


March 18, 2003


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on March 18, 2003, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. ' 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                    First Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Michael Boudin
                                Judge D. Brock Hornby,
                                       District of Maine

                    Second Circuit:

                                Chief Judge John M. Walker, Jr.
                                Chief Judge Frederick J. Scullin, Jr.,
                                       Northern District of New York

                    Third Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Edward R. Becker
                                Chief Judge Sue L. Robinson,
                                       District of Delaware

                    Fourth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge William W. Wilkins
                                Judge David C. Norton,
                                       District of South Carolina

                    Fifth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King
                                Judge Martin L. C. Feldman,
                                       Eastern District of Louisiana
Judicial Conference of the United States

                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Boyce F. Martin, Jr.
                                           Chief Judge Lawrence P. Zatkoff,
                                                  Eastern District of Michigan

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel M. Flaum
                                           Judge Marvin E. Aspen,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge David R. Hansen
                                           Chief Judge James M. Rosenbaum,
                                                  District of Minnesota

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                         Chief Judge Mary M. Schroeder
                                         Chief Judge David Alan Ezra,
                                                District of Hawaii
                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Deanell R. Tacha
                                           Chief Judge Frank Howell Seay,
                                                  Eastern District of Oklahoma

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge J. L. Edmondson
                                           Judge J. Owen Forrester,
                                                  Northern District of Georgia

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Douglas H. Ginsburg
                                           Chief Judge Thomas F. Hogan,
                                                  District of Columbia




                                                     2
                                                                   March 18, 2003

           Federal Circuit:

                      Chief Judge Haldane Robert Mayer

           Court of International Trade:

                      Chief Judge Gregory W. Carman

           Circuit Judges Dennis G. Jacobs, Michael J. Melloy, Jane R. Roth, and
   Anthony J. Scirica, and District Judges Lourdes G. Baird, John G. Heyburn II,
    John W. Lungstrum, James Robertson, Patti B. Saris, Harvey E. Schlesinger,
   and Frederick P. Stamp, Jr. attended the Conference session. Betsy Shumaker
   of the Tenth Circuit represented the circuit executives.

           Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
   United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence
   A. Lee, Jr., Associate Director for Management and Operations; William R.
   Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel,
   Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Michael W.
   Blommer, Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; David Sellers, Assistant
   Director, Public Affairs; and Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant Director,
   Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat. Judge Fern Smith and Russell
   Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center, were in
   attendance at the session of the Conference, as was Sally Rider,
   Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice. Scott Harris and Tonia Powell,
   Supreme Court Counsel and Staff Counsel, and the 2002-2003 Judicial
   Fellows also observed the Conference proceedings.

           Senators Orrin G. Hatch and Patrick J. Leahy and Representatives
   John Conyers, Jr., and Lamar S. Smith spoke on matters pending in Congress
   of interest to the Conference. Attorney General John Ashcroft addressed the
   Conference on matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department
   of Justice.


REPORTS
           Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
   courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge Smith
   spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs, and Judge




                                3
   Judicial Conference of the United States

   Diana E. Murphy, Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission, reported
   on Sentencing Commission activities.


ELECTIONS
           The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
   Federal Judicial Center, each for a term of four years, District Judges Sarah S.
   Vance of the Eastern District of Louisiana and James A. Parker of the District
   of New Mexico to succeed District Judges Jean C. Hamilton of the Eastern
   District of Missouri and William H. Yohn, Jr. of the Eastern District of
   Pennsylvania.


EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
   UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION

           On recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Judicial
   Conference agreed to recommend that the President, with the advice and
   consent of the Senate, reappoint to the U.S. Sentencing Commission Judges
   Ruben Castillo of the Northern District of Illinois and William K. Sessions III
   of the District of Vermont.


   FEDERAL COURTS IMPROVEMENT BILL

            Every two years, each Conference committee considers legislative
   initiatives within its jurisdiction that were approved by the Conference but not
   yet enacted to decide whether those provisions should be pursued in the
   upcoming federal courts improvement bill or another legislative vehicle, and
   notifies the Executive Committee of its determinations. At its February 2003
   meeting, the Executive Committee reviewed the decisions of the committees
   on whether pending Conference positions should be pursued in the 108th
   Congress. With two exceptions (which were referred back to the relevant
   committees for further consideration), the Executive Committee concurred in
   the determinations of the committees on whether or not to seek such legislation
   at this time. The Executive Committee also reviewed any legislative
   provisions within its own jurisdiction that had not yet been enacted.




                                                    4
                                                                                  March 18, 20



MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

    The Executive CommitteeC

$   Approved adjustments to the judiciary=s fiscal year (FY) 2004 budget
    request, including technical changes necessitated by increases in the
    federal pay and benefit inflation rates and increased life insurance
    premiums for Article III judges, and reflecting a lower estimate of the
    annual recurring costs associated with a proposed court operations
    support center;

$   In light of the fiscal uncertainty created by Congress= failure to pass an
    FY 2003 appropriations bill before the end of the 107th Congress,
    authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to issue guidance
    to court units that receive funding from the Salaries and Expenses
    account, limiting their rates of operation through December 31, 2002 to
    95 percent of their FY 2002 allotment levels;

$   Approved a proposed letter for the Chief Justice=s signature appealing
    provisions in the Senate-passed omnibus appropriations bill for FY
    2003 that would have provided lower-than-required funding levels,
    significantly restructured certain judiciary appropriations accounts, and
    made important policy changes with regard to the provision of judicial
    security;

$   Agreed that the Executive Committee chair should join the Director of
    the Administrative Office and the chair of the Budget Committee in
    advising the courts of the severity of the judiciary=s budget situation in
    FY 2004, of the likelihood that the budget crisis will continue in years
    to come, and of the critical need for the Conference committees and the
    courts to adjust budget requests and spending plans to reflect this
    budget environment;

$   Upon enactment of a judiciary appropriations bill, approved final
    financial plans for fiscal year 2003 for the Salaries and Expenses,
    Defender Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners, and Court
    Security accounts, and reaffirmed its earlier determination to advise
    courts of the severity of the budget crisis and the likelihood that it will
    continue in years to come;




                                               5
Judicial Conference of the United States

$       Approved proposed comments, concurred in by the chairs of the
        Committees on Court Administration and Case Management,
        Information Technology, and Rules of Practice and Procedure, to be
        submitted to the Department of Commerce=s National
        Telecommunications and Information Administration, urging retention
        of the statutory exception for official court documents found in the
        Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (Public
        Law No. 106-229);

$       On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
        Magistrate Judges System, approved immediate temporary increases in
        the salaries of two part-time magistrate judges, one in the Eastern
        District of California and one in the District of North Dakota, and
        subsequently extended for up to nine months the salary increase for the
        part-time magistrate judge in North Dakota;

$       Approved the public release of a report drafted by the Bankruptcy
        Committee=s Subcommittee on Mass Torts, provided that it contain
        certain disclaimer language;

$       Declined to change the jurisdictional statement of the Committee on
        Judicial Resources to include oversight of the Federal Law Clerk
        Information System, but will revisit the issue if the need arises;

$       Requested that the Magistrate Judges Committee reconsider its
        recommendation that the Director of the Administrative Office amend
        the Regulations of the Director Implementing the Retirement and
        Survivors= Annuities for Bankruptcy Judges and Magistrates Act to
        exclude mediation and arbitration from the definition of the practice of
        law;

$       Requested that the Court Administration and Case Management
        Committee, in consulation with the Committee on Information
        Technology, consider whether to propose regulations to assist the
        courts in implementing the E-Government Act (Public Law No. 107-
        347); and

$       Determined to allow the annual automatic inflation adjustment to the
        alternative subsistence rate for reimbursement of judges= travel
        expenses to take effect.




                                                 6
                                                                                   March 18, 2003

COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it was
    briefed on the AO=s efforts to obtain funding for the judiciary, to keep Judicial
    Conference and committee members informed during the uncertain fiscal year
    2003 budget situation, and to provide guidance to the courts on spending
    limitations pending enactment of a judiciary budget. The Committee was also
    briefed on a study on establishing an off-site court operations support center
    and on other emergency preparedness efforts, on the activities of the
    Appellate Court and Circuit Administration Division, and on major AO
    initiatives including internal control enhancements, benefits initiatives, and a
    study to be undertaken to identify viable alternatives for the delivery of
    administrative support services to the courts.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

   REVISION OF BANKRUPTCY CODE
   DOLLAR AMOUNTS

           Section 104(a) of the Bankruptcy Code requires the Judicial
   Conference to transmit to Congress and to the President every six years a
   recommendation for the uniform percentage adjustment of each dollar amount
   in the Bankruptcy Code and in 28 U.S.C. ' 1930 (which prescribes filing and
   other fees to be paid in bankruptcy cases). Since ' 104(a) was adopted, there
   have been several statutory changes relating to bankruptcy fee provisions,
   including authorization for periodic automatic adjustments of numerous
   specific dollar amounts in the Code (see ' 104(b) of the Code, added by the
   Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994, Public Law No. 103-394). These changes
   call into question the appropriateness of recommending a uniform percentage
   increase to all dollar amounts and fees. Moreover, the Court Administration
   and Case Management Committee is currently conducting a study of court fees
   and intends to make recommendations to the Judicial Conference for
   consideration in September 2003. The Conference therefore approved the
   Bankruptcy Committee=s recommendation that Congress and the President be
   advised, before the May 1,



                                             7
   Judicial Conference of the United States

   2003 statutory deadline, that no uniform percentage adjustment should be
   made at this time to the dollar amounts contained in the Bankruptcy Code or in

   28 U.S.C. ' 1930, pending review of all fees by the Judicial Conference in
   September 2003.


   COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

           The Bankruptcy Committee reported that it established a subcommittee
   to work with the Committee on Information Technology to define further
   functionality in the case management/electronic case files (CM/ECF) system in
   order to assist judges in using the system. In addition, the Committee
   considered whether service as an arbitrator or mediator by retired bankruptcy
   judges should be deemed the practice of law under the Director's retirement
   regulations; discussed budget contingency planning and efforts to identify and
   incorporate Abetter practices@ into the court staffing formulae; and received
   briefings on a wide range of topics, including studies of existing court fees,
   court sharing of administrative resources, bankruptcy case weights, and venue-
   related issues in large chapter 11 cases.


COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
    COURT REGISTRY INVESTMENT SYSTEM

            On recommendation of the Budget Committee, the Judicial
    Conference agreed to seek legislation to allow the Court Registry Investment
    System (CRIS) to invest in Treasury securities issued under the Government
    Account Series program. Participation in this program will increase the
    liquidity of CRIS funds and their income-earning potential because the
    judiciary will be able to invest daily instead of weekly and avoid certain
    investment fees.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

           The Committee on the Budget reported that it discussed the likelihood
   of serious budget constraints in future years. The Committee considered
   short-term and long-term funding issues, including strategies to address
   increases in future budget requirements that could approach 20 percent


                                                  8
                                                                                      March 18, 2

    annually. The Committee plans to use the long-range planning process and its
    summer meeting with the program committee chairs as vehicles to support
    and encourage program committees in their efforts to examine long-range
    budget issues and to limit annual budget increases so that requests to Congress
    can continue to be justified.


COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

           The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last
    report to the Conference in September 2002, the Committee received 35
    new written inquiries and issued 38 written advisory responses. During
    this period, the average response time for requests was 19 days. The
    Chairman received and responded to 22 telephone inquiries, and
    individual Committee members responded to 110 inquiries from their
    colleagues.


COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
AND CASE MANAGEMENT

    SUBPOENAS TO JUDGES AND EMPLOYEES

            On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
    Case Management, the Judicial Conference adopted regulations to govern the
    judiciary=s responses to subpoenas issued to federal judges and employees, to
    be included in the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures. These
    regulations establish procedures for litigants to follow in obtaining testimony
    of judiciary personnel and production of judiciary records in legal
    proceedings, as well as procedures for judges and employees to follow if they
    receive subpoenas. The regulations should, among other things, expedite the
    response process and minimize the involvement of the federal judiciary in
    issues unrelated to its mission.


    COURT TECHNOLOGY FEES

           Section 1920 of title 28, United States Code, allows judges and clerks
    of court to tax litigants for certain costs of litigation. The Committee on

                                                    9
Judicial Conference of the United States

Court Administration and Case Management was asked to consider whether
the list of taxable costs should be amended to include expenses associated
with new courtroom technologies. Concluding that adding the full range of
such costs might go well beyond the intended scope of the statute, the
Committee recommended that the Conference endorse two limited
amendments to
28 U.S.C. ' 1920, the first to permit taxing the cost of transcripts produced
electronically, and the second to permit taxing the costs associated with
copying materials whether or not they are in paper form. The Conference
adopted the Committee=s recommendation and agreed to seek the following
amendments to 28 U.S.C. ' 1920 (new language is in bold, language to be
deleted is struck through):

        A judge or clerk of any court of the United States may tax as
        costs the following:

                                ****
        (2) Fees of the court reporter for all or any part of the
        stenographic transcript for printed or electronically recorded
        transcripts necessarily obtained for use in the case; and

                                   ****

        (4) Fees for exemplification and copies of papers the costs of
        making copies of any materials where the copies are
        necessarily obtained for use in the case...


PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

        On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
Case Management, the Judicial Conference agreed to take the following
actions with regard to places of holding court:

$       Northern District of Indiana. Rescind its March 1993 endorsement of
        legislation to amend 28 U.S.C. ' 94(a) to alter the name and
        composition of one of the divisions of the Northern District of Indiana
        (see JCUS-MAR 93, p. 10). The Northern District of Indiana advised
        the Committee that the provision was no longer necessary.

$       Western District of Tennessee. At the request of the Western District
        of Tennessee and the Sixth Circuit Judicial Council, seek legislation

                                                10
                                                                                         March 18, 2

           amending 28 U.S.C. ' 123(c) to transfer Dyer County from the
           Western Division to the Eastern Division of the Western District of
           Tennessee.
    $      Eastern District of Texas/Western District of Arkansas. At the request
           of the Eastern District of Texas and the Western District of Arkansas,
           as well as the Fifth and Eighth Circuit Judicial Councils, seek
           amendments to 28 U.S.C. '' 83(b) and 124(c) to provide that court for
           the Eastern District of Texas and the Western District of Arkansas may
           be held anywhere in the federal courthouse that sits astride the Texas-
           Arkansas state line.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
    reported that it considered a wide array of issues, including the current
    initiative to identify and assess efficient structural options for the delivery of
    administrative services to the courts; ongoing efforts to clarify the exemption
    policy set forth in the Judicial Conference=s fee schedule for electronic public
    access to court records; and steps being taken to implement the Judicial
    Conference=s privacy policy for electronic public access to court records and
    to determine the impact Public Law No. 107-347, the E-Government Act, will
    have on such implementation.


COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
    PRESENTENCE INVESTIGATION REPORT MONOGRAPH

            On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial
    Conference approved revisions to the Presentence Investigation Report for
    Defendants Sentenced Under the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, Publication
    107, for publication and distribution to the courts. The revisions are intended
    to provide probation officers with better guidance on issues related to the
    format and content of the presentence report and the manner in which the
    presentence investigation should be conducted. In addition, technical
    revisions were made to reflect changes in case law, legislation, sentencing
    guidelines, or policy.


    POST-CONVICTION SUPERVISION MONOGRAPH

                                                     11
    Judicial Conference of the United States


            On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial
    Conference approved revisions to the Supervision of Federal Offenders,
    Monograph 109, for publication and distribution to the courts. The revisions
    reflect changes in statutes, case law, policies, and population trends, and
    incorporate Abest practice@ findings from research and other sources.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Criminal Law Committee reported that it was briefed on the
    practices of the Bureau of Prisons with regard to redisclosure of presentence
    investigation reports provided to the Bureau by probation officers to assist in
    inmate classification and designation decisions. The Committee learned that
    the Department of Justice (DOJ) intends to draft DOJ-wide policies and
    procedures concerning the handling of presentence investigation reports in
    view of their confidential nature, and the Committee agreed to wait for this
    policy before proceeding further. The Committee also received reports on
    actions taken to implement the recommendations of a home confinement
    program review and on the results of surveys sent to court unit executives
    examining sharing of administrative functions in the courts. The Committee
    endorsed efforts of the Committee on Judicial Resources to reestablish a
    methods analysis program to explore more effective ways of incorporating
    Abetter practices@ into the staffing requirements process.


COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
    COMPUTER-ASSISTED LEGAL RESEARCH

            The Committee on Defender Services considered modifications to
    paragraphs 2.27, 2.31, and 3.15 of the Guidelines for the Administration of the
    Criminal Justice Act (CJA) and Related Statutes, Guide to Judiciary Policies
    and Procedures, Volume VII, that would simplify and expedite procedures for
    reimbursing CJA panel attorneys for expenses incurred in conducting
    computer-assisted legal research. Under these proposed modifications, panel
    attorney costs in conducting computer research during the course of a CJA
    representation would be treated more like other reimbursable expenses under
    existing CJA Guideline 2.27, which provides that Aout-of-pocket expenses
    reasonably incurred may be claimed on the voucher, and must be itemized and
    reasonably documented.@ Claims in excess of $500 would have to be
    accompanied by a brief statement of explanation from the attorney. In order

                                                    12
                                                                        March 18, 2

to assess the potential budgetary impact of these new procedures, the
Committee




                                               13
    Judicial Conference of the United States

    recommended, and the Conference approved, a pilot program for up to
    18 months whereby up to six courts would utilize the modified version of the
    Guidelines.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Defender Services reported that it was briefed on
    the status of the Defender Services appropriation and considered ways in
    which a projected shortfall might be addressed. In addition, it received a
    report on activities of the Committee on International Judicial Relations
    relating to defender services in other countries, and designated the Chair of
    the Defender Services Committee to serve as liaison to the International
    Judicial Relations Committee. The Committee was also briefed on long-range
    planning activities for the CJA program and approved revisions to its Outline
    of the Defender Services Program Strategic Plan. Under its delegated
    authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR 89, pp. 16-17), the
    Defender Services Committee approved $596,700 to fund two new
    community defender organization branch offices, and $852,500 for capital
    habeas corpus representations for two federal defender organizations, subject
    to the availability of FY 2003 funds.


COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
    CLASS ACTION LEGISLATION

            In 1999, the Judicial Conference expressed its opposition to legislation
    then pending in the 106th Congress that would have expanded federal
    jurisdiction over class action litigation by permitting, through the use of
    minimal diversity of citizenship, the initial filing in or removal to federal
    court of almost all such actions now brought in state court (JCUS-SEP 99, p.
    45). Concern had been expressed that such legislation was inconsistent with
    principles of federalism and would add substantially to the workload of the
    federal courts. Similar legislation was introduced in the 107th Congress and is
    now pending in the 108th Congress. After discussing the problems created by
    certain class actions, and possible solutions that would be less intrusive and
    burdensome than the proposed legislation, and after extensive discussions
    with the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, the Committee on
    Federal-State Jurisdiction, with the concurrence of the Rules Committee,
    recommended the following resolution:


                                                    14
                                                                            March 18, 2

       The Judicial Conference recognizes that the use of minimal
       diversity of citizenship may be appropriate to the
       maintenance of significant multi-state class action litigation
       in the federal courts, while continuing to oppose class
       action legislation that contains jurisdictional provisions
       that are similar to those in the bills introduced in the 106th
       and 107th Congresses. If Congress determines that certain
       class actions should be brought within the original and
       removal jurisdiction of the federal courts on the basis of
       minimal diversity of citizenship and an aggregation of
       claims, Congress should be encouraged to include sufficient
       limitations and threshold requirements so that federal
       courts are not unduly burdened and states= jurisdiction
       over in-state class actions is left undisturbed, such as by
       employing provisions to raise the jurisdictional threshold
       and to fashion exceptions to such jurisdiction that would
       preserve a role for the state courts in the handling of in-
       state class actions. Such exceptions for in-state class
       actions may appropriately include such factors as whether
       substantially all members of the class are citizens of a single
       state, the relationship of the defendants to the forum state,
       or whether the claims arise from death, personal injury, or
       physical property damage within the state. Further, the
       Conference should continue to explore additional
       approaches to the consolidation and coordination of
       overlapping or duplicative class actions that do not unduly
       intrude on state courts or burden federal courts.

After discussion, the Judicial Conference unanimously adopted the
Committee=s recommendation.


COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

       The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it
continued its review of possible statutory amendments governing removal
and remand to address particular problems that have arisen in federal
court. Those proposals are being shared with selected individuals to
obtain comments prior to the Committee=s June 2003 meeting. In
addition, the Committee discussed anticipated legislation regarding
asbestos litigation and the implementation of its five initiatives to
promote state-federal judicial education, including the website developed


                                              15
    Judicial Conference of the United States

    in conjunction with, and maintained by, the Federal Judicial Center to
    list state-federal judicial education programs.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

           The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of
    December 31, 2002, the Committee had received 3,738 financial
    disclosure reports and certifications for the calendar year 2001, including
    1,277 reports and certifications from Supreme Court justices, Article III
    judges, and judicial officers of special courts; 345 from bankruptcy
    judges; 523 from magistrate judges; and 1,593 from judicial employees.


COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
    LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

           Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. ' 612 and on recommendation of the
    Committee on Information Technology, the Judicial Conference approved
    a 2003 update to the Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the
    Federal Judiciary. Funds for the judiciary=s information technology
    program will be spent in accordance with this plan.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Information Technology reported that it discussed
    the progress of an analysis to identify and examine all costs associated with
    the use of information technology in the judiciary (including personnel and
    facilities costs), ratified the selection of a server replacement platform for
    national software applications, and urged that efforts to define an enterprise-
    wide information technology architecture for the judiciary be expedited. The
    Committee also received a summary report on implementation of the policy,
    approved by the Judicial Conference in September 2002, governing personal
    use of government office equipment and the courts= methods of enforcing that
    policy.




                                                    16
                                                                                March 18, 2003

COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the
    period from July 1, 2002, to December 31, 2002, a total of 102 intercircuit
    assignments, undertaken by 70 Article III judges, were processed and
    recommended by the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments and approved by
    the Chief Justice. During calendar year 2002, a total of 210 intercircuit
    assignments were processed and approved, a 27 percent increase over 2001.
    In addition, the Committee aided courts requesting assistance by both
    identifying and obtaining judges willing to take assignments. The Committee
    implemented several changes related to its functions and responsibilities,
    including its procedures used to process requests for intercircuit assignments.


COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

           The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
    involvement in rule-of-law and judicial reform activities throughout the
    world, highlighting those in the Russian Federation, Albania, China,
    India, Rwanda, Serbia, and Turkey. In recognition of increasing
    international interest in the United States system of defender services, the
    Committees on Defender Services and International Judicial Relations
    intend to collaborate on providing guidance and information to national
    and international organizations on the development of defender services
    systems and programs. The Committee also urged the Administrative
    Office to assume expeditiously ongoing responsibility for the database of
    federal judges, court administrators, and defenders interested in assisting
    foreign judiciaries, which was developed by the Federal Judicial Center
    at the Committee=s request.


COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
    DEATH BENEFITS FOR ARTICLE III JUDGES

           Judges= survivors, unlike the survivors of other federal employees,
    receive no survivor benefit protection unless the judge elects to

                                           17
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      participate in the Judicial Survivors= Annuities System. On
                      recommendation of the Judicial Branch Committee, the Judicial
                      Conference endorsed the concept, proposed by the Director of the Office
                      of Personnel Management, of a government-funded, lump-sum death
                      benefit for Article III judges= survivors, modeled after the Public Safety
                      Officers= Benefit Program.


                      TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES
                      JUSTICES AND JUDGES

                              Maximum Meals and Incidental Expenses Rate. In order to cover
                      fully the cost of judges= travel expenses and maintain parity with the
                      executive branch, the Committee on the Judicial Branch recommended
                      an increase from $46 to $50 in the judges= Meals and Incidental Expenses
                      rate (where expenses are not itemized) provided for in sections E.4.a.,
                      E.4.b.(1), and E.4.c. of the Travel Regulations for United States Justices
                      and Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, Vol. III-A, ch.
                      C.V. The Judicial Conference approved the recommendation.

                              Ceremonial Travel. Under the judges= travel regulations, travel
                      expenses to attend memorial services, funerals, portrait hangings, and
                      groundbreaking ceremonies have generally not been reimbursable as an
                      official travel expense, although a chief judge could designate one judge to
                      represent the court at such events and his or her expenses would be
                      reimbursed. Recognizing the importance of ceremonial events for court
                      morale and public communication, the Committee on the Judicial Branch
                      recommended, and the Conference approved, an amendment to the judges=
                      travel regulations to allow a chief judge to authorize reimbursable travel by
                      more than one judge from the court to memorial services, funerals, portrait
                      hangings, and courthouse groundbreaking and dedication ceremonies.

                             Senior Judges= Commuting-Type Expenses. On recommendation
                      of the Committee, the Conference approved an amendment to the Travel
                      Regulations for United States Justices and Judges to clarify that
                      reimbursement of transportation expenses for senior judges who
                      commute between their homes and the courthouse should be limited to
                      the commuted mileage or public mass transit fare rate, absent the
                      approval of the circuit judicial council.




                                                         18
                                                                               March 18, 2003



    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it continues to
    pursue vigorously meaningful salary relief for judges. In recent months, the
    Committee has sought to focus the attention of the political branches, the
    media, and legal associations on the findings and recommendations of the
    National Commission on the Public Service, commonly known as Athe
    Volcker Commission,@ which concluded that Ajudicial salaries are the most
    egregious example of the failure of federal compensation policies@ and
    recommended that Congress grant an immediate and significant increase in
    such salaries. The Committee also gave substantial attention to judicial
    benefits matters, including the status of the judiciary benefits initiative and
    judicial survivors= benefits.


COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
    ARTICLE III JUDGESHIP NEEDS

             Additional Judgeships. Utilizing established standards and
    criteria, the Committee on Judicial Resources considered requests and
    justifications for additional judgeships in the courts of appeals and the
    district courts as part of its 2003 biennial judgeship survey process.
    Based on its review, and after considering the comments of the courts and the
    circuit councils, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference
    authorize the Administrative Office to transmit to Congress a request for an
    additional nine permanent and two temporary judgeships in the courts of
    appeals, an additional 29 permanent and 17 temporary judgeships in the
    district courts, and conversion to permanent status of five existing temporary
    judgeships in the district courts. The Committee also recommended that the
    temporary judgeships be established for a term of ten years from the date of
    confirmation, under the same terms recently established by the Congress in
    the 21st Century Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act
    (Public Law No. 107-273). The Conference approved the recommendations,
    agreeing to transmit the following requests to Congress in lieu of any
    previously submitted Article III judgeship requests (AP@ denotes permanent;
    AT@ denotes temporary):




                                               19
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      Courts of Appeals

                      First Circuit            1P
                      Second Circuit                     2P
                      Sixth Circuit            1P
                      Ninth Circuit            5P, 2T

                      District Courts

                      New York (Eastern)       3P, 1T
                      New York (Western)       1T
                      South Carolina           1P
                      Virginia (Eastern)       2P
                      Illinois (Northern)      1T
                      Indiana (Northern)       1T
                      Indiana (Southern)       1T
                      Iowa (Northern)          1T
                      Missouri (Eastern)       Convert 1T to P
                      Missouri (Western)       1P
                      Nebraska                 Convert 1T to P
                      Arizona                  3P
                      California (Northern)           1P, 1T
                      California (Eastern)     3P, Convert 1T to P
                      California (Central)     1P, 2T
                      California (Southern)           2P, 3T
                      Hawaii                          Convert 1T to P
                      Idaho                    1T
                      Oregon                          1P
                      Washington (Western)     1P
                      Colorado                 1T
                      Kansas                          Convert 1T to P
                      New Mexico               2P, 1T
                      Utah                     1T
                      Alabama (Northern)       1P
                      Alabama (Middle)         1P
                      Florida (Middle)         2P, 1T
                      Florida (Southern)       4P

                    Judgeship Vacancies. As part of the biennial survey of judgeship
             needs, workloads in district and appellate courts with low weighted
             caseloads are reviewed for the purpose of determining whether to
             recommend that an existing or future judgeship vacancy not be filled. In


                                                    20
                                                                     March 18, 2003

March 1999, and again in March 2001, the District Court for the District
of Columbia was among those courts in which the Judicial Conference
recommended that the next vacancy not be filled (JCUS-MAR 99, pp. 22-
23; JCUS-MAR 01, pp. 24-25). Based on new information presented
during the 2003 biennial survey indicating that the court was facing
singular and burdensome challenges, the Committee recommended that
the Judicial Conference amend its March 2001 position, and delete the
District Court for the District of Columbia from the list of courts in
which a vacancy should not be filled. The Conference adopted the
Committee=s recommendation, and thus, only the District Court for the
District of Wyoming remains on the list of courts in which a vacancy
should not be filled. Also, on recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference agreed that the request of the District of Columbia District
Court to be exempted from the biennial judgeship survey because of the
unusual nature of its caseload be denied, as such an exemption would
undermine the reasoned and consistent process adopted by the
Conference for identifying judgeship needs.


JUDGE-SPECIFIC DATA

        Judicial Conference policy prohibits the Administrative Office from
releasing judge-identifying information from statistical databases, except
to the extent required by law (JCUS-MAR 95, pp. 21-22). On
recommendation of the Committee, in the wake of recent requests for
court information, the Conference reaffirmed its current policy against
the release of judge-specific data, except to the extent required by law.


JUDGE=S NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE IN STATUS

        In order to help reduce delays in filling judicial vacancies, in
September 1995, as part of the Long Range Plan for the Federal Courts,
the Judicial Conference adopted language encouraging retiring judges and
those taking senior status to provide substantial (i.e., six-month or one-
year) advance notice of that action (JCUS-SEP 95, p. 56). This position
modified slightly a similar position adopted in March 1988 (see JCUS-
MAR 88, pp. 31-32). At this session, in order to ensure that the judiciary
has taken all reasonable steps to avert or ameliorate any vacancy crisis,
the Committee on Judicial Resources recommended that the Conference
clarify and strengthen its policy on advance notification of a change in
status by a judge by adopting the following language:

                                       21
Judicial Conference of the United States


                      The Judicial Conference strongly urges all judges to notify
                      the President and the Administrative Office of the United
                      States Courts as far in advance as possible of a change in
                      status, preferably 12 months before the contemplated date
                      of change in status.

              The Conference adopted the Committee=s recommendation.


             SALARY MATCHING/ADVANCED IN-STEP POLICY

                     On recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, the Judicial
             Conference agreed to amend the judiciary=s Asalary matching/advanced
             in-step@ policy to eliminate the 90-day break in federal government
             service rule for applicants from outside the judiciary for Court Personnel
             System (CPS) positions. That rule required a break in federal
             government service of at least 90 days before a prospective applicant for
             a CPS position was eligible to be appointed at a level above the first step
             of the classification level for which the applicant qualified. Revocation of
             the 90-day rule will give court managers the same compensation
             flexibility they currently have for non-government applicants, and will
             provide them with an additional management tool to assist in recruiting
             top-quality, non-judiciary government applicants.


             COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                     The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it endorsed the
             granting of annual employment cost index increases in salary to court
             employees, consistent with executive branch employees in terms of amount
             and timing. The Committee resolved to support a study to identify and assess
             cost-effective and efficient structural options for the delivery of administrative
             support services to the courts, with the understanding that the study address
             the following: (1) prioritizing fairly the needs of all units; (2) maintaining
             quality services; (3) quantifying the offsetting costs entailed by measures
             designed to achieve savings; (4) documenting who pays for centralized work
             and who reaps the savings; and (5) formalizing service delivery agreements.
             Also, the Committee approved reestablishing a methods analysis program to
             explore with courts more effective ways to incorporate Abetter practices@ into
             the staffing requirements process.



                                                        22
                                                                               March 18, 2003



COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

    CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

            After consideration of the report of the Committee on the
    Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of
    the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial
    councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the following
    changes in positions, salaries, locations, and arrangements for full-time and
    part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact are to
    be effective when appropriated funds are available.

    FIRST CIRCUIT

    District of Maine

           Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
           the magistrate judge positions in the district.

    SECOND CIRCUIT

    Southern District of New York

           Redesignated as Middletown the part-time magistrate judge position
           previously designated as Newburgh.

    Western District of New York

           Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
           magistrate judge positions in the district.

    FOURTH CIRCUIT

    Northern District of West Virginia

           Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
           Martinsburg from Level 4 ($35,854 per annum) to Level 3 ($47,805
           per annum).



                                               23
Judicial Conference of the United States


             SIXTH CIRCUIT

             Western District of Michigan

                      Redesignated as Grand Rapids the magistrate judge position
                      previously designated as Kalamazoo.

             SEVENTH CIRCUIT

             Southern District of Illinois

                      Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                      magistrate judge positions in the district.

             Southern District of Indiana

             1.       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at New
                      Albany from Level 7 ($5,974 per annum) to Level 6 ($11,951 per
                      annum); and

             2.       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                      the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

             Western District of Wisconsin

                      Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                      magistrate judge positions in the district.

             NINTH CIRCUIT

             Eastern District of California

             1.       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Redding to full-
                      time status;

             2.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at South Lake
                      Tahoe; and

             3.       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
                      magistrate judge positions in the district.


             TENTH CIRCUIT
                                                        24
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                         Ma



             District of Colorado

             1.       Authorized a part-time magistrate judge position at Durango at Level 4
                      ($35,854 per annum);

             2.       Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                      Grand Junction from Level 2 ($59,757 per annum) to Level 3 ($47,805
                      per annum) upon the appointment of a new part-time magistrate judge
                      at Durango; and

             3.       Made no change in the number, location, or arrangements of the other
                      magistrate judge positions in the district.

             District of Wyoming

             1.       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Green
                      River from Level 8 ($3,584 per annum) to Level 7 ($5,974 per
                      annum); and

             2.       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                      the other magistrate judge positions in the district.


             COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                     The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges
             System reported that it reviewed proposed rules changes being considered by
             the Advisory Committee on Criminal Rules and (a) endorsed promulgation of
             a new criminal rule that would establish procedures for both non-case-
             dispositive and case-dispositive matters in felony cases referred to magistrate
             judges; (b) endorsed inclusion of waiver language in the new rule, provided
             that the new provision would retain a district judge=s discretionary authority to
             review a magistrate judge=s ruling sua sponte or at the request of a party,
             regardless of whether timely objections have been filed; and (c) disagreed
             with the proposal that acceptance of guilty pleas in felony cases be specified
             as case-dispositive matters. These views were communicated to the Advisory
             Committee.




                                                        25
COMMITTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability
    Orders reported that it is monitoring the status of Spargo v. New York State
    Commission on Judicial Conduct, 244 F.Supp. 2d 72 (N.D.N.Y. 2003). That
    ruling strikes down, as an impermissible prior restraint under the First
    Amendment, discipline of a New York state judge based on his alleged
    violation of provisions of the New York Code of Judicial Conduct restricting
    New York state judges= political activities (apart from their own campaigns
    for judicial office). The court also found that generally-worded provisions of
    the New York Code (such as the provision that a judge should act at all times
    in a manner that promotes public confidence in the integrity and impartiality
    of the judiciary) were too vague to support discipline for activity otherwise
    protected by the First Amendment.


COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure approved for
    publication proposed amendments to Rule 4008 of the Federal Rules of
    Bankruptcy Procedure, which would establish a deadline for filing a
    reaffirmation agreement. The Committee also approved for publication
    proposed amendments to Rules B and C of the Supplemental Rules for Certain
    Admiralty and Maritime Claims. These proposed amendments are modest
    and technical in nature. The Advisory Committees on Bankruptcy, Criminal,
    and Evidence Rules are reviewing comments from the public submitted on
    amendments proposed in August 2002 to their respective sets of rules. The
    Committee also received the report of its Local Rules Project and referred it to
    the committees= reporters for their review.




                                      26
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                                  Ma


             COMMITTEE ON SECURITY AND FACILITIES
                     COURTROOM SECURITY

                             In 1984, the Conference authorized the presence of a deputy United
                     States marshal in the courtroom based on four levels of anticipated risk set
                     forth in the report of the Attorney General=s Task Force on Court Security
                     (JCUS-SEP 84, pp. 48-49), and in 1985 the Conference authorized, with some
                     qualifications, the use of court security officers in the courtroom in low-risk
                     proceedings that do not warrant the presence of a deputy marshal under the
                     Attorney General=s risk criteria mentioned above (JCUS-SEP 85, pp. 45-46).
                     After soliciting comments from the judicial community, the Committee on
                     Security and Facilities recommended that the Conference amend its 1984
                     and 1985 policies both to enhance security in the courtroom and to
                     recognize the overarching statutory authority of judges to order the level
                     of security necessary in a particular proceeding. After discussion, the
                     Conference slightly modified and then adopted the Committee=s
                     recommendations toC

                     a.       Amend Judicial Conference policy on courtroom security to require:


                              (1) A deputy marshal in the courtroom during all criminal
                              proceedings in which a defendant is present, including criminal
                              proceedings before magistrate judges, unless the presiding judge
                              determines one is not required; and

                              (2) A court security officer in all civil proceedings in which a party is
                              present, including bankruptcy proceedings, upon the determination of
                              the presiding judge; and

                     b.       Affirm, notwithstanding the policies established above, that the
                              presiding judge may determine the level of security necessary in a
                              particular proceeding pursuant to 28 U.S.C. ' 566.


                     FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

                             After considering comments from courts and the circuit judicial
                     councils, the Committee on Security and Facilities recommended, and the
                     Judicial Conference approved, a five-year plan for courthouse construction

                                                           27
      projects, which prioritizes in score order the judiciary=s housing needs for
      the fiscal years 2004-2008. With regard to projects planned for FY 2004,
      funding is requested only for those projects that will be ready for contract
      award in that year.


      HOMELAND SECURITY LEGISLATION

             To address concerns that legislation pending in the 107th Congress
      to create the Department of Homeland Security could impinge upon the
      authorities of the agencies responsible for the judiciary=s security, the
      Committee on Security and Facilities recommended that the Judicial
      Conference seek two amendments to the proposed legislation. The first
      amendment would have ensured that creation of the Department of
      Homeland Security did not affect the security arrangements for the Third
      Branch, and the second would have strengthened judicial security by
      giving the judiciary the statutory authority to determine its own security
      arrangements. The Conference adopted the Committee=s recommendation
      by mail ballot concluded on November 6, 2002.1


      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

              The Committee on Security and Facilities reported that it was
      briefed on the development of an orientation program for chief judges
      intended to heighten security awareness and re-emphasize the importance
      of active court security committees in each district. The Committee also
      considered a study concerning application of the U.S. Courts Design Guide
      standards to renovation and alteration projects, and discussed the need
      for a supplementary manual for such projects. In addition, the
      Committee discussed results of an analysis of well size in the courtroom
      and agreed that the judiciary should focus on flexible ways to provide
      more space in the courtroom well such as installing movable spectator

1
 Congress failed to include these provision in the legislation, which was enacted on
November 25, 2002 (see Public Law No. 107-296).




                                         28
                                                                March 18, 2003


rails and seats, using only two-tiered jury boxes, and adopting efficient
wheelchair ramp designs to serve the judge=s bench and witness boxes.




                                  29
Judicial Conference of the United States


             FUNDING
                             All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure
                      of funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference
                      subject to the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the
                      Conference might establish for the use of available resources.




                                                               Chief Justice of the United
                      States
                                                               Presiding




                                                     30
                                                                         March 18, 2003

INDEX

Administrative Office, Committee on the, 7

Administrative Office of the U. S. Courts
     budget guidance, 5, 7
     changes in magistrate judge positions, 22
     database for assisting foreign judiciaries, 16
     judge=s notification of change in status, 21
     judgeship request to Congress, 18-19
     judge-specific data, release, 20
     retirement regulations for bankruptcy and magistrates judges, amendment, 6, 8

Appropriations
     bill, FY 2003
         Chief Justice appeal letter, 5
         107th Congress, failure to pass, 5
     budget crisis, 5
     budget request adjustment, FY 2004, 5
     Court Security account, 5
     defender organization funding, 13
     Defender Services account, 5
     Fees of Jurors and Commissioners account, 5
     financial plans, FY 2003, 5
     Salaries and Expenses account, 5
     Salaries and Expenses account, limitations on FY 2003 spending, 5

Attorney General=s Task Force on Court Security, 26

Automation (see information technology)

Automation and Technology, Committee on (see Committee on Information
Technology)

Bankruptcy judges (see judges, bankruptcy)

Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994, 7

Bankruptcy rules (see rules of practice and procedure)




                                           i
Judicial Conference of the United States

Bankruptcy system (see also judges, bankruptcy)
     fees, uniform percentage adjustment, 7-8
     miscellaneous fees, review, 8
     Subcommittee on Mass Torts report released, 6

Bankruptcy System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 6, 7-8

Benefits
       death benefits, Article III judges, 16-17

Budget (see appropriations)

Budget, Committee on the, 5, 8-9

Case management (see court administration)

Case management/electronic case files (CM/ECF), 8

Castillo, Ruben, 4

Chief judges (see judges, chief)

Circuit councils (see circuit judicial councils)

Circuit judges (see judges, circuit)

Circuit judicial councils
       changes in magistrate judge positions, 22
       Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 26
       judgeships, 18
       senior judges= commuting-type expenses, 17

Class action legislation, 13-14

CM/ECF (see case management/electronic case files)

Codes of Conduct, Committee on, 9

Community defender organizations (see defender services)

Compensation

                                             ii
                                                                     March 18, 2003
       employment cost index salary increase, 21
       judicial, 18
       part-time magistrate judge, 6
       salary matching/advanced in-step policy, 21

Computer-assisted legal research, 12-13

Conduct and Disability Orders, Committee to Review
Circuit Council, 25

Congress (see also legislation, pending)
      bankruptcy fees, uniform percentage adjustment, 7-8
      class action legislation, 13-14
      federal courts improvement bill, 4
      FY 2003 appropriations bill, 5
         Chief Justice appeal letter, 5
      homeland security legislation, 27
      judgeships, Article III, 18-19
      judgeship vacancies, 19-20
      judicial compensation, 18
      U.S. Sentencing Commission appointments, 4

Court administration
      administrative support services, 7, 8, 11, 12, 21
      better practices, 8, 12, 21
      case management/electronic case files systems, 8
      costs taxable to litigants, 9-10
      fees, court technology, 9-10
      judge-specific data, 20
      methods analysis program (MAP), 8, 12, 21
      places of holding court, 10-11

Court Administration and Case Management, Committee on, 6, 7, 9-11

Court Personnel System, 21

Court Registry Investment System (CRIS), 8

Courthouses (see space and facilities)


Courtrooms
      security, 26

                                          iii
Judicial Conference of the United States



Courts of appeals (see also court administration)
      judgeships, 18-19

Criminal Justice Act (CJA) (see also defender services)
      Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act, 12-13
      panel attorney reimbursement for computer-assisted legal research, 12-13

Criminal law (see also probation and pretrial services system)
      post-conviction supervision monograph, 11-12
      presentence investigation report monograph, 11
      presentence investigation reports redisclosure, 12
      rules of practice and procedure, 24

Criminal Law, Committee on, 11-12

Criminal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Criminal Rules, Advisory Committee on, 24, 25

Defender services (see also Criminal Justice Act)
      CJA panel attorney reimbursement, computer-assisted legal research, 12-13
      defender organization funding, 13

Defender Services, Committee on, 12-13, 16

Department of Commerce
      National Telecommunications and Information Administration, 6

Department of Homeland Security, 27

Department of Justice, 12
      Attorney General=s Task Force on Court Security, 26
      deputy United States marshals, 26

Design Guide (see U.S. Courts Design Guide)

Director of the Administrative Office (see Administrative Office)

District courts (see also bankruptcy system; court administration; magistrate judges
system; probation and pretrial services system)
       additional judgeships, 18-19

                                           iv
                                                                      March 18, 2003
       changes in magistrate judge positions, 22-24
       judgeship vacancies, 19-20

District judges (see judges, district)

Diversity jurisdiction, 13-14

E-Government Act, 6, 11

Electronic public access (EPA)
       case management/electronic case files (CM/ECF), 8
       E-Government Act, 6, 11

Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act
       court documents exception, 6

Employment Cost Index (ECI), 21

Executive branch
      Bureau of Prisons, 12
      Department of Commerce, 6
      Department of Homeland Security, 27
      Department of Justice, 12
      deputy United States marshals, 26
      National Telecommunications and Information Administration, 6
      Office of Personnel Management, 17
      President, 4, 7, 21

Executive Committee, 4-6

Federal courts improvement bill, 4

Federal defenders (see defender services)

Federal Judicial Center, 4, 14, 16

Federal Law Clerk Information System, 6

Federal public defender organizations (see defender services)
Federal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Federalization
      class actions, 13-14

                                            v
Judicial Conference of the United States




Federal-State Jurisdiction, Committee on, 13-14

Federal-state relations
      class action legislation, 13-14
      judicial education programs, 14

Fees
        bankruptcy, uniform percentage adjustment, 7-8
        court technology, 9-10
        miscellaneous, review, 8

Financial Disclosure, Committee on, 15

Financial disclosure reports
      filed, 15

Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 26-27

Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, 9, 12, 17

Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal
Justice Act and Related Statutes, 12-13

Hamilton, Jean C., 4

Information technology (see also electronic public access)
      case management/electronic case files (CM/ECF), 8
      E-Government Act implementation, 6, 11
      Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, 6
      Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the Federal Judiciary, 15

Information Technology, Committee on, 6, 8, 15

Intercircuit assignments, 16

Intercircuit Assignments, Committee on, 16
International Judicial Relations, Committee on, 13, 16

Judges, Article III (see also judges, federal)
      death benefits, 16-17


                                            vi
                                                                              March 18, 2003

       intercircuit assignments, 16
       notification of change in status, 20-21
       senior judges= commuting-type expenses, 17

Judges, bankruptcy (see also bankruptcy system; judges, chief; judges, federal)
      retired, practice of law, 8

Judges, chief
      ceremonial travel approval, 17
      security awareness, 27

Judges, circuit (see judges, Article III; judges, chief; judges, federal)

Judges, Court of Federal Claims (see judges, federal)

Judges, district (see judges, Article III; judges, chief; judges, federal)

Judges, federal (see also judges, Article III; judges, bankruptcy; judges, chief; judges,
magistrate)
       ceremonial travel, 17
       compensation, 18
       financial disclosure reports, 15
       judge-specific data, release, 20
       security in the courtroom, 26
       subpoenas to judges/judiciary employees, 9
       travel expenses reimbursement, 6, 17
       Travel Regulations for U.S. Justices and Judges, 17

Judges, magistrate (see also judges, federal; magistrate judges system)
      changes in positions, 22-24
      part-time, compensation, 6
      retired, practice of law, 6

Judgeships, Article III
      biennial survey of judgeship needs, 18-20
      courts of appeals, 18-20
      district courts, 18-20

Judgeships, Article III (continued)
       temporary 18-19
       vacancies, 19-20, 20-21



                                             vii
Judicial Conference of the United States


Judicial Branch, Committee on the, 16-18

Judicial Conference of the United States
       funding of actions, 28
       jurisdictional statement, Committee on Judicial Resources, 6

Judicial Resources, Committee on, 6, 12, 18-21

Judicial Survivors= Annuities System, 17

Jurisdiction of Judicial Conference committees (see Judicial Conference
of the United States)

Legislation, pending (108th Congress)
       class actions, 13-14

Legislative branch (see Congress)

Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the Federal Judiciary, 15

Long Range Plan for the Federal Courts, 20

Magistrate judges (see judges, magistrate)

Magistrate judges system (see also judges, magistrate)
      changes in positions, 22-24
      proposed procedures for felony cases, 24

Magistrate Judges System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 6, 22-24

National Commission on the Public Service, 18

Office of Personnel Management, 17

Panel attorneys (see Criminal Justice Act)

Parker, James A., 4

Personnel, judiciary (see also staffing resources)
      employment cost index salary increase, 21


                                             viii
                                                                            March 18, 2003

       financial disclosure reports, 15
       responses to subpoenas, regulations, 9
       salary matching/advanced in-step policy, 21

Places of holding court, 10-11

Presentence Investigation Report For Defendants Sentenced under the
Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, Publication 107, 11

President of the United States, 4, 7, 21

Pretrial services system (see probation and pretrial services system)

Probation and pretrial services officers (see also personnel, judiciary)
      post-conviction supervision, 11-12
      presentence investigation report preparation, 11

Probation and pretrial services system (see also probation and pretrial services officers)
      post-conviction supervision monograph, 11-12
      presentence investigation report monograph, 11

Public Safety Officers= Benefit Program, 17

Records (see also electronic public access)
      judge-specific data, release, 20

Regulations of the Director Implementing the Retirement and Survivors=
Annuities for Bankruptcy Judges and Magistrates Act, 6, 8

Retirement
      bankruptcy judges, practice of law, 8
      magistrate judges, practice of law, 6

Rule of law programs, 16




Rules of practice and procedure
       admiralty and maritime claims, 25
       bankruptcy rules, 25
       criminal rules, 24

                                              ix
Judicial Conference of the United States




Rules of Practice and Procedure, Committee on, 6, 13, 25

Salaries (see compensation)

Security
       Attorney General=s Task Force on Court Security, 26
       court security officers, 26
       courtroom, 26
       deputy United States marshals, 26
       homeland security legislation, 27
       judiciary, authority to determine, 27

Security and Facilities, Committee on, 26-27

Sessions, William K. III, 4

Space and facilities
      Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 26-27

Spargo v. New York State Commission on Judicial Conduct, 25

Staffing resources
       better practices, 8, 12, 21

Subcommittee on Mass Torts, Bankruptcy Committee, 6

Subpoenas to judges/judiciary employees, 9

Supervision of Federal Offenders, Monograph 109, 11-12

Supporting personnel (see personnel, judiciary)

Technology (see information technology)



Travel, judges=
       alternative subsistence rate, 6
       ceremonial travel, 17
       Meals and Incidental Expenses rate, 17


                                           x
                                                                     March 18, 2003

      senior judges= commuting-type expenses, 17
      Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, 17

Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, 17

21st Century Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, 18

United States marshals, deputy, 26

United States Sentencing Commission, 4

U.S. Courts Design Guide, 27

Vance, Sarah S., 4

Volcker Commission (see National Commission on the Public Service)

Yohn, William H. Jr., 4




                                          xi
