R EPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE J UDICIAL C ONFERENCE
OF THE U NITED S TATES


September 15, 2009


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on September 15, 2009, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                     First Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                 Chief Judge Mary M. Lisi,
                                        District of Rhode Island

                     Second Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs
                                 Chief Judge William K. Sessions III,
                                        District of Vermont

                     Third Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Anthony J. Scirica
                                Chief Judge Harvey Bartle III,
                                       Eastern District of Pennsylvania
                     Fourth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.
                                 Chief Judge James P. Jones,
                                        Western District of Virginia

                     Fifth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Edith Hollan Jones
                                 Judge Sim Lake III,
                                        Southern District of Texas
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 15, 2009



                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alice M. Batchelder
                                           Judge Solomon Oliver, Jr.,
                                                  Northern District of Ohio

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook
                                           Judge Wayne R. Andersen,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge James B. Loken
                                           Judge Lawrence L. Piersol,
                                                  District of South Dakota

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Judge Charles R. Breyer,
                                                  Northern District of California

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Robert H. Henry
                                           Judge Alan B. Johnson,
                                                  District of Wyoming

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel F. Dubina
                                           Judge Myron H. Thompson,
                                                  Middle District of Alabama

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge David Bryan Sentelle
                                           Chief Judge Royce C. Lamberth,
                                                  District of Columbia


                                                               2

Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 15, 2009



                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Paul R. Michel

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Jane A. Restani

                              The following Judicial Conference committee chairs attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Bobby R. Baldock, Julia Smith Gibbons,
                       Roger L. Gregory, M. Margaret McKeown, Carl E. Stewart, Richard C.
                       Tallman, and John Walker, Jr., and District Judges Joseph F. Bataillon,
                       Dennis M. Cavanaugh, Claire V. Eagan, Janet C. Hall, Robert L. Hinkle,
                       D. Brock Hornby, Mark R. Kravitz, Barbara M.G. Lynn, J. Frederick Motz,
                       Lee H. Rosenthal, Charles R. Simpson III, George Z. Singal, Laura Taylor
                       Swain, and John R. Tunheim. Bankruptcy Judge David S. Kennedy and
                       Magistrate Judge Robert B. Collings were also in attendance, and Karen
                       Milton of the Second Circuit represented the circuit executives.

                               James C. Duff, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
                       States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill C. Sayenga,
                       Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General
                       Counsel; Laura C. Minor, Assistant Director, and Wendy Jennis, Deputy
                       Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Cordia
                       A. Strom, Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; and David A. Sellers,
                       Assistant Director, Public Affairs. District Judge Barbara Jacobs Rothstein,
                       Director, and John S. Cooke, Deputy Director, Federal Judicial Center, and
                       District Judge Ricardo H. Hinojosa, Acting Chair, and Kenneth P. Cohen,
                       General Counsel, United States Sentencing Commission, were in attendance at
                       the session of the Conference, as was Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to the
                       Chief Justice. The 2009-2010 Supreme Court Fellows also observed the
                       Conference proceedings.

                               Attorney General Eric Holder addressed the Conference on matters of
                       mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice. Senators
                       Patrick Leahy, Jeff Sessions, and Sheldon Whitehouse and Representatives
                       John Conyers, Jr., and Lamar S. Smith spoke on matters pending in Congress
                       of interest to the Conference.




                                                                3

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 15, 2009



             R EPORTS
                              Mr. Duff reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                      courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge
                      Rothstein spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC)
                      programs, and Judge Hinojosa reported on United States Sentencing
                      Commission activities. Judge Gibbons, Chair of the Committee on the
                      Budget, presented a report on judiciary appropriations and other budget
                      matters.


             E XECUTIVE C OMMITTEE

                      RESOLUTION

                              The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
                      Committee to adopt the following resolution recognizing the substantial
                      contributions made by the Judicial Conference committee chairs whose terms
                      of service end in 2009:

                                    The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
                               with appreciation, respect, and admiration the following
                               judicial officers:

                                            HONORABLE ROGER L. GREGORY
                                             Committee on the Administrative Office

                                         HONORABLE JOHN R. TUNHEIM
                                 Committee on Court Administration and Case Management

                                     HONORABLE DENNIS M. CAVANAUGH
                             Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System

                                            HONORABLE CARL E. STEWART
                                            Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules

                                           HONORABLE JOSEPH F. BATAILLON
                                              Committee on Space and Facilities




                                                              4

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 15, 2009



                                     Appointed as committee chairs by the Chief Justice of the
                                United States, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role
                                in the administration of the federal court system. These judges
                                served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference
                                committees while, at the same time, continuing to perform their
                                duties as judges in their own courts. They have set a standard
                                of skilled leadership and earned our deep respect and sincere
                                gratitude for their innumerable contributions. We acknowledge
                                with appreciation their commitment and dedicated service to
                                the Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.


                       UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION

                                The Executive Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference
                       approved by mail ballot, the following names of judges for presentation to the
                       President for appointment, subject to the advice and consent of the Senate, to
                       fill current and upcoming vacancies on the United States Sentencing
                       Commission: Charles R. Breyer, Northern District of California; Claire V.
                       Eagan, Northern District of Oklahoma; Ricardo S. Martinez, Western District
                       of Washington; Lawrence L. Piersol, District of South Dakota; Patti D. Saris,
                       District of Massachusetts; and Lawrence S. Stengel, Eastern District of
                       Pennsylvania.


                       MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                                The Executive Committee —

                       •        On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
                                Case Management and the Committee on Information Technology and
                                on behalf of the Conference, approved an annual report to Congress on
                                court compliance with section 205 of the E-Government Act of 2002,
                                authorized transmittal of that report to Congress as specified in the
                                Act, and, because all courts are now in compliance with section 205,
                                agreed that this would be the final report made to Congress under
                                section 205;

                       •        Pending final congressional action on the judiciary’s appropriations for
                                the next fiscal year, approved fiscal year 2010 interim financial plans
                                for the Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Court Security, and

                                                               5

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                             September 15, 2009



                               Fees of Jurors and Commissioners accounts, and endorsed a strategy
                               for distributing court allotments among the court programs;

                      •	       Declined a request for an exception to Section B.3.a.(4) of the Travel
                               Regulations for United States Justices and Judges to allow
                               reimbursement of travel expenses for a magistrate judge from the
                               Southern District of Florida to travel to Amsterdam, the Netherlands,
                               to preside over depositions in a multiditrict litigation proceeding
                               pending before him;

                      •	       On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
                               Case Management, approved on behalf of the Conference a request
                               from the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation that electronic
                               public access (EPA) fees established pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1932 be
                               waived temporarily so that the Panel can provide electronic public
                               access to docket sheets and other information of the Panel while a
                               system for collecting EPA fees is being developed;

                      •	       Approved on behalf of the Conference the pursuit of four additional
                               bankruptcy judgeships, one each in the Southern District of West
                               Virginia, Northern District of Florida, Western District of North
                               Carolina, and Eastern District of California, and the extension of
                               one temporary judgeship in the Middle District of North Carolina,
                               which, when added to those judgeships approved earlier in 2009
                               (JCUS-MAR 09, p. 5), results in a total request to Congress for 13
                               additional bankruptcy judgeships, 22 conversions from temporary to
                               permanent, and two extensions of temporary bankruptcy judgeships;

                      •	       On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
                               Magistrate Judges System, approved on behalf of the Conference, two
                               additional magistrate judge positions (along with associated funding)
                               for the Eastern District of California, one at Sacramento and one at
                               Fresno, to address the unrelenting growth in the district’s prisoner
                               caseload; and

                      •	       Modified the jurisdictional statement of the Committee on the
                               Administrative Office and renamed it the Committee on Audits and
                               Administrative Office Accountability in order to focus its oversight
                               responsibilities on the significant areas of audit, review, and
                               investigative assistance.



                                                              6

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 15, 2009



              C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATIVE O FFICE

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it was
                       briefed on key activities of the AO and actions related to the AO’s strategic
                       plan, including the redesign of the Guide to Judiciary Policies and
                       Procedures, court/AO staff-exchange initiatives, and the status of pandemic
                       and emergency planning for the judiciary and the AO. The Committee was
                       briefed on audit, review, and investigation activities and discussed the
                       Committee’s role regarding the AO’s strategic objective to provide increased
                       support for management review, audit, and internal control programs. After
                       reviewing nominations submitted by judges, court managers, and AO
                       managers, the Committee selected two AO employees to receive the Leonidas
                       Ralph Mecham Award for Exemplary Service to the Courts.


              C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
              OF THE B ANKRUPTCY S YSTEM

                       OFFICIAL DUTY STATION

                               At the request of the Ninth Circuit Judicial Council and on
                       recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy
                       System, the Judicial Conference agreed to transfer the official duty station for
                       the vacant bankruptcy judgeship position in the Eastern District of California
                       from Bakersfield to Sacramento. This change will allow for a more even
                       distribution of the judicial workload among the district’s three divisions.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                       reported that it asked the Executive Committee to take expedited action on
                       behalf of the Judicial Conference to seek four additional bankruptcy
                       judgeships (see supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” pp. 5-6). The Committee
                       also recommended to the Committee on Court Administration and Case
                       Management that it (1) defer a request for consolidation of the district and
                       bankruptcy clerks’ offices in the Southern District of Illinois (see infra,
                       “Committee Activities,” pp. 12-13); (2) forward to the Conference proposed

                                                               7

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 15, 2009



                      amendments to the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule (see infra,
                      “Miscellaneous Fees,” pp. 11-12); and (3) adopt proposed procedural
                      revisions to the bankruptcy noticing guidelines, with certain edits. Pursuant
                      to a March 2009 decision of the Conference to seek legislation authorizing
                      bankruptcy administrators to perform similar duties and powers, as
                      appropriate, to those conferred on the United States trustees by the Bankruptcy
                      Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (JCUS-MAR 09,
                      p. 8), the Committee endorsed specific powers and duties that should be
                      included in such legislation.


             C OMMITTEE ON THE B UDGET

                      FISCAL YEAR 2011 BUDGET REQUEST

                              After careful consideration of the funding levels proposed by the
                      program committees, the Committee on the Budget recommended to the
                      Judicial Conference a fiscal year 2011 budget request to Congress that is
                      5.9 percent above assumed appropriations for fiscal year 2010. This request is
                      consistent with the budget caps approved by the Judicial Conference for the
                      various accounts within the judiciary’s budget. The Conference approved the
                      budget request subject to amendments necessary as a result of (a) new
                      legislation, (b) actions of the Judicial Conference, or (c) any other reason the
                      Executive Committee considers necessary and appropriate.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Budget reported that it endorsed a funding
                      mechanism to provide annual funding to probation and pretrial services offices
                      to support court-ordered services authorized by the Second Chance Act of
                      2007 (Pub. L. No. 110-199) and requested a cost-benefit analysis by the
                      Criminal Law Committee of the use of these funds after three years. The
                      Committee also expressed support for a recommendation of the Criminal Law
                      Committee to assess the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of reentry court
                      programs (see infra, “Reentry Court Programs,” p. 13). In addition,
                      recognizing the ongoing efforts of the Judicial Resources Committee to update
                      the staffing formulas used to calculate court support staffing requirements, the
                      Budget Committee committed to working with both that committee and the
                      Criminal Law Committee to develop formulas that are fair and incorporate the


                                                             8

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 15, 2009



                       workload needs of the courts but that also consider efficiencies associated
                       with information technology improvements, best practices, and other
                       cost-containment initiatives.


              C OMMITTEE ON C ODES OF C ONDUCT

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in March 2009, the Committee received 33
                       new written inquiries and issued 34 written advisory responses. During this
                       period, the average response time for requests was 18 days. In addition, the
                       Committee chair received and responded to 99 informal inquiries from
                       colleagues, and individual Committee members responded to 86 such
                       inquiries.


              C OMMITTEE ON C OURT A DMINISTRATION
              AND C ASE M ANAGEMENT

                       COURTROOM SHARING

                               After comprehensive study of courtroom use in the district courts, in
                       September 2008, the Conference adopted several policy changes with regard
                       to courtroom use to be applied to new courthouse construction and to
                       construction of additional courtrooms in existing buildings (JCUS-SEP 08,
                       pp. 10-11). Among those actions taken was a direction to the Court
                       Administration and Case Management Committee – in consultation with the
                       Committee on Space and Facilities and the Committee on the Administration
                       of the Magistrate Judges System – to develop appropriate regulations for the
                       U.S. Courts Design Guide to implement a courtroom sharing policy for
                       magistrate judges. The Conference asked that the policy balance the need to
                       maintain flexibility in the district courts to utilize magistrate judge resources
                       to meet local needs with the ability to standardize space planning on a national
                       basis, and to ensure the efficient use of courtrooms without sacrificing the
                       availability of immediate access to a courtroom. At this session, this
                       Committee, in consultation with the appropriate committees, recommended,
                       and the Conference agreed to adopt, the following policy concerning
                       courtrooms for magistrate judges:

                                                              9

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                 September 15, 2009



                                        SHARING POLICY FOR MAGISTRATE JUDGES IN
                                      NEW COURTHOUSE AND COURTROOM CONSTRUCTION

                               New courtrooms for magistrate judges will be provided as
                               follows:

                               a.       In courthouses with one or two magistrate judges, one
                                        courtroom will be provided for each magistrate judge.

                               b.       In courthouses with three or more magistrate judges,
                                        one courtroom will be provided for every two
                                        magistrate judges. In addition, one courtroom will be
                                        provided for magistrate judge criminal duty
                                        proceedings. In courthouses where the application of
                                        this formula will result in a fraction (i.e., those with an
                                        odd number of magistrate judges), the number of
                                        courtrooms allocated will remain at the next lower
                                        whole number.

                               Exemption Policy

                               In the event this sharing arrangement would cause substantial
                               difficulty in the effective and efficient disposition of cases, a
                               court, as a whole, with the approval of its circuit judicial
                               council, may seek an individual exemption to this sharing
                               policy from the Judicial Conference’s Space and Facilities
                               Committee. Such exemptions should be considered the
                               exception and not the rule.

                               To be considered for an exemption, a court must first show that
                               the magistrate judge’s courtroom is in use over 75 percent of
                               the work day for case-related purposes. Thereafter, a court
                               should demonstrate that deviation from the basic sharing policy
                               is necessary, based on the following:

                               a. 	     An assessment of the number and type of courtroom
                                        events anticipated to be handled by the magistrate judge
                                        that would indicate that sharing a courtroom would
                                        pose a significant burden on the secure, effective and
                                        efficient management of that judge’s docket.



                                                                10

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   September 15, 2009



                                b.         An assessment of how the district has historically
                                           utilized its magistrate judges, supported by actual
                                           courtroom use data.

                                c.         An assessment of the current complement of
                                           courtrooms and their projected use in the facility and
                                           throughout the district, to reaffirm the necessity of
                                           constructing an additional courtroom.

                                d.         Whether a special proceedings, visiting judge, or other
                                           courtroom is available for the magistrate judge’s use in
                                           the new or existing facility.


                       ATTORNEY ADMISSION FUNDS

                                A court’s attorney admission funds may be used when appropriated
                       funds may not legally be used and the expenditure will “inure to the benefit of
                       the members of the bench and the bar in the administration of justice.” On
                       recommendation of the Committee, the Conference modified its Guidelines
                       for Attorney Admission Funds Maintained by the Courts of the United States,
                       Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, vol. 1, ch. 7, part M, to permit
                       the use of such funds to pay for meals and refreshments for judges and
                       judiciary employees when attending, at their duty stations, in a non-official
                       capacity, an event that benefits the bench and the bar in the administration of
                       justice.


                       MISCELLANEOUS FEES

                               Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule. In March 2008, the
                       Judicial Conference amended the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee
                       Schedule to clarify items and make stylistic changes to comport with current
                       editorial standards (JCUS-MAR 08, pp. 8-12). No substantive amendments
                       were considered. As the courts have implemented the new schedule, several
                       additional amendments have been suggested to correct unintentional
                       omissions and to further clarify the schedule. At this session, on
                       recommendation of the Committee, the Conference amended the following
                       items: (a) Item 4, to clarify that the fee applies only to filing amendments to
                       the debtor’s schedules of creditors, and not to other schedules; (b) Items 6 and
                       14, to conform the language in these sections, both of which provide that these

                                                                  11

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 15, 2009



                      fees should be paid by the estate when a trustee or debtor-in-possession is the
                      filer; (c) Item 11, to reincorporate an exception to the reopening fee based on
                      administrative error, which had been unintentionally omitted in previous
                      schedules; (d) Item 14, to clarify that interlocutory appeals are included under
                      this item; (e) Item 15, to correct a statutory reference that establishes a filing
                      fee for Chapter 15 cases; and (f) Item 18, to include the phrase “motion filed
                      by the debtor,” which had been unintentionally omitted.

                              United States Court of Federal Claims Fee Schedule. At the request of
                      the Court of Federal Claims, the Committee recommended, and the
                      Conference approved, amendments to that court’s fee schedule to make it
                      consistent with the District Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule. Item 1 was
                      amended to increase the Court of Federal Claims’ filing fee for civil actions
                      from $250 to $350 to match the district court filing fee, and two fees were
                      added to match similar charges in the district courts: Item 10, a $39 fee for
                      filing or indexing a document not in a case for which a filing fee has been
                      paid, and Item 11, a $45 fee for retrieval of a record from a remote location.


                      CIVIL JUSTICE REFORM ACT REPORTS

                              The Committee considered a recommendation from the Institute for
                      the Advancement of the American Legal System that Civil Justice Reform Act
                      (CJRA) reports be made available free of charge on the judiciary’s public
                      website. Noting that access to CJRA reports benefits the public and satisfies
                      the intent of Congress in enacting the CJRA, and that the fees generated by
                      distributing CJRA reports for a fee through PACER are minimal, the
                      Committee recommended that all Civil Justice Reform Act reports created
                      after September 30, 2009, be made available to the public without charge on
                      the judiciary’s public website, www.uscourts.gov. The Conference adopted
                      the Committee’s recommendation.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                      reported that it considered, among other things, the development of the next
                      generation of the judiciary’s Case Management/Electronic Case Files
                      (CM/ECF) system, issues relating to the courts’ compliance with the
                      E-Government Act, and revisions to the Civil Litigation Management Manual.
                      The Committee also considered and, after consultation with the Bankruptcy

                                                              12

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 15, 2009



                       Committee, rejected a proposal from the Seventh Circuit Judicial Council to
                       consolidate the district and bankruptcy courts of the Southern District of
                       Illinois, noting that the proposal, if resubmitted, should include the
                       participation of an active judge of that district’s bankruptcy court.


              C OMMITTEE ON C RIMINAL L AW

                       REENTRY COURT PROGRAMS

                               Increasing numbers of federal courts are implementing or have
                       expressed an interest in initiating reentry programs for federal offenders
                       modeled on state problem-solving “courts” (e.g., drug courts and diversion
                       courts). The Committee noted that there are numerous variations in such
                       programs and insufficient research on which techniques have proven
                       successful. In light of its commitment to the use of evidence-based practices,
                       the Committee on Criminal Law recommended that the Judicial Conference
                       endorse the commissioning of a study to assess the efficacy and cost-
                       effectiveness of reentry court programs, and ask the Committee to consider the
                       results of this study in recommending any appropriate model programs. The
                       Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it reviewed expenditure
                       guidelines designed to help implement the AO Director’s contracting and
                       expenditure authority established by the Second Chance Act of 2007, Pub. L.
                       No. 110-199, and the Judicial Administration and Technical Amendments Act
                       of 2008, Pub. L. No. 110-406, and forwarded them to the Director for
                       approval. In addition, pursuant to the authority delegated to the Committee by
                       the Conference to make "technical, conforming, and noncontroversial
                       amendments to monographs" (JCUS-MAR 06, p. 15), the Criminal Law
                       Committee approved updates to Monograph 110, Judicial Officers Reference
                       to Alternatives to Detention and Conditions of Release. The Committee also
                       discussed the status of actuarial risk-needs instruments being developed by the
                       AO for use in pretrial and post-conviction supervision.




                                                             13

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 15, 2009



             C OMMITTEE ON D EFENDER S ERVICES

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Defender Services reported that it reviewed the
                      results of recent professional surveys of federal judges and panel attorneys,
                      showing, among other things, that many courts have been experiencing
                      difficulties locating available, qualified panel attorneys for non-capital
                      Criminal Justice Act (CJA) appointments. The Committee was also informed
                      of the status of three ongoing Defender Services information technology
                      projects: the Electronic CJA Voucher Processing System, the National CJA
                      Voucher Training Program, and the Federal Defender Case Management
                      System. Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference
                      (JCUS-MAR 89, pp. 16-17), the Committee approved FY 2010 budgets and
                      grants for federal defender organizations.


             C OMMITTEE ON F EDERAL -S TATE J URISDICTION

                      DIVERSITY JURISDICTION

                              In response to a request from the Executive Committee that
                      Conference committees consider the continued viability of older legislative
                      positions that have not been pursued in Congress for some time, the
                      Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction considered, among other positions,
                      the Conference’s longstanding support for the abolition of general diversity
                      jurisdiction (JCUS-MAR 77, pp. 8-9; JCUS-SEP 77, p. 52; JCUS-MAR 78,
                      pp. 7-8; JCUS-SEP 79, p. 66; JCUS-MAR 86, p. 17).1 Noting that many of
                      the circumstances that served as the underpinning for the position no longer
                      prevail and that abolition of diversity jurisdiction may not reflect a consensus
                      of the federal judiciary today, the Committee recommended that the position
                      be rescinded. The Conference approved the recommendation.




             1
              The Conference has adopted several other positions that would narrow access to
             federal diversity jurisdiction, without eliminating it entirely. Those positions are not
             addressed here.

                                                             14

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 15, 2009




                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported on continued
                       efforts to engage in dialogue with local state-federal judicial councils on
                       matters of mutual interest. The Committee also reviewed the Hague
                       Convention on Choice of Court Agreements, which would make choice of
                       forum agreements in international civil and commercial contracts more readily
                       enforceable in signatory countries. The Committee also discussed provisions
                       in proposed whistleblower protection legislation that would eliminate the
                       exclusive jurisdiction of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit to review
                       final decisions of the Merit Systems Protection Board in whistleblower cases,
                       and would create a new private right of action for de novo review of
                       whistleblower claims in the federal district courts.


              C OMMITTEE ON F INANCIAL D ISCLOSURE

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that it is overseeing
                       the development of a system for the electronic filing and management of
                       financial disclosure reports. Analysis of the calendar year 2008 financial
                       disclosure reports reflects that use of the self-audit function in the financial
                       disclosure report software continues to improve the quality of the reports and
                       reduce the volume of correspondence between the Committee and filers. As
                       of July 7, 2009, the Committee had received 3,963 financial disclosure reports
                       and certifications for calendar year 2008, including 1,199 reports and
                       certifications from Supreme Court justices, Article III judges, and judicial
                       officers of special courts; 334 reports from bankruptcy judges; 521 reports
                       from magistrate judges; and 1,909 reports from judicial employees.


               C OMMITTEE ON INFORMATION T ECHNOLOGY

                       LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

                              Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612 and on recommendation of the Committee
                       on Information Technology, the Judicial Conference approved the fiscal year
                       2010 update to the Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the

                                                              15

Judicial Conference of the United States                                           September 15, 2009



                      Federal Judiciary. Funds for the judiciary’s information technology program
                      will be spent in accordance with this plan.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Information Technology reported that it discussed
                      plans to develop the next generation of the Case Management/Electronic Case
                      Files system, focusing on an effort to define a recommended software
                      architectural structure and a development methodology to ensure the next
                      generation will be integrated, flexible, and modular in nature. The Committee
                      also received an update on, and reaffirmed support for, development of a more
                      collaborative approach to shared application development and support in the
                      judiciary. In addition, the Committee received information about and
                      expressed its support for efforts under way to streamline contracting for both
                      wireless cellular management services and information technology security
                      services.


            C OMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT A SSIGNMENTS

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 144
                      intercircuit assignments were undertaken by 95 Article III judges from
                      January 1, 2009 to June 30, 2009. The Committee also reported on its Special
                      Work Assistance Taskforce (SWAT) approach to intercircuit assignments. In
                      light of the success of the SWAT approach in the Middle District of Florida
                      and the Southern District of New York, the Committee agreed to continue to
                      find creative ways to utilize intercircuit assignments to assist overburdened
                      courts. In addition, the Committee continued to disseminate information
                      about intercircuit assignments and aid courts requesting assistance by
                      identifying and obtaining judges willing to take assignments.




                                                           16

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 15, 2009



              C OMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL J UDICIAL R ELATIONS

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                       involvement in rule of law and judicial reform throughout the world,
                       highlighting activities in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean,
                       Europe, and Eurasia, as well as briefings at the Administrative Office for
                       foreign delegations of jurists and judicial personnel. The Committee further
                       reported on its continued participation in the rule of law component of the
                       Library of Congress’ Open World Program for jurists from Russia, Ukraine,
                       Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. In
                       addition, the Committee reported about rule of law activities involving the
                       Federal Judicial Center, the U.S. State Department, the U.S. Agency for
                       International Development, and the U.S. Department of Justice.


              C OMMITTEE ON THE J UDICIAL B RANCH

                       JUDGES’ TRAVEL REGULATIONS

                                Renting/Maintaining an Abode at a Temporary Duty Location. Section
                       E.2.g. of the Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, Guide
                       to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, vol. 3, ch. C-5, ex. A, provides
                       alternative methods for judges on official travel to claim the actual expense of
                       maintaining an abode at a temporary duty location. On recommendation of
                       the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the Conference amended the provision
                       regarding reimbursement, where official business is the principal reason for
                       maintaining the abode, to provide that (a) costs should be calculated based on
                       the monthly, rather than the annual cost; and (b) in lieu of the actual prorated
                       cost of lodging, a judge could elect to claim a per diem allowance, provided it
                       is the lesser of the two amounts.

                               Meals at Authorized Judicial Meetings. On recommendation of the
                       Committee, the Judicial Conference approved an amendment to section E.2.f.
                       of the judges’ travel regulations to apply limits to judges’ reimbursement for
                       meals incident to an authorized judicial meeting held at the official duty
                       station as follows (new language is underlined):




                                                             17

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 15, 2009



                               f. Reimbursement for subsistence expenses incident to an
                               authorized judicial meeting held at a judge’s official duty
                               station–A judge who attends an authorized judicial meeting
                               held in the city where the judge’s official duty station is located
                               may, if such expenses would be reimbursable in connection
                               with a meeting held in another location, be reimbursed for the
                               actual cost of meals incidental to the meeting, provided that the
                               judge’s attendance at the meal function is necessary to full
                               participation in essential formal discussions, lectures or
                               speeches concerning the business of the meeting. The expense
                               of meals incident to authorized judicial meetings held at the
                               official duty station should be reasonable and should reflect the
                               nature of the function. In general, the aggregate cost of such
                               meals should not exceed $100 per day; however, in those
                               instances where a judge attends a circuit judicial conference at
                               the official duty station, the judge may claim reimbursement
                               for the actual cost of meals up to $150 per day. By referring to
                               this section on any voucher claiming such meals, the judge
                               certifies compliance with these criteria.

                               Note: From an Internal Revenue Service perspective, for meals
                               to qualify as a reimbursable business expense, they must be
                               ordinary and necessary and not lavish and/or extravagant.

                              Same-Day Travel. The Committee recommended, and the Conference
                      approved, an amendment to section E.4.d. of the judges’ travel regulations to
                      substitute the General Services Administration’s locality Meals and Incidental
                      Expenses reimbursement rate for the flat-rate previously authorized in March
                      2008 (JCUS-MAR 08, p. 20) for meals and incidental expenses incurred in
                      same-day travel.

                              Additional Leg Room. To accommodate judges with special physical
                      needs, the Committee recommended that the Conference amend section
                      D.2.a.(1) of the judges’ travel regulations to authorize judges, under certain
                      conditions, to upgrade to seats with additional legroom. The Conference
                      adopted the Committee’s recommendation.




                                                               18

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 15, 2009




                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it continues to
                       focus its priority attention on securing automatic and annual cost-of-living
                       salary adjustments for judges. The Committee also gave substantial attention
                       to judicial benefits matters. Education of the public, especially the news
                       media, on the judiciary and the role of judges in society remains a priority of
                       the Committee. In addition, the Committee continues to monitor the
                       implementation of the Judicial Conference policy on privately reimbursed
                       seminars.


              C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL C ONDUCT AND D ISABILITY

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that it has
                       under advisement two petitions for review of circuit judicial council orders on
                       complaints under the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, 28 U.S.C.
                       §§ 351-364. The Committee is also studying procedural and policy issues
                       brought to light by early experience under the Conference’s 2008 Rules for
                       Judicial-Conduct and Judicial-Disability Proceedings. While continuing to
                       address courts’ inquiries regarding the Act and the Rules, the Committee is
                       developing an infrastructure to support the Committee’s expanded monitoring
                       function and is preparing informational products to help judges perform their
                       roles in the complaint process.


              C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL R ESOURCES

                       STAFFING FORMULAS

                               New Formulas. Based on rigorous work measurement studies
                       conducted by the Administrative Office, the Committee on Judicial Resources
                       recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, new staffing formulas
                       for the offices of district clerks, appellate clerks, bankruptcy appellate panel
                       clerks, and staff attorneys and for the bankruptcy administrator program, for
                       implementation beginning in fiscal year 2010.



                                                              19

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 15, 2009



                              The Conference also adopted the Committee’s recommendation for a
                      new formula for pro se law clerks for implementation in fiscal year 2010.
                      That formula uses only prisoner cases to create formula factors; however, to
                      protect small courts with minimal but important pro se law clerk workload and
                      to avoid termination of any on-board pro se law clerks, the formula provides a
                      1.0 full-time equivalent minimum to those districts earning any pro se law
                      clerk credit under the formula. The Conference also agreed to “grandfather”
                      current pro se law clerks in their present positions on a court-by-court basis
                      until the number of on-board pro se law clerks equals the number authorized
                      by the staffing formula. Encumbered positions will not be available for
                      backfill after the departure of the incumbent, unless supported by application
                      of the formula.

                              Formula Adjustment. The Judicial Conference approved a new
                      staffing formula for bankruptcy clerks’ offices in September 2008 (JCUS­
                      SEP 08, p. 24). Based on an initial analysis of the impact of the new formula
                      on staffing levels in those offices, concern was expressed that the new formula
                      might have a disproportionate impact on smaller courts that could not take
                      advantage of economies of scale. To address this concern, the Committee
                      recommended a sliding scale, no-cost adjustment that fine-tunes the formula
                      to take into account local circumstances. The Conference approved the
                      adjustment for use until the next update of the basic formula.


                      WORK MEASUREMENT METHODOLOGY

                               The current work measurement methodology used to develop staffing
                      formulas for court units produces “full requirements” for those units, i.e., the
                      staff size necessary to perform, without overtime or omission, the work
                      assigned to the respective office, based on a consensus-built hierarchy of tasks
                      and procedures, performed by workers with average experience, training,
                      efficiency, and effectiveness. The Committee recommended that the
                      Conference endorse the current process of developing full staff requirements
                      through consensus-developed, empirically derived, and transparently
                      coordinated work measurement formulas, and the Conference agreed.


                      COURT REPORTER COMPENSATION

                            In September 2007, as part of a cost-containment initiative, and after
                      conducting a comprehensive court compensation study, the Judicial

                                                             20

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 15, 2009



                       Conference agreed to alter the pay progression policy for Court Personnel
                       System employees to decrease the emphasis on the longevity component.
                       Court reporter salaries were omitted from this change with the understanding
                       that court reporter salaries would be considered at a later date. At this session,
                       with the goal of pursuing cost containment while at the same time ensuring
                       that court reporters are treated fairly, the Committee recommended that the
                       Judicial Conference approve retention of longevity pay for all currently
                       employed official court reporters, and elimination of longevity pay for future
                       official court reporters, beginning on October 11, 2009. The Conference
                       adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COURT INTERPRETER POSITIONS

                              Using established criteria, the Committee recommended, and the
                       Conference approved, one additional Spanish staff court interpreter position
                       beginning in fiscal year 2011 for the Southern District of Florida, based on the
                       Spanish language interpreting workload in that court.


                       VOLUNTARY SEPARATION

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed
                       to make permanent the current Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment
                       (buyout) and Voluntary Early Retirement Authority programs beginning in
                       fiscal year 2010. The decision to implement either of these programs each
                       fiscal year within the judiciary will be at the discretion of the Director of the
                       Administrative Office based upon business needs and in accordance with
                       existing Conference policy. The purpose of these programs is to provide
                       courts and federal public defender organizations maximum flexibility in
                       addressing reorganization and downsizing needs to achieve strategic goals and
                       enhance mission effectiveness.


                       COMPENSATORY TIME

                              In order to encourage employees to use accrued compensatory time
                       promptly, the judiciary’s policy has been to require that court employees use
                       compensatory time before using any accrued annual leave (Guide to Judiciary
                       Policies and Procedures, vol.1, ch.10, subch.1550.2). In situations where an
                       employee has “use or lose” annual leave, this requirement can result in the

                                                              21

Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 15, 2009


                      employee having to forfeit annual leave. To address this issue, on
                      recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to amend the
                      policy to permit exceptions on a case-by-case basis, as approved by the chief
                      judge or unit executive, as appropriate, or his/her designee.


                      PAY SETTING

                              The Salary Matching/Advanced In-Step Appointment Policy, Guide to
                      Judiciary Policies and Procedures, vol. 1, ch. 10, subch. 1338.2, excludes the
                      use of salary matching and advanced-in-step appointment authorities in the
                      case of employees of the courts or federal public defender organizations
                      transferring within the judiciary (or for certain employees transferring to the
                      judiciary from other branches of the federal government) unless there has been
                      a break in service of at least 90 days. To address concerns that this policy
                      works to the detriment of employees who are working under time-limited or
                      part-time employment, the Committee recommended that the Conference
                      amend the 90-day break-in-service requirement contained in the Judiciary
                      Salary Plan salary matching and Court Personnel System advanced in-step
                      rules to exempt candidates for court and federal public defender organization
                      graded positions whose employment with the federal government during the
                      12 months preceding the new appointment has been (a) under a temporary
                      (including temporary-indefinite) or term appointment or (b) a part-time
                      appointment and the employee is moving to a full-time appointment. The
                      Conference adopted this recommendation and also agreed that, consistent with
                      the current policy that precludes salary matching for chambers law clerk
                      positions, such positions would not be affected by this change.


                      BAR EXAMINATION PREPARATORY COURSE

                              In March 2009, the Conference approved discontinuation of the
                      practice of crediting the time spent in a bar examination preparatory course
                      toward the legal work experience required to qualify for the JSP-12 grade
                      level for law clerks (JCUS-MAR 09, p. 24). At this session, noting the
                      absence of a clear rationale for crediting bar examination preparatory course
                      time as legal work experience, the Committee recommended discontinuation,
                      effective October 11, 2009, of the practice of crediting such time toward the
                      legal work experience needed to be placed at a higher grade/classification
                      level for staff attorneys, circuit mediators, court attorneys, and any other



                                                            22

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 15, 2009


                       professional legal position classified under the Judiciary Salary Plan or Court
                       Personnel System. The Conference approved the recommendation.


                       HUMAN RESOURCES LEGISLATION

                              On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to
                       express to Congress the judiciary’s support for the concepts contained in bills
                       pending in the 111th Congress that would (a) amend the Internal Revenue
                       Code of 1986 as it pertains to long-term care insurance (in a manner that
                       would allow the judiciary to take pre-tax deductions for long-term care
                       premiums), and (b) amend title 5, United States Code, to allow former
                       employees who return to government to re-deposit their Federal Employees
                       Retirement System contributions.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that in response to a
                       request from the Executive Committee chair “to ensure that cost containment
                       remains a high priority” in the judiciary, it asked the Administrative Office to
                       develop additional cost-containment proposals for consideration by the
                       Judicial Resources Committee at its December 2009 meeting. The Committee
                       also discussed draft executive compensation policy proposals reviewed by the
                       Executive Compensation Working Group. The Committee asked the
                       Administrative Office to refine and clarify the proposals and present them to
                       the Committee for further consideration at its December 2009 meeting. The
                       Committee unanimously agreed to approve a one-year moratorium on
                       adopting and implementing new staffing formulas for probation and pretrial
                       services offices in order to allow the Administrative Office to conduct a new
                       work measurement study and develop weighted staffing formulas.


              C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL S ECURITY

                       COURTROOM SECURITY SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS

                               Security surveillance cameras are currently in use in courtrooms
                       throughout the country. They are programmed to record automatically
                       movement occurring within the viewing range of the camera, allowing court
                       security personnel to monitor remotely the well of the courtroom and the

                                                              23

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                               September 15, 2009


                      judge’s point of egress. On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial
                      Security, the Conference agreed to take the following actions with regard to
                      security recordings produced by these cameras:

                      a.	      Approve for transmission to the U.S. Marshals Service (USMS) a
                               proposed memorandum of understanding (MOU) that provides policy
                               and procedural guidance for the creation, retention, use, and disposal
                               of courtroom video recordings, and establishes that—

                               (1)	     Video (not audio) recordings of transmissions of courtroom
                                        proceedings for security purposes shall be made on a
                                        continuous and uninterrupted basis;

                               (2)	     The judiciary retains, and obtains by assignment from the
                                        USMS, full and sole ownership and control over all aspects of
                                        the courtroom video recordings;

                               (3)	     The chief judge of the district in which the recording is made is
                                        vested with the authority to release a courtroom video
                                        recording for security purposes; and

                               (4)	     In the event of a security incident, immediate release of a
                                        courtroom video recording for law enforcement purposes may
                                        be determined to be necessary by the district U.S. marshal, or
                                        his or her designee, with the approval of the chief judge, if
                                        feasible;

                      b. 	     Delegate to the Committee the authority to make technical and
                               non-controversial amendments to the MOU as necessary (before or
                               after its execution by the USMS) consistent with the basic policies set
                               forth in the Committee’s report to this Conference session; and

                      c.	      Support the development and transmission to the National Archives
                               and Records Administration of a records disposition schedule for the
                               routine courtroom surveillance recordings as set forth in the MOU.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it had in-depth
                      discussions with the USMS regarding court security officer (CSO) contract


                                                               24

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                    September 15, 2009


                       solicitations. The Committee would like the USMS to incorporate additional
                       safeguards in its contracting process to help avoid doing business with another
                       financially unstable company such as USProtect, a former CSO provider that
                       was forced into involuntary bankruptcy in March 2008. In addition, the
                       Committee, in concert with the AO, has completed the production of Project
                       365: Security Starts With You, a digital video disk that will be provided to all
                       judges, and is suitable for viewing by judges’ family members and staff.


              C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
              OF THE M AGISTRATE J UDGES S YSTEM

                       SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT REGULATIONS

                              In recognition of the importance of promoting diversity within the
                       magistrate judges system, the Committee on the Administration of the
                       Magistrate Judges System recommended that the Conference amend the
                       Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States Establishing
                       Standards and Procedures for the Appointment and Reappointment of United
                       States Magistrate Judges to—

                       a.       add the following language to section 2.01:

                                           To encourage applications from all qualified
                                           individuals, the court is encouraged to transmit the
                                           public notice to state and local bar associations and
                                           interest groups that focus on women and minorities.
                                           The court should also consider utilizing national
                                           publications and the judiciary’s J-Net Job Vacancies
                                           site; and

                       b.       add a new subsection 3.02(e), as follows:

                                           To further efforts to achieve diversity in all aspects of
                                           the magistrate judge selection process, the court is
                                           encouraged to appoint a diverse merit selection panel.

                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.




                                                                   25

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                             September 15, 2009




                      PER DIEM FOR RECALLS OVER ONE MONTH

                              In March 2000, the Judicial Conference amended the ad hoc and
                      extended service recall regulations for retired magistrate judges to impose
                      caps of 75 percent and 60 percent of maximum per diem travel reimbursement
                      on out-of-district full-time recalls for terms of over one month and three
                      months, respectively. In practice, however, these limits can leave magistrate
                      judges with inadequate reimbursement for travel and subsistence expenses,
                      and the procedure for waiver has proven to be cumbersome and time-
                      consuming. To address these issues, the Committee recommended, and the
                      Conference agreed to adopt, amendments to sections 13(a) and (b) of the ad
                      hoc and extended service recall regulations to remove the per diem limits,
                      provided, however, that the Director may impose reasonable limits on the
                      reimbursement of these expenses.


                      CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                              After consideration of the report of the Committee on the
                      Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of
                      the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial
                      councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the following
                      changes in the number, salaries, locations, and arrangements of full-time and
                      part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact are to
                      be effective when appropriated funds are available.

                      FIRST CIRCUIT

                      District of New Hampshire

                      1. 	     Authorized a clerk/magistrate judge position at Concord; and

                      2.	      Made no change in the location or arrangement of the existing
                               magistrate judge position in the district.




                                                             26

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                               September 15, 2009


                       SECOND CIRCUIT

                       Northern District of New York

                                Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                                Plattsburgh from Level 5 ($26,881 per annum) to Level 4 ($40,325 per
                                annum).

                       THIRD CIRCUIT

                       District of New Jersey

                       1.	      Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                                Newark; and

                       2. 	     Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or
                                arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                       FOURTH CIRCUIT

                       District of South Carolina

                       1.	      Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                                Florence;

                       2.	      Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Aiken upon the
                                expiration of the term of the current incumbent on March 31, 2011;
                                and

                       3.	      Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                                magistrate judge positions in the district.

                       FIFTH CIRCUIT

                       Southern District of Mississippi

                                Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                                magistrate judge positions in the district.




                                                               27

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                             September 15, 2009


                      SIXTH CIRCUIT

                      Eastern District of Kentucky

                               Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      Western District of Kentucky

                               Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      Northern District of Ohio

                               Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      SEVENTH CIRCUIT

                      Northern District of Illinois

                      1. 	     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                               Chicago; and

                      2. 	     Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      Central District of Illinois

                               Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      Northern District of Indiana

                               Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.




                                                             28

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                               September 15, 2009


                       EIGHTH CIRCUIT

                       Southern District of Iowa

                                Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                                magistrate judge positions in the district.

                       NINTH CIRCUIT

                       Southern District of California

                       1. 	     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at San
                                Diego; and

                       2. 	     Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                                magistrate judge positions in the district.

                       District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands

                                Authorized a clerk/magistrate judge position at Saipan.

                       TENTH CIRCUIT

                       District of New Mexico

                       1. 	     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                                Roswell from Level 5 ($26,881 per annum) to Level 3 ($53,767 per
                                annum); and

                       2.	      Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or
                                arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                       District of Utah

                       1.	      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                                St. George from Level 4 ($40,325 per annum) to Level 2 ($67,210 per
                                annum); and

                       2.	      Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                                magistrate judge positions in the district.



                                                               29

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 15, 2009


                      See also supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” pp. 5-6, for two new full-time
                      magistrate judge positions, one each at Sacramento and Fresno in the Eastern
                      District of California, approved on an expedited basis by the Executive
                      Committee on behalf of the Conference.


                      ACCELERATED FUNDING

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed
                      to designate for accelerated funding effective April 1, 2010 the new full-time
                      magistrate judge positions at Newark in the District of New Jersey, Florence
                      in the District of South Carolina, and Chicago in the Northern District of
                      Illinois, and to designate for accelerated funding effective October 1, 2009 the
                      new full-time magistrate judge position at San Diego in the Southern District
                      of California. See also supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” pp. 5-6, for
                      accelerated funding approved on an expedited basis by the Executive
                      Committee, on behalf of the Conference, for positions in Sacramento and
                      Fresno in the Eastern District of California.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                      reported that it discussed the development of a magistrate judge courtroom
                      sharing policy and communicated its views to the Committee on Court
                      Administration and Case Management. The Committee also reported that
                      pursuant to the September 2004 Judicial Conference policy regarding the
                      review of magistrate judge position vacancies (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 26), during
                      the period between the Committee’s December 2008 and June 2009 meetings,
                      the Committee chair approved filling one part-time and seven full-time
                      magistrate judge position vacancies. At its June 2009 meeting, the Committee
                      approved filling three additional magistrate judge position vacancies.


             C OMMITTEE ON R ULES OF P RACTICE AND P ROCEDURE

                      FEDERAL RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Appellate Rules 1 (Scope of
                      Rules; Title), 4 (Appeal as of Right — When Taken), and 29 (Brief of an

                                                             30

Judicial Conference of the United States                                           September 15, 2009


                       Amicus Curiae), and to Form 4 (Affidavit Accompanying Motion for
                       Permission to Appeal In Forma Pauperis), together with committee notes
                       explaining their purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference approved the
                       proposed rules and form amendments and authorized their transmittal to the
                       Supreme Court for its consideration with a recommendation that they be
                       adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                       FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1007 (Lists,
                       Schedules, Statements, and Other Documents; Time Limits), 1014 (Dismissal
                       and Change of Venue), 1015 (Consolidation or Joint Administration of Cases
                       Pending in Same Court), 1018 (Contested Involuntary Petitions; Contested
                       Petitions Commencing Ancillary Cases; Proceedings to Vacate Order for
                       Relief; Applicability of Rules in Part VII Governing Adversary Proceedings),
                       1019 (Conversion of a Chapter 11 Reorganization Case, Chapter 12 Family
                       Farmer’s Debt Adjustment Case, or Chapter 13 Individual’s Debt Adjustment
                       Case to a Chapter 7 Liquidation Case), 4001 (Relief from Automatic Stay;
                       Prohibiting or Conditioning the Use, Sale, or Lease of Property; Use of Cash
                       Collateral; Obtaining Credit; Agreements), 4004 (Grant or Denial of
                       Discharge), 5009 (Closing Chapter 7 Liquidation, Chapter 12 Family Farmer’s
                       Debt Adjustment, and Chapter 13 Individual’s Debt Adjustment Cases), 7001
                       (Scope of Rules of Part VII), and 9001 (General Definitions), and new Rule
                       5012 (Agreements Concerning Coordination of Proceedings in Chapter 15
                       Cases), together with committee notes explaining their purpose and intent.
                       The Judicial Conference approved the proposed rules amendments and new
                       rule and authorized their transmission to the Supreme Court for its
                       consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and
                       transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.

                               The Committee also submitted to the Judicial Conference proposed
                       revisions to Exhibit D to Official Form 1 (Voluntary Petition) and Official
                       Form 23 (Debtor’s Certification of Completion of Postpetition Instructional
                       Course Concerning Personal Finance Management). The Judicial Conference
                       approved the revised forms to take effect on December 1, 2009.




                                                            31

Judicial Conference of the United States                                          September 15, 2009




                      FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Civil Rules 8 (General Rules of
                      Pleading), 26 (Duty to Disclose; General Provisions Governing Discovery),
                      and 56 (Summary Judgment) and Illustrative Form 52 (Report of the Parties’
                      Planning Meeting), together with committee notes explaining their purpose
                      and intent. The Judicial Conference approved the proposed rules and form
                      amendments and authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court with a
                      recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to
                      Congress in accordance with the law.


                      FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Criminal Rules 12.3 (Notice of
                      a Public-Authority Defense), 15 (Depositions), 21 (Transfer for Trial), and
                      32.1 (Revoking or Modifying Probation or Supervised Release), together with
                      committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference
                      approved the proposed amendments and authorized their transmittal to the
                      Supreme Court for its consideration with a recommendation that they be
                      adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                      FEDERAL RULES OF EVIDENCE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference a proposed amendment to Evidence Rule 804 (Hearsay
                      Exceptions; Declarant Unavailable), together with a committee note
                      explaining the amendment’s purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference
                      approved the proposed amendment and authorized its transmittal to the
                      Supreme Court for its consideration with a recommendation that it be adopted
                      by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                      STANDING ORDER/LOCAL RULES

                             On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference approved
                      Guidelines for Distinguishing Between Matters Appropriate for Standing

                                                           32

Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 15, 2009


                       Orders and Matters Appropriate for Local Rules and for Posting Standing
                       Orders on a Court’s Web Site, and agreed that the guidelines be transmitted to
                       the courts, along with an explanatory report.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                       approved publishing for public comment proposed amendments to Bankruptcy
                       Rules 2003, 2019, 3001, 4004, and 6003, new Bankruptcy Rules 1004.2 and
                       3002.1, and proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Official Forms 22A, 22B,
                       and 22C; proposed amendments to Criminal Rules 1, 3, 4, 6, 9, 32.1, 40, 41,
                       43, and 49 and new Criminal Rule 4.1; and Restyled Evidence Rules
                       101-1103. The restyling of the Evidence Rules is the fourth in a series of
                       comprehensive style revisions to simplify, clarify, and make more uniform all
                       of the federal rules of practice, procedure, and evidence. The comment period
                       expires on February 16, 2010.


              C OMMITTEE ON S PACE AND F ACILITIES

                       U.S. COURTS DESIGN GUIDE: RENOVATION 

                       AND ALTERATION APPENDIX


                               The Committee on Space and Facilities recommended, and the Judicial
                       Conference approved, a Renovation and Alteration Appendix to the U.S.
                       Courts Design Guide. The Appendix is intended to address the unique
                       challenges and opportunities that arise when a court makes major renovations
                       or alterations to an existing building. Since the Appendix supersedes a
                       chapter on courtroom renovation and alteration endorsed by the Conference in
                       March 2004 (JCUS-MAR 04, pp. 28-29), the Conference rescinded its March
                       2004 position.


                       BALLISTIC GLAZING

                                In March 2000, the Conference amended the U.S. Courts Design
                       Guide to provide that for new construction or major renovation projects, the
                       ballistic-resistant glazing standard for windows in all courtrooms and
                       chambers, regardless of where they are located in the courthouse, should be
                       UL Standard 752, Level IV (which is classified as a bullet-resistant product

                                                             33

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                     September 15, 2009


                      capable of stopping one shot from a .30 caliber rifle), unless the U.S. Marshals
                      Service determined that ballistic-resistant glazing was not needed. Based on
                      new information gleaned on this topic from the security industry, the USMS,
                      and other security experts, the Committee recommended that the Conference
                      amend the ballistic-glazing requirement contained in the U.S. Courts Design
                      Guide to read as follows:

                               Ballistic-resistant glazing, UL Standard 752, Level IV, may be
                               considered for a judge’s private office within the chambers
                               suite after full disclosure has been made to the court of the
                               relevant risks, inconsistencies, costs, and alternatives including,
                               but not limited to, the following:

                               a.          The risk, and inconsistency with applicable blast criteria,
                                           arising from the fact that ballistic-resistant glazing may turn
                                           into a lethal projectile in the event of a blast;

                               b.          The risk that emergency workers may find it difficult to
                                           break through ballistic-resistant glazing during rescue
                                           efforts;

                               c.          The necessity of factoring the costs associated with structural
                                           reinforcements and materials supporting ballistic-resistant
                                           glazing into the overall cost estimate;

                               d.          The fact that ballistic-resistant glazing may appear different
                                           from standard windows and thereby create a security risk by
                                           identifying a target;

                               e.          The likelihood that windows with ballistic-resistant glazing
                                           will not be operable except for maintenance purposes;

                               f.          The finding by security experts that keeping a target from view,
                                           using window-coverings, architectural features or other
                                           low-cost measures is often the most effective deterrent to a
                                           targeted on-site attack; and

                               g.          The decision to install ballistic-resistant glazing is subject to
                                           funding availability.


                      The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation. 



                                                                   34

Judicial Conference of the United States                                           September 15, 2009




                       FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

                              On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       approved the Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan for FYs 2011-2015, which
                       moves the projects from the previous five-year plan back by one year and
                       removes the Austin, Texas project, which was funded in 2009.


                       U.S. COURTS DESIGN GUIDE EXCEPTION

                               The District of Maryland moved its Central Violations Bureau (CVB)
                       docket to the courthouse located in Greenbelt, Maryland when its lease
                       agreement with the State of Maryland expired. Because of the unique nature
                       of the CVB docket, the Committee recommended, and the Conference agreed
                       to approve, an exception to the U.S. Courts Design Guide to allow
                       construction of a magistrate judge courtroom of 2,440 square feet at the
                       Greenbelt, Maryland courthouse.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that the budget
                       request for the space and facilities program for fiscal year 2011 was $1.16
                       billion. The Committee also reported that it concurred in the recommendation
                       of the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management regarding a
                       courtroom sharing policy for magistrate judges (see supra, “Courtroom
                       Sharing,” pp. 9-11). The Committee also approved an appeal process for
                       long-range facilities plans prepared under the Asset Management Planning
                       (AMP) process, as well as an amendment to the AMP Business Rules
                       regarding how courtrooms and chambers should be provided for roving
                       judges, i.e., judges who have more than one duty station.




                                                            35

Judicial Conference of the United States                                          September 15, 2009


             F UNDING
                              All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                      funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                      the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                      establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                 Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                 Presiding




                                                           36

