R EPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE J UDICIAL C ONFERENCE
OF THE U NITED S TATES


September 14, 2010


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on September 14, 2010, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                     First Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                 Chief Judge Mark L. Wolf,
                                        District of Massachusetts

                     Second Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs
                                 Chief Judge William K. Sessions III,
                                        District of Vermont

                     Third Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                Chief Judge Harvey Bartle III,
                                       Eastern District of Pennsylvania
                     Fourth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.
                                 Judge James P. Jones,
                                        Western District of Virginia

                     Fifth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Edith Hollan Jones
                                 Judge Sim Lake III,
                                        Southern District of Texas
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 14, 2010



                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alice M. Batchelder
                                           Chief Judge Solomon Oliver, Jr.,
                                                  Northern District of Ohio

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook
                                           Chief Judge Richard L. Young,
                                                  Southern District of Indiana

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Rodney W. Sippel,
                                                  Eastern District of Missouri

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alex Kozinski
                                           Judge Charles R. Breyer,
                                                  Northern District of California

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe
                                           Judge Robin J. Cauthron,
                                                  Western District of Oklahoma

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel F. Dubina
                                           Judge Myron H. Thompson,
                                                  Middle District of Alabama

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge David Bryan Sentelle
                                           Chief Judge Royce C. Lamberth,
                                                  District of Columbia

                                                               2
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 14, 2010




                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Randall R. Rader

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Jane A. Restani

                               The following Judicial Conference committee chairs attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Bobby R. Baldock, Julia Smith Gibbons,
                       Michael S. Kanne, M. Margaret McKeown, Jeffrey S. Sutton, and Richard C.
                       Tallman, and District Judges Julie E. Carnes, Rosemary M. Collyer, Janet C.
                       Hall, Robert L. Hinkle, D. Brock Hornby, George H. King, Mark R. Kravitz,
                       Barbara M.G. Lynn, J. Frederick Motz, Donald C. Pogue, Michael A. Ponsor,
                       Julie A. Robinson, Lee H. Rosenthal, Charles R. Simpson III, George Z.
                       Singal, and Laura Taylor Swain. Bankruptcy Judge Rosemary Gambardella
                       and Magistrate Judge Anthony J. Battaglia were also in attendance, and
                       Collins Fitzpatrick of the Seventh Circuit represented the circuit executives.

                               James C. Duff, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
                       States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill C. Sayenga,
                       Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General
                       Counsel; Laura C. Minor, Assistant Director, and Wendy Jennis, Deputy
                       Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Cordia
                       A. Strom, Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; and David A. Sellers,
                       Assistant Director, Public Affairs. District Judge Barbara Jacobs Rothstein,
                       Director, and John S. Cooke, Deputy Director, Federal Judicial Center, and
                       Judith W. Sheon, Staff Director, United States Sentencing Commission, were
                       in attendance at the session of the Conference, as was Jeffrey P. Minear,
                       Counselor to the Chief Justice. Scott Harris, Supreme Court Counsel, and the
                       2010-2011 Supreme Court Fellows also observed the Conference proceedings.

                               Acting Deputy Attorney General Gary Grindler addressed the
                       Conference on matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department
                       of Justice. Senators Patrick Leahy and Jeff Sessions spoke on matters pending
                       in Congress of interest to the Conference.




                                                                3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 14, 2010



             R EPORTS
                              Mr. Duff reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                      courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge
                      Rothstein spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC)
                      programs, and Chief Judge Sessions, in his capacity as Chair of the United
                      States Sentencing Commission, reported on Sentencing Commission
                      activities. Judge Gibbons, Chair of the Committee on the Budget, presented a
                      special report on the budget outlook.


             E XECUTIVE C OMMITTEE

                      RESOLUTION

                              The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
                      Committee to adopt the following resolution recognizing the substantial
                      contributions made by the Judicial Conference committee chairs whose terms
                      of service end in 2010:

                                    The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
                               with appreciation, respect, and admiration the following
                               judicial officers:

                                         HONORABLE DONALD C. POGUE
                               Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability

                                       HONORABLE BARBARA M. G. LYNN
                                 Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System

                                               HONORABLE JULIE E. CARNES
                                                 Committee on Criminal Law

                                           HONORABLE CHARLES R. SIMPSON III
                                           Committee on International Judicial Relations

                                           HONORABLE LAURA TAYLOR SWAIN
                                            Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules




                                                                4
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 14, 2010



                                            HONORABLE ROBERT L. HINKLE
                                           Advisory Committee on Rules of Evidence

                                Appointed as committee chairs by the Chief Justice of the
                                United States, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role
                                in the administration of the federal court system. These judges
                                served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference
                                committees while, at the same time, continuing to perform their
                                duties as judges in their own courts. They have set a standard
                                of skilled leadership and earned our deep respect and sincere
                                gratitude for their innumerable contributions. We acknowledge
                                with appreciation their commitment and dedicated service to
                                the Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.


                       JUDICIARY STRATEGIC PLANNING

                               In 2008, with the permission of the Chief Justice, the Executive
                       Committee formed an Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on Judiciary Planning to
                       propose a new planning process for the federal judiciary. The group, which
                       was comprised of current and former Conference committee chairs and
                       members of the Executive Committee, as well as court executives, also took
                       on the role of developing a new strategic plan that would potentially replace
                       the Long Range Plan for the Federal Courts adopted by the Conference in
                       1995 (see JCUS-SEP 95, pp. 38-63). After two years of work and extensive
                       consultation within the judiciary, in August 2010, the Ad Hoc Advisory
                       Committee proposed a strategic plan that was intended to serve as a broad
                       action agenda addressing judiciary trends, issues, challenges, and
                       opportunities. Beginning with restatements of the vision, mission, and core
                       values of the judiciary, the plan identifies seven key issues and sets forth 13
                       strategies and more than 30 goals by which the judiciary could address those
                       issues. The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee also made several recommendations
                       with regard to an approach to planning.

                              On recommendation of the Executive Committee, and after discussion,
                       the Judicial Conference approved the proposed Strategic Plan for the Federal
                       Judiciary, as well as a recommended approach to planning, both with minor
                       changes recommended by the Executive Committee on the Conference floor.
                       With regard to the planning approach, the Conference agreed that—




                                                               5
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 14, 2010



                      a.       The Executive Committee chair may designate for a two-year
                               renewable term an active or senior judge, who will report to that
                               Committee, to serve as the judiciary planning coordinator. The
                               planning coordinator will have responsibility to facilitate and
                               coordinate the strategic planning efforts of the Judicial Conference and
                               its committees.

                      b.       With suggestions from Judicial Conference committees and others, and
                               the input of the judiciary planning coordinator, the Executive
                               Committee will identify issues, strategies, or goals to receive priority
                               attention over the next two years.

                      c.       The committees of the Judicial Conference will integrate the Strategic
                               Plan for the Federal Judiciary into committee planning and policy
                               development activities.

                      d.       For every goal in the Strategic Plan, a mechanism to measure or assess
                               the judiciary's progress will be developed.

                      e.       Any substantive changes to the Strategic Plan will require the approval
                               of the Judicial Conference, but the Executive Committee will have the
                               authority, as needed, to approve technical and non-controversial
                               changes to the Strategic Plan. A review of the Strategic Plan will take
                               place every five years.

                      f.       The new Strategic Plan for the Federal Judiciary will supersede the
                               December 1995 Long Range Plan for the Federal Courts as a planning
                               instrument to guide future policy-making and administrative actions
                               within the scope of Conference authority. This action, however,
                               should not be interpreted as an across-the-board rescission of the
                               individual Conference policies articulated in the recommendations and
                               implementation strategies of the earlier plan.


                      MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                               The Executive Committee —

                      •        Approved a statement on behalf of the Conference in reaction to
                               pending legislation – as it related to the judiciary – that would have
                               clarified the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO’s) ability to

                                                               6
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 14, 2010



                                enforce its existing authority to see records and expanded its interview
                                authority, as well as its power to make and retain copies of agency
                                records; and endorsed pursuit of formal protocols for GAO’s
                                interactions with the judiciary;

                       •        Declined to recommend action by the Judicial Conference on a request
                                for Conference review of a Judicial Conduct and Disability Act
                                complaint that had been dismissed and for which the petition for
                                review had been denied by the Committee on Judicial Conduct and
                                Disability, on delegation from the Conference;

                       •        Pending final congressional action on the judiciary's appropriations for
                                fiscal year (FY) 2011, approved FY 2011 interim financial plans for
                                the Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Court Security, and
                                Fees of Jurors and Commissioners accounts, and endorsed a strategy
                                for distributing court allotments among the court programs;

                       •        Discussed challenges faced by the judiciary with regard to its
                                courthouse construction program and decided to form an ad hoc group
                                of judges to discuss how the judiciary should approach these
                                challenges; and endorsed a letter to be sent by the Director of the
                                Administrative Office on behalf of the judiciary to the President
                                regarding FY 2012 funding for new federal courthouse construction
                                projects.


              C OMMITTEE ON A UDITS AND
              A DMINISTRATIVE O FFICE A CCOUNTABILITY

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                       reported that it was briefed on the scope, methodology, findings, and
                       identified risks in recent audits. It also reviewed an analysis of audit data over
                       the past ten years, which showed a downward trend in the average number of
                       audit findings since the implementation of numerous enhancements to the
                       judiciary's financial management, audit, and internal control programs over the
                       last decade. Noting that the minority of court units which do not complete
                       annual internal control evaluations tend to have more audit findings, the
                       Committee asked the AO to consider how best to encourage those courts to


                                                               7
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 14, 2010



                      complete the annual self-evaluations. The Committee selected two AO
                      employees to receive the Leonidas Ralph Mecham Award for Exemplary
                      Service to the Courts, and the Committee determined to expand the award’s
                      scope to recognize career excellence and outstanding leadership.


             C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
             OF THE B ANKRUPTCY S YSTEM

                      BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIP VACANCIES

                              In accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(3), the Judicial Conference
                      conducts a comprehensive review of all judicial districts every other year to
                      assess the continuing need for authorized bankruptcy judgeships. By
                      December 31 of each even-numbered year, the Conference reports its
                      recommendations to Congress for the elimination of any authorized
                      bankruptcy judgeship position that can be eliminated when a vacancy exists by
                      reason of resignation, retirement, removal, or death. On recommendation of
                      the Bankruptcy Committee, which relied on the results of the 2010 continuing
                      needs survey, the Judicial Conference agreed to take the following actions:

                      a.       Recommend to Congress that no bankruptcy judgeship be statutorily
                               eliminated; and

                      b.       Advise the Eighth Circuit Judicial Council with regard to the District
                               of South Dakota and the Northern District of Iowa and the Ninth
                               Circuit Judicial Council with regard to the District of Alaska to
                               consider not filling vacancies in those districts that currently exist or
                               may occur by reason of resignation, retirement, removal, or death, until
                               there is a demonstrated need to do so.


                      CRITERIA FOR ADDITIONAL BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                              In March 1991, the Judicial Conference adopted a policy statement
                      regarding the standards to be used for considering requests for additional
                      bankruptcy judgeships. At the same time, the Conference adopted bankruptcy
                      case weights developed by the Federal Judicial Center to be used in
                      administering those standards (JCUS-MAR 91, pp. 12-13). The Federal
                      Judicial Center recently developed new case weights that reflect the effects of

                                                               8
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 14, 2010


                       economic, technological, and legislative developments since 1991 (such as the
                       enactment of the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act
                       of 2005) on the judicial time needed to process bankruptcy cases. The
                       Committee recommended that the Conference adopt the new case weights to
                       be used for assessing judgeship needs. The Committee also recommended
                       that the Conference revise the 1991 policy statement to (a) make non-
                       substantive changes to the standards for evaluating additional bankruptcy
                       judgeship needs; (b) add standards for evaluating requests for conversion of
                       temporary judgeships to permanent; and (c) incorporate the standards the
                       Conference has approved for use in the biennial continuing needs surveys.
                       The Conference approved the Committee’s recommendations.


                       OFFICIAL DUTY STATIONS

                              On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee and in accordance
                       with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(1), the Judicial Conference took the following actions
                       regarding official duty stations:

                       a.       Approved a request from the Ninth Circuit Judicial Council to
                                designate in the Central District of California Santa Ana as the duty
                                station for two of the vacant bankruptcy judgeships in that district and
                                Riverside as the duty station for the four bankruptcy judges currently
                                serving at that location; and

                       b.       Approved a request from the Second Circuit Judicial Council to
                                designate Burlington as the duty station for the bankruptcy judgeship
                                in the District of Vermont.


                       BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATOR REGULATIONS

                                On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, the Judicial
                       Conference approved revisions to the Regulations of the Judicial Conference
                       of the United States Governing the Bankruptcy Administrator Program that
                       clarify language and consolidate sections that were duplicative. The
                       regulations appear in Volume 9, Chapter 2, of the Guide to Judiciary Policy.




                                                                9
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 14, 2010




                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                      reported that it agreed unanimously to recommend to the Budget Committee
                      that funding in FY 2012 for recalled bankruptcy judges and temporary law
                      clerks remain at the FY 2011 projected current services levels. At the request
                      of the Budget Committee, the Bankruptcy Committee also discussed the
                      programmatic impact of a proposal to lower the budget cap for the Salaries
                      and Expenses account, and had no objection to the proposal.


             C OMMITTEE ON THE B UDGET

                      FISCAL YEAR 2012 BUDGET REQUEST
                              .
                              After careful consideration of the funding levels proposed by the
                      program committees, the Committee on the Budget recommended to the
                      Judicial Conference a fiscal year 2012 budget request to Congress that is
                      4.7 percent above assumed appropriations for FY 2011. This request contains
                      funding to meet the essential, increasing workload needs of the judiciary while
                      taking into consideration the limited funding that Congress is likely to have
                      available. The Conference approved the budget request subject to
                      amendments necessary as a result of (a) new legislation, (b) actions of the
                      Judicial Conference, or (c) any other reason the Executive Committee
                      considers necessary and appropriate.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Budget reported that in light of the current and
                      projected austere fiscal outlook, its FY 2012 budget recommendation would
                      provide funding for only what is essential to support the judiciary's mission.
                      In addition, noting that it expects that budgets in the next several cycles will
                      be tighter than in the current cycle, the Budget Committee asked
                      Administrative Office staff to develop alternative budget cap proposals that
                      are lower than the current 8.2 percent annual budget cap for the Salaries and
                      Expenses account adopted by the Judicial Conference in March 2007
                      (JCUS-MAR 07, p. 10). Any proposals will be provided to the program
                      committees in advance of their December 2010 meetings for their input. The
                      Budget Committee commended the program committees for their

                                                             10
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  September 14, 2010


                       cost-containment initiatives to date and noted that the long-term financial
                       health of the judiciary will be aided by future cost-containment efforts that
                       provide tangible cost savings or avoidances.


              C OMMITTEE ON C ODES OF C ONDUCT

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in March 2010, the Committee received 17
                       new written inquiries and issued 17 written advisory responses. During this
                       period, the average response time for requests was 22 days. In addition, the
                       Committee chair responded to 159 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                       members responded to 133 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                       responded to 358 informal inquiries.


              C OMMITTEE ON C OURT A DMINISTRATION
              AND C ASE M ANAGEMENT

                       CAMERAS IN THE COURTROOM PILOT PROJECT

                               On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
                       Case Management, the Judicial Conference authorized a pilot project to
                       evaluate the effect of cameras in district court courtrooms, of video recordings
                       of proceedings therein, and of publication of such video recordings. The pilot
                       project will proceed in accordance with the tenets outlined below, and is
                       subject to definition and review by the Committee. In addition, the
                       Committee will request that a study of the pilot be conducted by the Federal
                       Judicial Center.

                       a.       The pilot will be national in scope and consist of up to 150 individual
                                judges from districts chosen to participate by the Federal Judicial
                                Center, in consultation with the Court Administration and Case
                                Management Committee. The pilot project should include a national
                                survey of all district judges, whether or not they participate in the pilot,
                                to determine their views on cameras in the courtroom.                   .




                                                                11
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 September 14, 2010


                      b.       The pilot will last up to three years, with interim reports prepared by
                               the Federal Judicial Center after the first and second years.

                      c.       The pilot will be limited to civil cases only.

                      d.       Courts participating in the pilot will record proceedings, and
                               recordings by other entities or persons will not be allowed.

                      e.       Parties in a trial must consent to participating in the pilot.

                      f.       Recording of members of a jury will not be permitted at any time.

                      g.       Courts participating in the pilot should – if necessary – amend their
                               local rules (providing adequate public notice and opportunity to
                               comment) to provide an exception for judges participating in the
                               Judicial Conference-authorized pilot project.

                      h.       The Court Administration and Case Management Committee is
                               authorized to issue and amend guidelines to assist the pilot
                               participants.

                      I.       The Administrative Office is authorized to provide funding to the
                               courts with participating judges – if needed – for equipment and
                               training necessary to participate in the pilot.


                      PACER ACCESS TO CERTAIN BANKRUPTCY FILINGS

                               Under the Judicial Conference policy on privacy and public access to
                      electronic case files, bankruptcy filings should include only the last four digits
                      of filers’ social security numbers on their petitions and other public documents
                      (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, pp. 48-50). However, documents filed prior to
                      implementation of the policy in 2003 are still available on the Public Access
                      to Court Electronic Records (PACER) system and contain the debtors’ full
                      social security numbers, creating privacy concerns. To address those
                      concerns, on recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                      agreed to amend its privacy policy to restrict public access through PACER to
                      documents in bankruptcy cases that were filed before December 1, 2003 and
                      have been closed for more than one year, with the following conditions:




                                                                12
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 14, 2010


                       a.       The docket sheet and docket information would remain available to the
                                general public via PACER.

                       b.       Any party who has filed a notice of appearance in an individual case
                                would have Case Management/Electronic Case Files (CM/ECF)
                                system or PACER access to all filings in that case.

                       c.       All filings in such cases would remain accessible at the clerks' offices,
                                except those under seal.

                       d.       Access to documents in bankruptcy case appeals filed in the district
                                courts, bankruptcy appellate panels, or courts of appeals for
                                bankruptcy cases filed before December 1, 2003, would be similarly
                                restricted.

                       The Conference also agreed to delegate to the Court Administration and Case
                       Management Committee the authority to develop implementation guidance for
                       the courts to effectuate this policy. This guidance will include encouraging
                       courts to establish a method to accept requests for copies of documents in
                       these cases.


                       CENTRAL VIOLATIONS BUREAU
                       PETTY OFFENSE CASES

                               Petty offense cases committed on federal property are processed by the
                       judiciary’s Central Violations Bureau (CVB). In order to facilitate
                       management of such cases, the Administrative Office is working to integrate
                       CVB data into the CM/ECF system and make such cases accessible through
                       PACER. However, because standard CVB violation notices contain personal
                       identifiers such as social security numbers, full birth dates, and full home
                       addresses, the Committee recommended that the Conference endorse the
                       approach of providing courts with redacted and unredacted versions of the
                       CVB violation notice, with participant access to the unredacted version, and
                       public access through PACER to the redacted version. The Conference
                       adopted the Committee’s recommendation.




                                                               13
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                    September 14, 2010




                      RECORDS MANAGEMENT

                               The Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference adopt a
                      revised district court records disposition schedule for civil cases that sets
                      retention periods for non-trial civil cases largely by case type. Under this
                      schedule, it is estimated that half of the closed case files currently in storage at
                      federal retention centers (for which storage fees are charged) would be
                      immediately eligible for disposal, which would lead to reductions in storage
                      fees. The Conference adopted the revised retention schedule.


                      PACER TRAINING PROGRAM

                              In September 2007, the Judicial Conference approved a pilot project to
                      provide free public access to PACER at Federal Depository Libraries (FDLs)
                      (JCUS-SEP 07, pp. 12-13). However, that program was suspended when a
                      PACER security vulnerability was discovered. At this session, the Committee
                      recommended, and the Conference approved, the establishment of a program
                      involving the Government Printing Office, the American Association of Law
                      Libraries, and the Administrative Office, that would provide training and
                      education to the public about the PACER service, and would exempt from
                      billing the first $50 of quarterly usage by a library participating in the
                      program.


                      COURT LIBRARIES AND LIBRARY SERVICES

                              At the request of the Committee, the Administrative Office undertook
                      a comprehensive study of court libraries and library services focusing on the
                      role for libraries in the digital age, options for change, and consideration of
                      potential savings. Based on the results of that study, and after receiving
                      significant input from circuit librarians, subject matter experts, judges, and
                      legal researchers, among others, the Committee made a number of
                      recommendations, which were approved by the Conference as follows:

                      a.       With regard to library collections, agreed to—

                               (1)         Ask that the Committee establish guidelines to discourage
                                           maintaining subscriptions to regional reporters, state case law
                                           reporters, and specialty reporters in libraries and advise circuit

                                                                   14
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                    September 14, 2010


                                           librarians to consider significantly reducing the number of
                                           subscriptions to the federal reporters in staffed libraries,
                                           especially West’s Federal Supplement. If there is a concern
                                           that legal research services for the public/litigants or bar would
                                           be hindered if case law reporters are not available in the library,
                                           the local court(s) should consider using attorney admission
                                           funds to maintain the subscriptions.

                                (2)        Request that the circuit librarians conduct and lead a
                                           comprehensive assessment of usage and need in the
                                           headquarters library and each satellite library or shared
                                           collection. The assessment should involve local judges, legal
                                           researchers, and any relevant circuit library committees;
                                           consider if infrequently used categories of materials identified
                                           by the library survey results could be eliminated; and include
                                           an analysis of duplication. A summary of the assessment
                                           should be reported to the Committee.

                                (3)        Ask that the Committee establish guidelines discouraging
                                           subscriptions to case law reporters for newly appointed judges
                                           and existing judges.

                       b.       With regard to the number and size of libraries, agreed to request that
                                the circuit judicial councils, working with circuit librarians, library
                                committees, and relevant judges, review satellite libraries to assess the
                                continuing need for each library. In addition, they should review more
                                closely libraries that serve fewer than 10 judges and report to this
                                Committee whether those libraries will remain open or are targeted
                                either for closure or reduction in size and collection. Consideration
                                should be given to the circuit library program as a whole and the
                                impact of closure of any satellite on the remaining libraries and the
                                judges and others served.


                       NATIONAL VACCINE ACT PROPOSAL

                               The National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 establishes a
                       procedure to compensate vaccine-injured individuals through use of vaccine
                       special masters within the United States Court of Federal Claims. Special
                       masters conduct hearings and issue findings of fact and conclusions of law,
                       and their determinations are appealable to Court of Federal Claims judges and


                                                                   15
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 14, 2010


                      then to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. To address significant
                      backlogs in processing these cases, the Court of Federal Claims has proposed
                      legislation that would (a) assign vaccine claims directly to Court of Federal
                      Claims judges, who could then hear the cases or refer them to vaccine judges;
                      (b) rename vaccine special masters as vaccine judges; (c) authorize vaccine
                      judges to issue a recommended decision, or with the consent of the parties,
                      hear and enter judgement; (d) with the consent of the parties, authorize appeal
                      of the vaccine judge’s decision directly to the Court of Appeals for the Federal
                      Circuit; and (e) authorize the Court of Federal Claims clerk instead of the
                      chief special master to assume responsibility for the managerial aspects of the
                      vaccine judges. After considering the proposal, the Committee recommended
                      that the Judicial Conference decline to endorse renaming vaccine special
                      masters as vaccine judges in light of the limited jurisdiction of those officers,
                      but endorse the remaining concepts proposed by the Court of Federal Claims.
                      The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                      TRANSLATED FORMS

                               The Judicial Conference declined to approve a motion to recommit an
                      information item regarding the translation of court forms for voluntary use by
                      district courts in civil cases.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                      reported that given the current economic climate, it determined to defer until
                      June 2011 its cyclical review of miscellaneous fee schedules regarding
                      increases for inflation. The Committee continued to provide policy guidance
                      and oversight in the development of the functional requirements for the next
                      generation CM/ECF software. It also endorsed an updated policy on wireless
                      communication devices in courthouses and asked for review of the policy by
                      the Judicial Security Committee. In addition, the Committee expressed
                      support for the Codes of Conduct Committee’s recently issued resource packet
                      to assist courts in developing guidelines for employees on the use of social
                      media.




                                                             16
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 14, 2010



              C OMMITTEE ON C RIMINAL L AW

                       SEARCH AND SEIZURE

                               Guidelines. On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law,
                       the Judicial Conference approved guidelines entitled, “Search and Seizure
                       Guidelines for United States Probation Officers in the Supervision of
                       Offenders on Supervised Release or Probation,” to replace model search and
                       seizure guidelines adopted in 1993 (JCUS-MAR 93, p. 13). The new
                       guidelines reflect developments in case law, best practices, and updates to
                       administrative policies and procedures.

                               Use-of-Force Policy. In September 2002, the Judicial Conference
                       approved a use-of-force continuum to govern self-defense responses by
                       probation and pretrial services officers (JCUS-SEP 02, p. 44). Noting that
                       certain provisions of that policy might conflict with provisions in the new
                       search and seizure guidelines, the Committee recommended that the
                       Conference approve revisions to the use-of-force policy to allow officers to
                       manage searches as permitted by the new guidelines. The Conference
                       approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                       THE SUPERVISION OF FEDERAL DEFENDANTS,
                       MONOGRAPH 111

                              On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       approved revisions to Monograph 111, The Supervision of Federal
                       Defendants. The monograph, which provides guidance to officers who
                       supervise defendants on pretrial release, was updated to reflect current
                       knowledge in the field of substance abuse and mental health treatment.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it discussed the status
                       of the implementation of actuarial risk-needs instruments developed by the
                       AO for use in pretrial and post-conviction supervision, consistent with the
                       Committee’s ongoing commitment to evidence-based practices. In addition,
                       the Committee reviewed the results of several preliminary studies of the



                                                             17
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           September 14, 2010


                      effectiveness of certain evidence-based practices that have been implemented
                      by the courts.


             C OMMITTEE ON D EFENDER S ERVICES

                      COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATION
                      MODEL CODE OF CONDUCT

                              On recommendation of the Committee on Defender Services, the
                      Judicial Conference approved a Model Code of Conduct for Federal
                      Community Defender Employees, which is based on the code of conduct
                      applicable to federal public defender organization employees, but modified
                      appropriately for non-profit criminal defense organizations. The Conference
                      also approved a new paragraph to be added to the community defender
                      organization (CDO) grant and conditions document that requires CDOs to
                      adopt the code, absent an approved variance from the AO. Finally, the
                      Conference delegated to the Defender Services Committee the authority to
                      make future adjustments to the CDO code that are substantially in accord with
                      the code of conduct applicable to federal public defenders.


                      LITIGATION SUPPORT

                              The Committee recommended and the Conference approved revisions
                      to the Criminal Justice Act (CJA) Guidelines, Guide to Judiciary Policy,
                      Volume 7A, § 320.70.40, and the corresponding sample model order, to
                      streamline and clarify the procedures for CJA panel attorneys to request and
                      acquire computer hardware and software for use in CJA representations.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Defender Services reported that, under delegated
                      authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR 89, pp. 16-17), it
                      approved FY 2011 budgets and grants for federal defender organizations. The
                      Committee also approved funding for the establishment of a federal public
                      defender organization in the Northern District of Alabama, to be
                      headquartered in Birmingham, with a staffed branch office in Huntsville and a
                      staffing level of six assistant federal public defenders. The Committee
                      reviewed an update to the 1998 report, “Federal Death Penalty Cases:

                                                           18
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 14, 2010


                       Recommendations Concerning the Cost and Quality of Defense
                       Representation” (the “Spencer Report”), and endorsed updated commentary to
                       the original recommendations and public dissemination of the report, as
                       updated.


              C OMMITTEE ON F EDERAL -S TATE J URISDICTION

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it discussed
                       with the Legal Adviser for the Department of State the position adopted by the
                       Judicial Conference in March 2010 regarding federal legislation to implement
                       the Hague Convention on Choice of Court Agreements. The Committee also
                       reviewed proposed legislation to authorize the High Court of American Samoa
                       to exercise federal criminal jurisdiction, and determined to recommend no
                       change in the 1996 Judicial Conference position expressing a preference for a
                       territorial court in the event Congress chooses to extend federal jurisdiction to
                       the territory. In addition, the Committee reviewed a legislative proposal to
                       establish standards for state court actions on child custody orders affecting
                       military personnel deployed overseas. Noting that the Judicial Conference has
                       opposed legislation that would result in child custody cases being brought in
                       federal court, the Committee asked the AO Director to transmit a letter to
                       Congress suggesting that it consider an amendment to the proposed measure
                       that would clarify the exclusion of such cases from federal courts.


              C OMMITTEE ON F INANCIAL D ISCLOSURE

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of July
                       1, 2010, it had received 4,015 financial disclosure reports and certifications for
                       calendar year 2009, including 1,215 reports and certifications from Supreme
                       Court justices, Article III judges, and judicial officers of special jurisdiction
                       courts; 339 reports from bankruptcy judges; 534 reports from magistrate
                       judges; and 1,927 reports from judicial employees. The Committee continues
                       to oversee the development of a system for the electronic filing and records
                       management of financial disclosure reports. The system will work in
                       conjunction with the financial disclosure report software currently used to
                       produce these reports.

                                                              19
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 14, 2010



              C OMMITTEE ON INFORMATION T ECHNOLOGY

                      LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

                              Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612 and on recommendation of the Committee
                      on Information Technology, the Judicial Conference approved the fiscal year
                      2011 update to the Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the
                      Federal Judiciary. Funds for the judiciary’s information technology program
                      will be spent in accordance with this plan.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Information Technology reported that it endorsed a
                      number of information technology (IT) program initiatives designed to
                      enhance communication and collaboration with the courts, provide the courts
                      with key IT services and support, and strengthen the reliability and capability
                      of the judiciary’s IT infrastructure. The Committee discussed ongoing
                      initiatives including the next generation CM/ECF architecture study, the
                      development of functional requirements for the next generation CM/ECF
                      system, and the development of an electronic vouchering system for Criminal
                      Justice Act panel attorneys. The Committee received a presentation on how
                      information in digital form is transforming the writing of judicial opinions and
                      discussed the potential implications of this trend.


            C OMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT A SSIGNMENTS

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 112
                      intercircuit assignments were undertaken by 89 Article III judges from January
                      1, 2010, to June 30, 2010. During this time, the Committee continued to
                      disseminate information about intercircuit assignments and aided courts
                      requesting assistance by identifying and obtaining judges willing to take
                      assignments.




                                                            20
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 14, 2010



              C OMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL J UDICIAL R ELATIONS

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                       involvement in rule of law and judicial reform throughout the world,
                       highlighting activities in Asia and the Pacific Basin, Latin America and the
                       Caribbean, the Middle East, Europe, and Eurasia. The Committee further
                       reported on its participation in the rule of law component of the Library of
                       Congress’ Open World Program for jurists from Russia, Ukraine, Georgia,
                       Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, and Tajikistan, and in activities involving
                       the Federal Judicial Center, the Department of State, the Agency for
                       International Development, the Department of Justice, the Patent and
                       Trademark Office, the AO Office of Defender Services, and U.S. court
                       administrators. The Committee also received an analysis of current rule of
                       law and judicial reform issues in Eastern Europe and the Balkans from the
                       Minister of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia.


              C OMMITTEE ON THE J UDICIAL B RANCH

                       JUDGES’ TRAVEL REGULATIONS

                               The Judicial Conference approved an amendment to the Travel
                       Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy,
                       Vol. 19, § 220.30.10(g), to provide that a chief district judge, with the
                       concurrence of the circuit judicial council, may authorize a senior district
                       judge who lives within the territorial boundaries of the court to which the
                       judge was originally commissioned, reimbursement for enhanced
                       transportation, lodging, and subsistence expenses (e.g., airfare, lodging, and
                       three meals per day) when it is in the interest of the administration of justice
                       (e.g., due to a shortage of judge power or case backlog). The amendment is
                       intended to address a situation where the judge’s residence, although within
                       the court’s territorial boundaries, may be located outside the commuting area
                       of the court.




                                                              21
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 14, 2010




                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it continues to
                      consider ways to maintain and enhance the independence and dignity of the
                      federal judicial office. The Committee also considered steps that may be
                      taken to improve the total compensation of federal judges. The Committee
                      continues to examine ways to improve judicial-legislative communications,
                      and educating the public, especially the media, on the judiciary and the role of
                      judges in society remains a priority of the Committee.


             C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL C ONDUCT AND D ISABILITY

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that on
                      April 12, 2010, it issued a Memorandum of Decision on a petition for review
                      of a circuit judicial council order on a complaint under the Judicial Conduct
                      and Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-364. In addition, the Committee has
                      issued a set of complaint filing instructions for courts to post online. The
                      Committee continues to address courts’ inquiries and to develop resources and
                      infrastructure in support of the Committee’s responsibilities.


             C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL R ESOURCES

                      JUDICIARY SALARY PLAN PAY-SETTING FLEXIBILITY

                              With limited exceptions, the salary for applicants from outside the
                      federal civil service is set at step 1 of the Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) grade to
                      which they are appointed. On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial
                      Resources, the Judicial Conference affirmed the interpretation and application
                      of the Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) non-chambers pay-setting flexibility that
                      would allow an applicant for a court unit executive or second-in-command
                      (e.g., Type II chief deputy/deputy chief) JSP position to be appointed at step 1
                      or above in a grade lower than the highest grade for which the individual is
                      qualified, subject to the following policy provisions:




                                                              22
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 September 14, 2010


                       a.       The salary for the higher step may not exceed the corresponding salary
                                for step 1 of the higher grade for which the individual is qualified;

                       b.       If such an employee is subsequently promoted in less than one year
                                from the individual’s appointment date, the promotion may not result
                                in the individual’s salary exceeding the highest grade and step for
                                which the individual was initially eligible;

                       c.       For individuals appointed using this flexibility, the two-step increase
                                JSP promotion rule may not be applied until the employee has worked
                                at the grade and step to which the individual is appointed for one year;
                                and

                       d.       The position must be announced at all possible grades that the
                                appointing officer is considering for the appointment.

                       This pay flexibility allows a court to offer a salary that is not at the highest
                       possible grade or salary for that applicant, but may still be competitive
                       because it is at a higher step than could otherwise be offered in the lower
                       grade.


                       JUDICIAL ASSISTANT/ COURT REPORTER POSITION

                               On recommendation of the Committee, and in accordance with
                       28 U.S.C. § 753(a), the Judicial Conference approved the addition of court
                       reporter duties to the judicial assistant position in the chambers of Judge
                       Roberto A. Lange in the District of South Dakota based on the circumstances
                       presented by the court and because it is in the public interest. The approval is
                       limited to the present incumbent judicial assistant in Judge Lange’s chambers.
                       The judicial assistant-court reporter is required to follow all statutory
                       requirements and Judicial Conference policies related to court reporting, as
                       well as the Code of Conduct for Judicial Employees, when providing court
                       reporting services to the court and the litigants.


                       COURT INTERPRETER POSITIONS

                              Using established criteria, the Committee recommended and the
                       Conference approved one additional Spanish staff court interpreter position
                       each for the Southern District of California and the District of New Mexico

                                                                23
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 14, 2010


                      and two additional Spanish staff court interpreter positions for the Western
                      District of Texas for fiscal year 2012, based on the Spanish language
                      interpreting workload in these courts. Accelerated funding in fiscal year 2011
                      was authorized for the one additional Spanish staff court interpreter position
                      for the District of New Mexico and the two additional Spanish staff court
                      interpreter positions for the Western District of Texas.


                      TELEWORK POLICY

                              On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                      amended its telework policy for courts and federal public defender
                      organizations as it relates to teleworkers who work permanently from remote
                      locations to change the official duty station for locality pay purposes to the site
                      where the employee spends the majority of his or her time in the performance
                      of official duties, and to clarify travel and relocation policies for such
                      employees. Specifically, the Conference revised the current telework policy
                      to —

                      a.       Define “official duty station” as the telework site for an employee who
                               is not required to report to the employing court or federal public
                               defender organization at least twice each biweekly pay period on a
                               regular and recurring basis (other than during temporary telework, e.g.,
                               during a medical recovery period), and as the site of the employing
                               court or organization for any employee who reports to the court or
                               organization at least twice each biweekly pay period on a regular and
                               recurring basis;

                      b.       Provide that a court or federal public defender organization should
                               establish in its telework policy generally, and in each telework
                               agreement specifically, what, if any, travel reimbursement is
                               authorized when an employee travels to the employing court or
                               organization; and

                      c.       Clarify that relocation expenses are not authorized when the official
                               duty station changes as a result of the initiation of full-time telework,
                               or modification or termination of a telework agreement.




                                                               24
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 14, 2010




                       EMPLOYMENT DISPUTE RESOLUTION

                              On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference adopted the
                       following policy statement regarding a judge’s role when presiding in an
                       employment dispute resolution (EDR) proceeding:

                       a.       EDR proceedings are strictly administrative and are not “cases and
                                controversies” under Article III of the Constitution;

                       b.       Judges presiding in EDR matters are functioning in an administrative
                                rather than judicial capacity;

                       c.       Judges’ decisions in EDR matters must be in conformance with all
                                statutes and regulations that apply to the judiciary, and judges in the
                                EDR context have no authority to declare such statutes or regulations
                                unconstitutional or invalid; and

                       d.       Judges presiding in EDR matters may not compel the participation of
                                or impose remedies upon agencies or entities other than the employing
                                office which is the respondent in such matters.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it submitted to the
                       Committee on the Budget a fiscal year 2012 budget request that represents a
                       5.4 percent increase over the fiscal year 2011 assumed appropriations. In
                       order to stay within the guidelines recommended by the Budget Committee for
                       2012, the request was based on a re-computation of the staffing formulas
                       using only the fastest 70 percent of the work measurement data at the category
                       level of work (e.g., civil cases, Chapter 7 bankruptcy cases). The Committee
                       also established as Committee policy its intent to use category-level formula
                       adjustments as a cost-containment mechanism for developing its budget
                       request each year when budget guidance establishes a ceiling lower than
                       would be derived using the work measurement formulas at 100 percent of
                       requirements. The Committee asked the Administrative Office to conduct
                       studies on the alternative dispute resolution program, death penalty law clerks,
                       and court sizing formulas, and present the results to the Committee at its June
                       2011 meeting.



                                                               25
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 14, 2010



             C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL S ECURITY

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it discussed and
                      concurred with the Space and Facilities Committee’s recommendation that the
                      Conference endorse the concept of the establishment of a Capital Security
                      Program (see infra, “Capital Security Program,” p. 30). The Committee also
                      reported on the development of a guide for judges who have had false liens
                      filed against them, which provides easy-to-follow instructions on requesting
                      representation and taking appropriate action.


             C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
             OF THE M AGISTRATE J UDGES S YSTEM

                      CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                             After consideration of the report of the Committee on the
                      Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of
                      the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial
                      councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the following
                      changes in the number, locations, salaries, and arrangements of magistrate
                      judge positions in the respective district courts. Changes with a budgetary
                      impact are to be effective when appropriated funds are available.

                      SEVENTH CIRCUIT

                      Southern District of Indiana

                      1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                               Indianapolis; and

                      2.       Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or
                               arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.




                                                              26
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 14, 2010


                       EIGHTH CIRCUIT

                       District of Minnesota

                        1.      Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                                Minneapolis or St. Paul; and

                       2.       Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or
                                arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.


                       NINTH CIRCUIT

                       Central District of California

                       1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Santa
                                Ana or Riverside; and

                       2.       Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or
                                arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                       District of Nevada

                       1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Las
                                Vegas; and

                       2.       Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                                magistrate judge positions in the district.

                       The Conference also agreed to make no change in the number, locations,
                       salaries, or arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the District of
                       Puerto Rico; District Court of the Virgin Islands; District of Nebraska; District
                       of South Dakota; Southern District of Georgia; and District of Columbia.


                       ACCELERATED FUNDING

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed
                       to designate for accelerated funding, effective April 1, 2011, the new full-time
                       magistrate judge positions at Indianapolis in the Southern District of Indiana;



                                                               27
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 14, 2010


                      Minneapolis or St. Paul in the District of Minnesota; Santa Ana or Riverside
                      in the Central District of California; and Las Vegas in the District of Nevada.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                      reported that under the September 2004 Judicial Conference policy regarding
                      the review of magistrate judge position vacancies (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 26),
                      during the period between the Committee’s December 2009 and June 2010
                      meetings, the Committee chair approved filling nineteen full-time magistrate
                      judge position vacancies. At its June 2010 meeting, the full Committee
                      approved filling one vacancy and deferred action on another vacancy pending
                      further review at its December 2010 meeting. The Committee also reviewed a
                      report on long-range planning for the magistrate judges system and agreed to
                      consider, at its December 2010 meeting, several long-range planning issues
                      identified in the report.


             C OMMITTEE ON R ULES OF P RACTICE AND P ROCEDURE

                      FEDERAL RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

                              Rules Amendments. The Committee on Rules of Practice and
                      Procedure submitted to the Judicial Conference proposed amendments to
                      Appellate Rules 4 (Appeal as of Right — When Taken) and 40 (Petition for
                      Panel Rehearing), together with committee notes explaining their purpose and
                      intent. The Judicial Conference approved the proposed rules amendments and
                      authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court for its consideration with a
                      recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to
                      Congress in accordance with the law.

                              Statutory Amendment. The Committee also recommended seeking
                      legislation to amend 28 U.S.C. § 2107, consistent with the proposed
                      amendment to Appellate Rule 4, to clarify and make uniform the treatment of
                      the time to appeal in all civil cases in which a federal officer or employee is a
                      party. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.




                                                             28
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           September 14, 2010




                       FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

                               Rules Amendments. The Committee on Rules of Practice and
                       Procedure submitted to the Judicial Conference proposed amendments to
                       Bankruptcy Rules 2003 (Meeting of Creditors or Equity Security Holders),
                       2019 (Representation of Creditors and Equity Security Holders in Chapter 9
                       Municipality and Chapter 11 Reorganization Cases), 3001 (Proof of Claim),
                       4004 (Grant or Denial of Discharge), 6003 (Interim and Final Relief
                       Immediately Following the Commencement of the Case — Applications for
                       Employment; Motions for Use, Sale, or Lease of Property; and Motions for
                       Assumption or Assignment of Executory Contracts), and new Rules 1004.2
                       (Petition in Chapter 15 Cases) and 3002.1 (Notice Relating to Claims Secured
                       by Security Interest in the Debtor’s Principal Residence), together with
                       committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference
                       approved the proposed rules amendments and new rules and authorized their
                       transmittal to the Supreme Court for its consideration with a recommendation
                       that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance
                       with the law.

                               Forms Amendments. The Committee also submitted to the Judicial
                       Conference proposed revisions to Official Forms 9A, 9C, 9I, 20A, 20B, 22A,
                       22B, and 22C. The Judicial Conference approved the revised forms to take
                       effect on December 1, 2010.


                       FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Criminal Rules 1 (Scope;
                       Definitions), 3 (The Complaint), 4 (Arrest Warrant or Summons on a
                       Complaint), 6 (The Grand Jury), 9 (Arrest Warrant or Summons on an
                       Indictment or Information), 32 (Sentencing and Judgment), 40 (Arrest for
                       Failing to Appear in Another District or for Violating Conditions of Release
                       Set in Another District), 41 (Search and Seizure), 43 (Defendant’s Presence),
                       and 49 (Serving and Filing Papers), and new Rule 4.1 (Complaint, Warrant, or
                       Summons by Telephone or Other Reliable Electronic Means), together with
                       committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference
                       approved the proposed amendments and new rule and authorized their
                       transmittal to the Supreme Court for its consideration with a recommendation



                                                            29
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 14, 2010


                      that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance
                      with the law.


                      FEDERAL RULES OF EVIDENCE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference proposed restyled Evidence Rules 101-1103, together
                      with committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The restyling of the
                      Evidence Rules is the fourth in a series of comprehensive style revisions to
                      simplify, clarify, and make more uniform all of the federal rules of practice,
                      procedure, and evidence. The Judicial Conference approved the proposed
                      restyled rules amendments and authorized their transmittal to the Supreme
                      Court for its consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted by the
                      Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                      approved publishing for public comment proposed amendments to Bankruptcy
                      Rules 3001, 7054, and 7056, proposed revisions of Bankruptcy Official Forms
                      10 and 25A, and a proposed new attachment and supplements to Bankruptcy
                      Official Form 10, and proposed amendments to Criminal Rules 5 and 58, and a
                      new Criminal Rule 37. The comment period expires on February 16, 2011.


             C OMMITTEE ON S PACE AND F ACILITIES

                      CAPITAL SECURITY PROGRAM

                              Noting that there are many court facilities that have serious operational
                      and security deficiencies, but might not qualify for funding for a new
                      courthouse, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference endorse
                      the concept of a Capital Security Program to assist such courts. The program,
                      which would be a collaborative effort between the judiciary and GSA, would
                      fund the retrofitting of certain types of physical security enhancements at
                      locations that are suitable for such improvements. The Conference adopted the
                      Committee’s recommendation.



                                                             30
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 14, 2010




                       FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

                                On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       approved the Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan for FYs 2012-2016, which
                       (a) adds the courthouse in Los Angeles, California, to the first year of the plan
                       (FY 2012) as it is the only judicial space emergency that has not yet been built
                       and is the judiciary’s highest space priority; and (b) includes two new projects in
                       the last year of the plan (FY 2016) for which it has been determined sufficient
                       funding exists under the Judicial Conference’s rent cap.


                       FEASIBILITY STUDIES

                               Requests for GSA feasibility studies must be approved by the Judicial
                       Conference as Component B projects under the judiciary’s circuit rent
                       management program (JCUS-SEP 07, pp. 36-37). After reviewing requests for
                       feasibility studies using asset management planning (a methodology approved
                       by the Conference, see JCUS-MAR 08, p. 26) and determining urgency scores
                       for each project, the Committee recommended that the Conference approve
                       GSA feasibility studies for the projects in the following three locations:
                       Hartford, Connecticut; Winston-Salem/Greensboro, North Carolina; and
                       Clarksburg, West Virginia. The Conference approved the Committee’s
                       recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that it advised the
                       Administrative Office on procedures for responding to out-of-cycle circuit rent
                       budget Component B requests for housing for newly confirmed judges, and
                       clarified the process through which its space planning and rent management
                       subcommittees deal with requests for feasibility studies. The Committee also
                       discussed the status of the first three tenant alterations projects (in Des Moines,
                       Iowa; Chicago, Illinois; and Washington, D.C.) planned by the courts under the
                       newly granted congressional authorization for the GSA to delegate to the
                       judiciary the authority to perform tenant alterations projects costing up to
                       $100,000.




                                                               31
Judicial Conference of the United States                                          September 14, 2010



             F UNDING
                              All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                      funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                      the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                      establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                 Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                 Presiding




                                                           32
