REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


September 11, 2012


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on September 11, 2012, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                     First Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                 Chief Judge Mark L. Wolf,
                                        District of Massachusetts

                     Second Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs
                                 Chief Judge Carol Bagley Amon,
                                        Eastern District of New York

                     Third Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                 Chief Judge Gary L. Lancaster,
                                        Western District of Pennsylvania

                     Fourth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.
                                 Chief Judge Deborah K. Chasanow,
                                        District of Maryland

                     Fifth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Edith Hollan Jones
                                 Chief Judge Sarah S. Vance,
                                        Eastern District of Louisiana
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           September 11, 2012


                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alice M. Batchelder
                                           Judge Thomas A. Varlan,
                                                  Eastern District of Tennessee

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook
                                           Chief Judge Richard L. Young,
                                                  Southern District of Indiana

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Rodney W. Sippel,
                                                  Eastern District of Missouri

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alex Kozinski
                                           Judge Robert S. Lasnik,
                                                  Western District of Washington

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe
                                           Judge Robin J. Cauthron,
                                                  Western District of Oklahoma

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel F. Dubina
                                           Judge W. Louis Sands,
                                                  Middle District of Georgia

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge David Bryan Sentelle
                                           Chief Judge Royce C. Lamberth,
                                                  District of Columbia

                                                               2
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 11, 2012


                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Randall R. Rader

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Donald C. Pogue

                               The following Judicial Conference committee chairs attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Julia Smith Gibbons, Robert A.
                       Katzmann, Diarmuid F. O’Scannlain, Reena Raggi, John M. Rogers, Anthony
                       J. Scirica, Jeffrey S. Sutton, and Timothy M. Tymkovich; District Judges
                       Nancy F. Atlas, Robert Holmes Bell, David G. Campbell, Rosemary M.
                       Collyer, Joy Flowers Conti, Claire V. Eagan, Sidney A. Fitzwater, David A.
                       Katz, Joseph H. McKinley, Jr., J. Frederick Motz, Joel A. Pisano (incoming
                       chair), Michael A. Ponsor, Julie A. Robinson, and Richard W. Story; and
                       Bankruptcy Judge Eugene R. Wedoff. Attending as the bankruptcy judge and
                       magistrate judge observers, respectively, were Bankruptcy Judge Michael E.
                       Romero and Magistrate Judge Thomas C. Mummert, III. Betsy Paret of the
                       District of Columbia Circuit represented the circuit executives.

                               Judge Thomas F. Hogan, Director of the Administrative Office of the
                       United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill C.
                       Sayenga, Deputy Director; Robert K. Loesche, General Counsel; Laura C.
                       Minor, Assistant Director, and Jeffrey A. Hennemuth, Deputy Assistant
                       Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Cordia A. Strom,
                       Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; and David A. Sellers, Assistant
                       Director, Public Affairs. District Judge Jeremy D. Fogel, Director, and John
                       S. Cooke, Deputy Director, Federal Judicial Center, and District Judge Patti B.
                       Saris, Chairman, and Judith W. Sheon, Staff Director, United States
                       Sentencing Commission, were in attendance at the session of the Conference,
                       as was Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to the Chief Justice. Scott Harris,
                       Supreme Court Counsel, and the 2012-2013 Supreme Court Fellows also
                       observed the Conference proceedings.

                              Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., addressed the Conference on
                       matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice.
                       Senators Patrick J. Leahy, Amy Klobuchar, and Jeff Sessions, and
                       Representatives Lamar S. Smith, John S. Conyers, Jr., and Steve Cohen spoke
                       on matters pending in Congress of interest to the Conference.


                                                                3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 11, 2012



             REPORTS
                              Judge Hogan reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                      courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge Fogel
                      spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC) programs, and
                      Judge Saris reported on United States Sentencing Commission activities.
                      Judge Gibbons, Chair of the Committee on the Budget, presented a special
                      report on budgetary matters.


             EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
                      RESOLUTION

                              The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
                      Committee to adopt the following resolution recognizing the substantial
                      contributions made by Judicial Conference committee chairs whose terms of
                      service end in 2012:

                               The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
                               appreciation, respect, and admiration the following judicial
                               officers:

                                           HONORABLE DAVID A. KATZ
                               Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability

                                              HONORABLE CLAIRE V. EAGAN
                                                Committee on Defender Services

                                         HONORABLE GEORGE H. KING
                             Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System

                                             HONORABLE MARK R. KRAVITZ
                                           Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure

                                             HONORABLE JEFFREY S. SUTTON
                                             Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules

                               Appointed as committee chairs by the Chief Justice of the
                               United States, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role


                                                                4
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 11, 2012


                                in the administration of the federal court system. These judges
                                served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference
                                committees while, at the same time, continuing to perform their
                                duties as judges in their own courts. They have set a standard
                                of skilled leadership and earned our deep respect and sincere
                                gratitude for their innumerable contributions. We acknowledge
                                with appreciation their commitment and dedicated service to
                                the Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.


                       MEETING PLANNING AND
                       ADMINISTRATION POLICY

                               In May 2012, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the
                       Judicial Conference, approved a recommendation of the Committee on the
                       Judicial Branch to establish a new, judiciary-wide policy on the planning and
                       administration of conferences and meetings that involve some participant
                       travel. The new policy is intended to assure that meetings are planned and
                       administered cost-effectively. It requires planners to justify meeting
                       arrangements, as well as obtain advance approval and make public disclosure
                       when meeting costs exceed certain levels. In September 2012, the Executive
                       Committee, at the request of the Judicial Branch Committee, acted on behalf
                       of the Judicial Conference to approve a few clarifying changes to the policy to
                       emphasize the balanced manner in which the policy should be applied. The
                       policy, which can be found in the Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 19, Ch. 9,
                       has an effective date of October 1, 2012, and applies to events planned on or
                       after that date.


                       FISCAL YEAR 2013 INTERIM FINANCIAL PLANS

                               Pending final congressional action on the judiciary’s appropriations for
                       fiscal year (FY) 2013, the Executive Committee approved FY 2013 interim
                       financial plans for the Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Court
                       Security, and Fees of Jurors and Commissioners accounts. For purposes of
                       developing the interim plans, the Executive Committee assumed a hard freeze
                       in appropriations at FY 2012 levels for all four accounts, which, given
                       inflation and reductions in non-appropriated funds, will provide funding for
                       court allotments in the Salaries and Expenses account at 5.2 percent below
                       what was provided in FY 2012, and equates to FY 2008 allotment levels.


                                                              5
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 11, 2012




                      OTHER BUDGETARY MATTERS

                              Under the Budget Control Act of 2011, Pub. L. No. 112-25, a series of
                      across-the-board cuts to federal government spending (sequestration) will be
                      imposed, starting on January 1, 2013, and continuing through fiscal year 2021,
                      unless Congress enacts at least $1.2 trillion in spending cuts before mandatory
                      sequestration begins. To prepare for this contingency, the Judicial Conference
                      committees with program responsibility for portions of the judiciary budget
                      were asked to provide to the Executive Committee their views on how best to
                      apply the potential spending cuts in general, and in their respective areas of
                      concern. The Executive Committee discussed sequestration at its August and
                      September 2012 meetings, and noted that it is prepared to take any appropriate
                      action, including modification of the approved financial plans, as required
                      under the circumstances. As a follow-up to the September 2012 meeting,
                      Chief Judge Sentelle, chair of the Executive Committee, established a special
                      subcommittee of the Executive Committee to develop strategies and options
                      for the full Committee to consider.


                      UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION

                               The Executive Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference
                      approved by mail ballot, the following names of judges for presentation to the
                      President for appointment, subject to the advice and consent of the Senate, to
                      fill current and upcoming vacancies on the United States Sentencing
                      Commission: Charles R. Breyer, Northern District of California; William S.
                      Duffey, Jr., Northern District of Georgia; Claire V. Eagan, Northern District of
                      Oklahoma; Paul L. Friedman, District of Columbia; Catherine D. Perry,
                      Eastern District of Missouri; and Lawrence F. Stengel, Eastern District of
                      Pennsylvania.


                      MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                               The Executive Committee —

                      •        Approved on behalf of the Judicial Conference a delegation to the
                               United States Supreme Court of the Conference’s authority under the
                               newly enacted Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge (“STOCK”)
                               Act, Pub. L. No. 112-105, with respect to Supreme Court personnel.

                                                             6
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 11, 2012


                       •        Approved on behalf of the Judicial Conference a recommendation
                                from the Committee on Space and Facilities to grant an exception to
                                the square footage requirements in the U.S. Courts Design Guide so
                                that chambers for a new circuit judge could be constructed in
                                Anchorage, Alaska, provided that (a) the cost of moving the U.S.
                                trustee’s office does not exceed $150,000, and (b) the Ninth Circuit
                                covers any project expenses that exceed $958,200.

                       •        Determined to grant primary jurisdiction to the Committee on
                                Intercircuit Assignments with respect to temporary assignments of
                                bankruptcy judges and magistrate judges outside of their home circuits
                                and asked that committee, working in collaboration with the
                                Committees on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System and
                                Magistrate Judges System, to recommend to the Judicial Conference a
                                process through which temporary intercircuit assignments of
                                bankruptcy and magistrate judges will be subject to prior review by the
                                Intercircuit Assignments Committee; and

                       •        Prohibited routine invitations of former Judicial Conference committee
                                members to attend one last committee meeting after their terms of
                                service expire and approved conforming amendments to the Judicial
                                Conference of the United States and Its Committees to reflect this
                                policy.


              COMMITTEE ON AUDITS AND
              ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE ACCOUNTABILITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                       reported that an independent audit firm provided a detailed briefing to the
                       Committee on the cyclical financial audits it had conducted of courts and
                       federal defender offices. The Committee discussed whether the scope of these
                       audits addresses the highest risks facing the federal judiciary, and asked the
                       Administrative Office to analyze the costs and benefits of different audit
                       approaches. Another independent audit firm briefed the Committee on
                       cyclical audits of community defender organization grantees and Chapter 7
                       bankruptcy trustees, as well as a special audit of a Chapter 13 bankruptcy
                       trustee. In addition, the Committee endorsed a set of recommendations to


                                                               7
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 11, 2012


                      improve the Administrative Office’s management and program reviews of
                      court and federal defender organizations.


             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
             OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                      CONTINUING NEED FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                               In accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(3), the Judicial Conference
                      conducts a comprehensive review of all judicial districts every other year to
                      assess the continuing need for authorized bankruptcy judgeships. By
                      December 31 of each even-numbered year, the Conference reports to Congress
                      its findings and any recommendations for the elimination of any authorized
                      bankruptcy judgeship position that can be eliminated when a vacancy exists by
                      reason of resignation, retirement, removal, or death. On recommendation of
                      the Bankruptcy Committee, which relied on the results of the 2012 continuing
                      needs survey, the Conference agreed to take the following actions:

                      a.       Recommend to Congress that no bankruptcy judgeship be statutorily
                               eliminated; and

                      b.       Advise the Eighth Circuit Judicial Council with regard to the District
                               of South Dakota and the Northern District of Iowa, and the Ninth
                               Circuit Judicial Council with regard to the District of Alaska, to
                               consider not filling vacancies in those districts that currently exist or
                               may occur by reason of resignation, retirement, removal, or death, until
                               there is a demonstrated need to do so.


                      RECALL OF RETIRED BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

                              National Standards. Under 28 U.S.C. § 155(b), a retired bankruptcy
                      judge may, with the judge’s consent, be recalled to serve as a bankruptcy
                      judge in any judicial district if approved by the judicial council of the circuit
                      within which the district is located. To ensure effective oversight of the recall
                      program, the Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                      recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, amending the
                      regulations governing the ad hoc recall (for a fixed period not to exceed one
                      year and a day) and extended service recall (for a fixed period of more than

                                                               8
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 11, 2012


                       one year but not more than three years) of retired bankruptcy judges (Guide to
                       Judiciary Policy, Vol. 3, Chs. 9 and 10) to—

                       (a)      establish national standards for approval of recall of retired bankruptcy
                                judges and for approval of staff for recalled judges;

                       (b)      provide for Bankruptcy Committee approval of any request for funds
                                for a recall of a retired bankruptcy judge that exceeds $10,000 in
                                judicial salary, Office of Personnel Management annuity
                                reimbursement, travel, and subsistence, and any request for staff for a
                                recalled bankruptcy judge;

                       (c)      establish October 1, 2012, as the effective date for the amended
                                regulations and authorize all bankruptcy judges serving on recall at the
                                time the amended regulations become effective, as well as all staff to
                                recalled judges on-board at that time, to complete their current terms,
                                notwithstanding the amendments to the regulations; and

                       (d)      make non-substantive, stylistic changes.

                       See infra, p. 28, “Recall of Retired Magistrate Judges,” for similar
                       amendments to the regulations governing the recall of retired magistrate
                       judges.

                               Background Investigations. Bankruptcy judges must undergo a full-
                       field background investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
                       prior to taking office for a 14-year term. However, no further background
                       investigation has been required when a retired bankruptcy judge agrees to
                       recall duty after a break in service. To help ensure that individuals selected
                       for recall service meet the appropriate standard of trust and confidence
                       necessary for maintaining the integrity of the office, the Committee
                       recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, amendments to the ad
                       hoc and extended service recall regulations for retired bankruptcy judges
                       (Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 3, Ch. 9 and Ch. 10), to—

                        (a)     require that any bankruptcy judge who is eligible and consents to serve
                                on recall, and has been approved for recall service, but has been
                                separated from federal judicial service for more than 1 year but not
                                more than 10 years, be subject to a name and fingerprint check by the
                                FBI, a tax check by the Internal Revenue Service, and a credit check by
                                the Office of Personnel Management; and


                                                                9
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 11, 2012


                      (b)      require that a bankruptcy judge who is eligible and consents to serve
                               on recall, and has been approved for recall service, but has been
                               separated from federal judicial service for more than 10 years, be
                               subject to a full-field background investigation by the FBI with a
                               15-year scope.


                      OFFICIAL DUTY STATION

                             On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, and in accordance
                      with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(1), the Judicial Conference approved a request from
                      the Eighth Circuit Judicial Council and the District of South Dakota to
                      authorize the designation of Sioux Falls as the official duty station for
                      Bankruptcy Judge Charles L. Nail, Jr.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                      reported that it continues to discuss cost-containment initiatives and encourage
                      shared services to assist the judiciary in addressing its current and anticipated
                      budget situation and to assist the bankruptcy courts in the effective use of
                      judicial resources in districts with severe workload pressure. To increase
                      oversight of the bankruptcy administrator program, the Bankruptcy Committee
                      endorsed a centralized solicitation and contracting process for audits of
                      chapter 13 trustee offices that will be administered by the AO. The
                      Bankruptcy Committee recommended that the Director of the AO approve the
                      study and reports required by the Dodd-Frank Act on the efficiency and
                      effectiveness of the Bankruptcy Code and submit the reports to Congress.


             COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
                      FISCAL YEAR 2014 BUDGET REQUEST
                              .
                              Taking into consideration the limited funding Congress is likely to
                      have available in fiscal year 2014, as well as the resources the judiciary
                      requires to continue functioning effectively, the Committee on the Budget
                      recommended to the Judicial Conference a fiscal year 2014 budget request that
                      is 2.4 percent higher than assumed fiscal year 2013 appropriations. The
                      Judicial Conference approved the Budget Committee’s budget request for

                                                             10
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 11, 2012


                       fiscal year 2014, subject to amendments necessary as a result of (a) new
                       legislation, (b) actions of the Judicial Conference, or (c) any other reason the
                       Executive Committee considers necessary and appropriate.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Budget reported that it discussed the Budget
                       Control Act and its potential impact on the judiciary if the across-the-board
                       cuts (sequestration) are implemented in January 2013. The Committee will
                       continue its congressional outreach efforts to key congressional members and
                       will bring to the members’ attention the impact sequestration could have on
                       the judiciary, both nationally and locally. Considering the difficult budget
                       situation, the Budget Committee also discussed the need to accelerate several
                       high profile cost-containment initiatives. The Budget Committee will
                       continue to seek opportunities to increase judge and staff awareness about cost
                       containment.


              COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in March 2012, the Committee received 20
                       new written inquiries and issued 18 written advisory responses. During this
                       period, the average response time was 14 days. In addition, the
                       Committee chair responded to 42 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                       members responded to 110 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                       responded to 359 informal inquiries.


              COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
              AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                        SHARED ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES

                                As part of a judiciary-wide cost-containment initiative, the Committee
                        on Court Administration and Case Management was asked to develop
                        strategies and mechanisms for the sharing of administrative services among

                                                               11
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 11, 2012


                       court units, with the goal of achieving savings while at the same time
                       preserving effective court operations. Expressing the view that a collaborative
                       effort within every district and circuit was necessary to effectively implement
                       shared administrative services, the Committee recommended that the Judicial
                       Conference request the individual court units within each district (district
                       court, probation and pretrial services office, and bankruptcy court) to work
                       together to adopt a shared administrative services plan. The plans should be
                       submitted to the chief judge of the circuit and the circuit executive, and be
                       provided to the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management by
                       February 15, 2013. The Conference approved the Committee’s
                       recommendation.


                       PRINTING OF OPINIONS

                               Noting that there appears to be little, if any, reason why slip opinions
                       cannot be transmitted electronically, the Committee recommended that the
                       Judicial Conference endorse the elimination of central funding for the printing
                       of court of appeals slip opinions, with a one-year exception for courts that
                       have contracted with vendors, prior to September 11, 2012, for services to be
                       provided in FY 2013. The Committee also recommended that the Conference
                       encourage courts to use electronic dissemination in lieu of printing. After
                       discussion, the Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                       MISCELLANEOUS FEES

                              Transfer of Claim Fee. Noting that approximately 1.6 million
                       bankruptcy claims are transferred each year, the Committee recommended that
                       the Conference amend the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule to
                       add a $25 fee for filing a transfer of claim, to be effective on May 1, 2013.
                       The Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.

                               Fees Based on the Chapter 11 Filing Fee. Several items on the
                       Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule are intended to be equal to the
                       Chapter 11 filing fee prescribed in 28 U.S.C. § 1930(a)(3). Since the Chapter
                       11 filing fee was recently raised from $1,000 to $1,167 by the Temporary
                       Bankruptcy Judgeships Act of 2012, Pub. L. No. 112-121, the Committee
                       recommended conforming amendments to the Bankruptcy Court
                       Miscellaneous Fee Schedule. The Conference approved the Committee’s
                       recommendation to increase from $1,000 to $1,167 the filing fees for

                                                              12
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 September 11, 2012


                        reopening a Chapter 11 case (Item 11, bullet 2), dividing a joint Chapter 11
                        case filed under 11 U.S.C. § 302 (Item 18, bullet 2), and filing a Chapter 15
                        case (Item 15), effective November 21, 2012.

                               Administrative Fee. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                        Conference amended the District Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule to add a
                        $50 administrative fee for filing a civil action, suit, or proceeding in a district
                        court. This fee does not apply to persons granted in forma pauperis status
                        under 28 U.S.C. § 1915 and will become effective May 1, 2013.

                                Electronic Public Access. The Committee recommended amendments
                        to the Electronic Public Access Fee Schedule to raise the record search fee
                        (Item III) from $26 to $30, and the returned check fee (Item V) from $45 to
                        $53, to adjust those fees for inflation. The Conference adopted the
                        Committee’s recommendation, effective October 1, 2012.


                        LEGAL RESEARCH MATERIALS

                                In furtherance of the judiciary’s ongoing cost-containment efforts, the
                        Committee recommended several amendments to the judiciary’s policy on
                        legal research materials, Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 21, Ch. 3, particularly
                        with regard to law book collections. The amendments would encourage
                        sharing of resources within a courthouse and across circuits to avoid costly
                        subscriptions for chambers; encourage judges to consult with librarians
                        regarding alternate, less costly sources; and replace the list of suggested titles
                        for chambers collections with more general suggestions that emphasize cost
                        control and avoid implying an entitlement to a particular title. The Committee
                        also recommended minor technical changes to the policy. The Judicial
                        Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                        RECORDS MANAGEMENT

                                The Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference amend the
                        records disposition schedule for bankruptcy courts to add a retention period
                        for miscellaneous bankruptcy records (e.g., records of administrative actions),
                        as well as for attorney disbarment proceedings. The Conference adopted the
                        Committee’s recommendation. The schedule will be transmitted to the
                        National Archives and Records Administration for acceptance of the changes.


                                                                 13
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 11, 2012



                       PUBLIC ACCESS TO DISTRICT AND BANKRUPTCY COURT
                       OPINIONS

                               In March 2010, the Judicial Conference approved a joint pilot project
                       with the Government Printing Office (GPO) to provide access to judicial
                       opinions through GPO’s Federal Digital System (FDsys), which is an
                       advanced, internet-based digital system that allows searches across opinions
                       and across courts (JCUS-MAR 10, p. 9; see also JCUS-MAR 11, p. 12). At
                       this session, after considering the amount of access and searchability the pilot
                       provides and the positive feedback received, the Committee recommended
                       that the Conference approve national implementation of the program and
                       encourage all courts, at the discretion of the chief judge, to participate in the
                       program. The Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                       reported that it endorsed several policy recommendations from its CM/ECF
                       subcommittee regarding the Next Generation of CM/ECF system, including
                       possible rules amendments for consideration by the Committee on Rules of
                       Practice and Procedure. The Committee also agreed that a comprehensive
                       review of both the standard and local CM/ECF event dictionaries was
                       necessary to ensure the effectiveness of many of the requirements for the Next
                       Generation system. With regard to the challenges of handling civil pro se
                       litigation, the Committee agreed to draft revisions to the Conference’s attorney
                       admission fund guidelines to explain permissible uses of the fund for pro se
                       litigant programs or resources and to obtain more information on how courts
                       process pro se cases more efficiently and effectively. It also asked the
                       Administrative Office to perform a Methods Analysis Program review on
                       courts’ handling of civil pro se litigation to identify best practices in this area.


             COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                      SUPERVISION OF FEDERAL OFFENDERS, MONOGRAPH 109

                              Supervision of Federal Offenders, Monograph 109 (Monograph), Guide
                      to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 8, Part E, § 450.10, authorizes probation officers to
                      make limited disclosures to law enforcement agencies of information about

                                                               14
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                    September 11, 2012


                       offenders, but provides no examples of the kind of information that may be
                       released. The Committee on Criminal Law noted that disclosure of certain
                       information is required by statute and should be specified in the Monograph,
                       and that disclosure of other information, such as a photograph of the offender,
                       could facilitate law enforcement agency identification and supervision of
                       offenders and should be enumerated as well. On recommendation of the
                       Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial Conference amended the Monograph
                       to clarify the types of information that a probation officer may disclose.


                       JUDGE-IDENTIFYING SENTENCING DATA

                              Reacting to a number of requests made to the U.S. Sentencing
                       Commission from the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of
                       Representatives for judge-specific and judge-identifying sentencing
                       information, the Committee on Criminal law recommended that the Conference
                       adopt the following statement in order to clarify the judiciary’s policy on that
                       topic:

                                That, because the independence of the federal judiciary requires
                                that judges make case-related decisions freely in accordance
                                with the law and without fear or intimidation, the Judicial
                                Conference—

                                a.         re-affirm its existing positions with regard to the release
                                           of judge-specific sentencing data by judicial branch
                                           organizations, and

                                b.         with regard to judge-identifying information, specifically
                                           oppose any:

                                           i.     effort to hold judges individually accountable for their
                                                  sentencing decisions except through established
                                                  processes for appellate review;

                                           ii.    congressional use of judge-identifying sentencing data
                                                  for the purpose of singling out individual judges for
                                                  denigration, harassment, questioning, or retaliation; and




                                                                   15
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 11, 2012


                                       iii.   release to Congress of judge-identifying data by the
                                              Sentencing Commission in the continuing absence of an
                                              articulated legitimate legislative purpose for acquiring
                                              such data.

                      After discussion, the Conference declined to adopt this statement.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it received a report on
                      the Department of Justice’s efforts to manage the cases of civilly committed
                      sexually dangerous persons and the need for close collaboration among the
                      Bureau of Prisons, U.S. attorneys’ offices, and probation offices when
                      developing release plans in these cases. The Federal Judicial Center provided
                      the Committee with a report on the status of its study of federal reentry court
                      programs, which is designed to assess the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of
                      these programs and assist the Committee in recommending appropriate models
                      for use by the courts. The Committee also received an update on the
                      implementation of evidence-based practices in the probation and pretrial
                      services system, including the adoption of the pretrial and post-conviction risk
                      assessments.


             COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
                      CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT GUIDELINES

                               To address possible concerns regarding familial relationships among
                      individuals providing services on the same Criminal Justice Act (CJA)
                      representation, the Committee on Defender Services recommended that the
                      Judicial Conference amend the CJA guidelines for non-capital and capital cases
                      (Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 7A) to require the following notifications:

                      (a)      appointed counsel should notify the presiding judge, prior to engaging
                               relatives for compensable services (other than as associate counsel in
                               the same law firm), of the relationship and the services to be provided;
                               and

                      (b)      counsel should notify the presiding judge, prior to an appointment or as
                               soon as practicable, if counsel is aware that he or she is related to any

                                                              16
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 11, 2012


                                attorney on the same representation or being considered for
                                appointment on the same representation.

                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Defender Services considered applications from
                       seven courts of appeals and allocated among six circuits the four new
                       case-budgeting attorney positions to be included in the FY 2013 financial plan,
                       subject to the availability of funding. The Committee approved a training plan
                       for federal defender staff and CJA panel attorneys for FY 2013 that is limited
                       to the reduced training spending it authorized for FY 2012. The Committee
                       received a preliminary assessment of the use of coordinating discovery
                       attorneys, contractors who assist CJA panel attorneys and federal defender staff
                       with the management of large volumes of discovery.


              COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it discussed
                       proposed legislation regarding domestic violence in Indian country that had
                       been incorporated into bills to reauthorize grant programs under the Violence
                       Against Women Act. The provisions of S. 1925, 112th Congress, would
                       expand criminal and civil authority of tribal courts over non-Indians accused of
                       domestic violence occurring in Indian country, and the provisions of H.R.
                       4970, 112th Congress, would authorize federal courts to issue civil protection
                       orders to protect victims of domestic violence in Indian country. The
                       Committee also received a status report on a joint project of federal and state
                       courts to develop resources to improve cooperation among courts regarding
                       related litigation filed in multiple jurisdictions. Draft legislation (the proposed
                       United States Court of International Trade Modernization and Trade
                       Facilitation Act) to consolidate in the Court of International Trade certain
                       actions related to international trade was also reviewed by the Committee.




                                                               17
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 11, 2012


             COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                      DISCHARGE OF STATUTORY DUTY UNDER 5 U.S.C. APP. § 104(B)

                              A Judicial Conference member sought to have the Conference discuss
                      the issue of how the Conference discharges its statutory duty, under 5 U.S.C.
                      app. § 104(b), to determine whether an individual has willfully failed to file a
                      financial disclosure report or has willfully falsified or failed to include required
                      information in such a report. On the Conference floor, the member moved to
                      disapprove the most recent report of the Committee on Financial Disclosure
                      and require the Committee to file amended reports that provide information
                      about Committee actions taken pursuant to the authority delegated to it by the
                      Conference to carry out duties under 5 U.S.C. app. § 104(b). The Judicial
                      Conference decided to postpone consideration of the motion so that the
                      Committee may first consider the matter and report back to the Conference.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that it determined to
                      undertake a detailed review of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as well
                      as of the Conference’s legislative proposal to amend the Act to establish
                      separate financial disclosure requirements for the judiciary, and other
                      proposals, to determine whether there are changes that might facilitate the
                      financial disclosure process but not cause additional difficulties for the filers or
                      the judiciary. As a result of progress in the development of the Financial
                      Disclosure Online Filing System (FiDO), Committee staff is working with staff
                      in the White House, the Department of Justice, and the appropriate Senate
                      committees to permit the electronic filing and review of the financial disclosure
                      reports of judicial nominees, which will expedite review of these reports. As of
                      July 1, 2012, the Committee had received 3,651 financial disclosure reports
                      and certifications for calendar year 2011, including 1,169 reports and
                      certifications from Supreme Court justices, Article III judges, and judicial
                      officers of special courts; 325 reports from bankruptcy judges; 519 reports from
                      magistrate judges; and 1,638 reports from judicial employees.




                                                              18
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 11, 2012


               COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                       SINGLE NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE

                               On recommendation of the Committee on Information Technology, the
                       Judicial Conference agreed to require that a single information technology
                       network infrastructure be installed in new buildings, new annexes, newly
                       leased space, and repairs and alteration projects where new space is being
                       configured for use by multiple court units. Exceptions to this policy must be
                       approved by the appropriate circuit judicial council and, if approved, any
                       increased costs, including facilities-related costs, resulting from duplicate
                       infrastructure must be funded locally. The Committee cited the additional
                       costs for duplicate equipment, installation, and maintenance, as well as higher
                       ongoing costs for space, power, HVAC (heating ventilation, and air
                       conditioning), and other facilities-related requirements as reasons for
                       recommending the policy change.


                       LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

                               Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612 and on recommendation of the Committee
                       on Information Technology, the Judicial Conference approved the fiscal year
                       2013 update to the Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the
                       Federal Judiciary. Funds for the judiciary’s information technology program
                       will be spent in accordance with this plan.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Information Technology reported that it discussed a
                       number of initiatives that will result in operational efficiencies, long-term cost
                       savings, cost avoidances, and improved information technology (IT)
                       capabilities for the judiciary. These include implementation of a national
                       internet protocol telephone service and a national videoconferencing service; a
                       reduction in the number of national data centers; centralization of the
                       judiciary’s e-mail servers; provision of virtual servers to courts over the
                       judiciary’s wide-area network; establishment of data exchange standards and an
                       enterprise registry of web services for applications developed by the judiciary;
                       and consolidation of the judiciary’s data warehouse systems. The Committee
                       endorsed policies requiring each court to maintain an IT security log and to
                       develop an IT security incident response plan, as well as security standards for

                                                              19
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 11, 2012


                      mobile devices and standards for passwords used to access the judiciary’s
                      national identity authentication system.


            COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 96 intercircuit
                      assignments were undertaken by 74 Article III judges from January 1, 2012, to
                      June 30, 2012. During this time, the Committee continued to disseminate
                      information about the intercircuit assignment process and aided courts
                      requesting assistance by identifying and obtaining judges willing to take
                      assignments.


             COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                      involvement in rule of law and judicial reform programs throughout the world,
                      highlighting activities in Africa, East Asia and the Pacific, Europe and Eurasia,
                      Latin America and the Caribbean, and the Middle East. Briefing reports about
                      international rule of law activities were provided by the Department of State,
                      the Department of Justice, the United States Agency for International
                      Development, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the Open World
                      Program of the Library of Congress, the Deputy Secretary General of the
                      United Nations, the Director of the United Nations’ Rule of Law Unit, the
                      United States Mission to the United Nations, the Federal Judicial Center, and
                      U.S. court administrators. The Committee also reported on briefings of foreign
                      delegations of jurists and judicial personnel hosted at the Administrative
                      Office.




                                                             20
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 11, 2012


              COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
                       JUDGES’ TRAVEL REGULATIONS

                               On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
                       Judicial Conference approved an amendment to section 250.40.20(b) of the
                       Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, Guide to Judiciary
                       Policy, Vol. 19, Ch. 2, to clarify that whenever a judge is provided a
                       continental breakfast in connection with a judiciary meeting and the continental
                       breakfast consists of more than “light refreshments” as defined under judiciary
                       policy, the judge’s subsistence allowance should be reduced accordingly.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it developed, in
                       cooperation with the Administrative Office, a “toolbox” that can be used by
                       appellate courts, district courts, and bankruptcy courts to enhance their external
                       internet websites. The Committee also received reports from the
                       Transportation Security Administration and the Administrative Office
                       concerning an initiative to expedite the security screening of federal judges and
                       other “trusted travelers” at airports. In addition, the Committee recommended
                       a new judiciary-wide policy on conference and meeting planning, which was
                       adopted by the Executive Committee on behalf of the Judicial Conference (see
                       supra, “Meeting Planning and Administration Policy,” p. 5).


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that
                       although no petitions for review are currently pending before it under the
                       Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-364, it has conferred
                       confidentially with circuit chief judges and other judges concerning certain
                       matters relating to administration of the Act. In addition, the Committee and
                       its staff continue to address courts’ inquiries regarding the judicial misconduct
                       and disability complaint process.




                                                              21
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 11, 2012




             COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                      STAFFING FORMULAS

                              Bankruptcy Clerks’ Offices. On recommendation of the Committee on
                      Judicial Resources, the Judicial Conference agreed to replace the existing
                      staffing formula for bankruptcy clerks’ offices with six formulas that
                      accommodate the differences in court size in determining staffing needs. The
                      Conference approved separate staffing formulas for bankruptcy courts with
                      one, two, three, four-to-six, seven-to-ten, and 24 authorized judgeships,
                      respectively, for implementation beginning in fiscal year 2013. In addition, to
                      reduce staffing volatility from year to year, on the Committee’s
                      recommendation, the Conference agreed that staffing formula calculations for a
                      given fiscal year should be weighted by using 60 percent of workload data from
                      the statistical year (July 1 to June 30) immediately preceding that fiscal year
                      and 40 percent of workload data from the statistical year that ended 15 months
                      before the start of that fiscal year.

                               Shared Administrative Services Component. At its August 2011
                      meeting, the Executive Committee endorsed a number of cost-containment
                      initiatives, one of which was to incorporate a shared administrative services
                      component into new staffing formulas being developed for the bankruptcy and
                      district court clerks’ offices. To assist in this endeavor, the Court
                      Administration and Case Management Committee developed a list of
                      administrative services considered suitable for sharing, including human
                      resources, education and training, finance, budget, information technology,
                      property management, contracts and procurement, space and facilities, mail
                      room management, and continuity of operations (COOP) and emergency
                      planning. Extensive input was sought and received from the court community
                      on how to implement the shared administrative services initiative. Of the
                      issues raised by court personnel, two in particular generated concerns:
                      (a) whether to include a shared administrative services component in the
                      bankruptcy clerks’ offices staffing formula for fiscal year 2013 or defer it until
                      2014 when the district clerks’ offices staffing formula would be ready for
                      adoption; and (b) whether to include information technology, budget, and
                      finance functions in the sharing component. After considering these issues, the
                      Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, a shared
                      administrative services component for use with the new staffing formulas for
                      bankruptcy clerks’ offices with the following stipulations:


                                                             22
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 11, 2012


                       a.       Presumed shared administrative services reductions would be deferred
                                in fiscal year 2013;

                       b.       Presumed shared administrative services reductions for fiscal year 2014
                                would exclude information technology, budget, and finance functions;

                       c.       Presumed shared administrative services reductions for fiscal year 2015
                                would exclude budget and finance functions, but include an appropriate
                                percentage of information technology functions, currently estimated at
                                19 percent; and

                       d.       Presumed shared administrative services reductions for fiscal year 2016
                                would exclude budget and finance functions, but would include all
                                information technology functions.

                                Pro Se Law Clerks. In response to requests from a number of courts,
                       the Committee on Judicial Resources agreed to revisit the staffing formula
                       for pro se law clerks, which was adopted in September 2009 (JCUS-SEP 09,
                       p. 20), to determine whether the types of cases considered in the formula
                       should continue to be limited to prisoner litigation only, or should include
                       other types of cases, such as social security cases and pro se non-prisoner,
                       non-social security cases. Also, in light of the judiciary’s continuing need for
                       cost containment, the Committee revisited the formula’s provision of at least
                       one pro se law clerk in districts earning any pro se law clerk credit, and the
                       decision in 2009 to grandfather then-current pro se law clerks until the number
                       of on-board pro se law clerks equaled the number authorized by the staffing
                       formula. After a comprehensive work measurement study, the Committee
                       recommended that the Conference take the following actions:

                       a.       Establish a staffing formula for pro se law clerks in fiscal year 2013
                                based on prisoner cases only, providing a credit of 13.4 hours per civil
                                rights case for nature of suit codes 540 (Mandamus & Other), 550
                                (Civil Rights), 555 (Prison Condition), and 560 (Civil Detainee -
                                Conditions of Confinement); and a credit of 8.3 hours per habeas
                                corpus case for nature of suit codes 463 (Alien Detainee (Prisoner
                                Petition)), 510 (Motions to Vacate Sentence), 530 (General), and
                                535 (Death Penalty);

                       b.       Retain the two-year stabilization policy, which requires prisoner case
                                filings to drop below a staffing threshold for two consecutive years
                                before decreasing staff allocations;


                                                               23
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 11, 2012


                      c.       Eliminate the one full-time equivalent minimum allocation per district
                               and allocate pro se law clerk positions in 0.5 full-time equivalent
                               increments;

                      d.       Eliminate grandfathering for pro se law clerks with the implementation
                               of the new formula;

                      e.       Defer until December 31, 2013, termination of current minimum
                               staffing and grandfathered pro se law clerks;

                      f.       Provide no additional resources for cases that do not involve a
                               prisoner-plaintiff, including civil rights and social security cases; and

                      g.       Encourage sharing or pooling of pro se law clerks and death penalty law
                               clerks to enable the most efficient and effective use of resources.

                      The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                      TYPE II CHIEF DEPUTY CLERK

                               In September 2004, the Judicial Conference authorized any unit in a
                      district or bankruptcy court with ten or more authorized judgeships to establish
                      a second Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP)-16 Type II deputy position upon
                      notification to the Administrative Office, to be funded with the court’s
                      decentralized funds (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 23). The Central District of California
                      has requested authorization and full funding (i.e., from centralized funds) for a
                      third JSP-16 Type II chief deputy clerk position for its district clerk’s office,
                      citing the size of the court’s staff, the number of judges supported, and the
                      number of court locations and building projects in the district. The Committee
                      noted that this request for a third Type II chief deputy was the first of its kind
                      and would require an exception to the September 2004 policy. After
                      consideration of the unique challenges confronting the Central District of
                      California, the Committee recommended that the Conference authorize the
                      requested position, but require that it be funded only from the court’s
                      decentralized funds. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
                      recommendation.




                                                               24
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 11, 2012



                       HIGHEST PREVIOUS RATE RULE

                               The highest previous rate rule is a pay-setting flexibility that allows an
                       appointing official in a court or federal public defender organization to
                       consider the highest rate of base pay previously received by an employee in a
                       federal civilian position when setting that employee’s pay upon re-employment,
                       transfer, reassignment, promotion, demotion, or change in type of appointment.
                       Within the appropriate pay grade or classification level, the pay may be set at
                       any rate from step one through the lowest step that is equal to, or exceeds, the
                       highest previous rate. Currently, the rule may only be applied at the time an
                       employee takes a qualifying position. In order to provide appointing authorities
                       greater discretion in using this tool, the Committee recommended, and the
                       Conference agreed, that the rule be amended to permit courts to use the highest
                       previous rate rule prospectively at any time within one year of re-employment,
                       or within one year of the last transfer, reassignment, promotion, demotion, or
                       change in type of appointment. This would allow courts to create a
                       “probationary” period before applying the highest previous rate rule, if
                       warranted. Federal public defender organizations are excluded from the change
                       in the rule to maintain pay parity with United States attorneys offices.


                       HONORARY AWARDS

                               An honorary award is a gesture of formal and symbolic recognition of
                       an employee’s significant contribution and value to the judiciary or to a court,
                       and may consist of any symbolic item that does not convey a sense of monetary
                       value. The maximum cost for all non-monetary awards (which include both
                       honorary and informal recognition awards) is $100 per court employee, per
                       year. Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 12, Ch. 8, §§ 830.35(b) and 830.36. In
                       response to requests from the courts for more flexibility in the granting of such
                       awards, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference modify its
                       policy on honorary awards to allow courts to—

                       a.       Incur the reasonable cost associated with engraving or other
                                personalization of an honorary award;

                       b.       Provide a plaque in addition to a framed certificate or court seal for a
                                retiring employee, subject to the $100 per court employee, per year
                                limitation; and



                                                                25
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 11, 2012


                      c.       Permit probation and pretrial services officers to receive their
                               nonfunctional deactivated badges and/or credentials at retirement,
                               subject to the $100 per court employee, per year limitation.

                      The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                      TRANSCRIPT RATES

                              In September 1991, the Judicial Conference adopted guidelines to
                      regulate the sale of transcripts on computer diskettes (JCUS-SEP 91, p. 66).
                      Noting that diskettes are no longer a preferred method for delivering electronic
                      transcripts, the Committee recommended, and the Conference approved, the
                      revision of the September 1991 transcript rates policy and guidelines to reflect
                      newer technologies.


                      MODEL EMPLOYMENT DISPUTE RESOLUTION PLAN

                              The judiciary provides communication channels through which court
                      and federal public defender employees may report violations of law or
                      suspected fraud, waste, abuse, or mismanagement of funds by employees or by
                      entities doing business with the court (known as “whistleblowing”). However,
                      the judiciary did not provide a specific administrative remedy for employees
                      who face adverse personnel actions as a result of whistleblowing, such as that
                      provided to executive branch employees in the Whistleblower Protection Act
                      of 1989, 5 U.S.C. § 2302(b)(8). On recommendation of the Committee, the
                      Judicial Conference amended the 2010 Model Employment Dispute Resolution
                      Plan to provide whistleblower protection to employees.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that its budget request to
                      the Budget Committee for fiscal year 2014 is 2.2 percent above fiscal year 2013
                      assumed funding levels. The Committee requested that the Administrative
                      Office conduct a comprehensive update on chambers issues, including
                      cost-containment considerations, the changing nature of chambers staff
                      administrative workload, and the variations in workload borne by chambers
                      staff. The Committee asked the Federal Judicial Center to conduct a
                      cost-benefit study of alternative dispute resolution in the district courts in

                                                              26
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 11, 2012


                       coordination with the comprehensive study on alternative dispute resolution
                       that the Federal Judicial Center is conducting on behalf of the Committee on
                       Court Administration and Case Management.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL SECURITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it continued its
                       discussion of cost-containment initiatives for the Court Security account arising
                       out of the September 2011 cost-containment summit of Conference committee
                       representatives, and was updated on the status of efforts that are currently
                       underway. In addition, the Committee was updated on the implementation of
                       the Capital Security Program, which is designed to assist courts at locations
                       that have security deficiencies but may not qualify for a new courthouse
                       building. The Committee also was briefed on the status of the Judicial Facility
                       Security Program and on ongoing initiatives to provide security education and
                       training for judges.


              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
              OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                       CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                               After considering the report of the Committee on the Administration of
                       the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of the Administrative
                       Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Judicial
                       Conference agreed to (a) redesignate the location of a full-time magistrate
                       judge position in the Western District of Oklahoma from Oklahoma City to
                       Lawton or Oklahoma City; and (b) reduce the salary of the full-time magistrate
                       judge position at Yellowstone National Park in the District of Wyoming from
                       80 percent of the salary of a full-time magistrate judge position (currently
                       $128,064 per annum) to 55 percent (currently $88,044 per annum).




                                                                27
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 11, 2012



                      RECALL OF RETIRED MAGISTRATE JUDGES

                               As part of the judiciary’s cost-containment efforts, the Committee on
                      the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System was asked to examine the
                      magistrate judge recall program to ensure effective use of recalled judges and
                      their staffs. Based on its review and after receiving input from judges and
                      court personnel, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference
                      amend its regulations governing the ad hoc and extended service recall of
                      retired magistrate judges (Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 3, Chs. 11 and 12) to
                      (a) provide for Magistrate Judges Committee approval of any request for staff
                      for recalled magistrate judges and any request for funds for recall of a retired
                      magistrate judge that exceeds $10,000 in judicial salary, Office of Personnel
                      Management annuity reimbursement, travel, and subsistence; (b) provide
                      workload standards for recalled magistrate judges when staff is requested; and
                      (c) make non-substantive, stylistic changes in the regulations. The Conference
                      adopted the Committee’s recommendations. See supra, pp. 8-9, “Recall of
                      Retired Bankruptcy Judges,” for similar amendments to the regulations
                      governing the recall of retired bankruptcy judges.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                      reported that during the period between the Committee’s December 2011 and
                      June 2012 meetings, the Committee chair approved filling vacancies in 20
                      full-time magistrate judge positions and one part-time magistrate judge position
                      in 18 district courts. At its June 2012 meeting, the Committee approved filling
                      five vacancies in magistrate judge positions and voted to defer consideration of
                      one request to fill a vacancy in light of the circuit judicial council’s decision to
                      defer consideration of the request until next year. The Committee also
                      determined to reevaluate the document entitled “Suggestions for Utilization of
                      Magistrate Judges,” which the Committee adopted in 1999 to identify and
                      encourage “best practices” in magistrate judge utilization, and the chair
                      appointed a subcommittee to undertake an initial review.




                                                              28
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 11, 2012


              COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
                       FEDERAL RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Appellate Rules 13 (Review of a
                       Decision of the Tax Court), 14 (Applicability of Other Rules to the Review of a
                       Tax Court Decision), 24 (Proceedings In Forma Pauperis), 28 (Briefs), and
                       28.1 (Cross-Appeals), and to Form 4 (Affidavit Accompanying Motion for
                       Permission to Appeal In Forma Pauperis), together with Committee Notes
                       explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference approved the amendments
                       and agreed to transmit them to the Supreme Court for its consideration with a
                       recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress
                       in accordance with the law.


                       FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1007 (Lists,
                       Schedules, Statements, and Other Documents Required), 4004 (Grant or Denial
                       of Discharge), 5009 (Closing Chapter 7 Liquidation, Chapter 12 Family
                       Farmer’s Debt Adjustment, Chapter 13 Individual’s Debt Adjustment, and
                       Chapter 15 Ancillary and Cross-Border Cases), 9006 (Computing and
                       Extending Time), 9013 (Motions: Form and Service), and 9014 (Contested
                       Motions), together with Committee Notes explaining their purpose and intent.
                       The Conference approved the amendments and agreed to transmit them to the
                       Supreme Court for its consideration with a recommendation that they be
                       adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.

                               The Committee also submitted to the Judicial Conference proposed
                       revisions of Official Bankruptcy Forms 7 (Statement of Financial Affairs),
                       9A–9I (Notice of Commencement of Case Under the Bankruptcy Code,
                       Meeting of Creditors, and Deadlines), 10 (Proof of Claim), and 21 (Statement
                       of Social-Security Number or Individual Taxpayer-Identification Number
                       (ITIN)). The Conference approved the revised forms to take effect on
                       December 1, 2012.




                                                             29
Judicial Conference of the United States                                          September 11, 2012



                      FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Civil Rules 37 (Failure to Make
                      Disclosures or to Cooperate in Discovery; Sanctions) and 45 (Subpoena),
                      together with Committee Notes explaining their purpose and intent. The
                      Conference approved the amendments and agreed to transmit them to the
                      Supreme Court for its consideration with a recommendation that they be
                      adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                      FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference a proposed amendment to Criminal Rule 11 (Pleas),
                      together with Committee Notes explaining its purpose and intent. The
                      Conference approved the amendment and agreed to transmit it to the Supreme
                      Court for the Court’s consideration with a recommendation that it be adopted
                      by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                      FEDERAL RULES OF EVIDENCE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference a proposed amendment to Evidence Rule 803 (Exception
                      to the Rules Against Hearsay — Regardless of Whether the Declarant is
                      Available as a Witness), together with Committee Notes explaining its purpose
                      and intent. The Conference approved the amendment and agreed to transmit it
                      to the Supreme Court for the Court’s consideration with a recommendation that
                      it be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the
                      law.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                      approved publishing for public comment proposed amendments to Appellate
                      Rule 6; Bankruptcy Rules 1014(b), 7004(e), 7008, 7012, 7016, 8001-8028,
                      9023, 9024, 9027, and 9033, and Official Forms 3A, 3B, 6I, 6J, 22A-1, 22A-2,
                      22B, 22C-1, and 22C-2; Criminal Rules 5(d) and 58; and Evidence Rules

                                                            30
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 11, 2012

                       801(d)(1)(B) and 803(6)-(8). Among the proposals are amendments to Part VIII
                       of the Bankruptcy Rules, which governs appeals to district courts and
                       bankruptcy appellate panels. The published proposals are the product of a
                       multi-year project to (1) bring the bankruptcy appellate rules into closer
                       alignment with the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure; (2) incorporate a
                       presumption favoring the electronic transmission, filing, and service of court
                       documents; and (3) adopt a clearer and simpler style.


              COMMITTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
                       CLOSURE OF NON-RESIDENT FACILITIES

                                In March 2006, the Judicial Conference approved a methodology for
                       determining whether a facility without a resident judge should be recommended
                       for closure (JCUS-MAR 06, p. 28). Under this methodology, a weighted
                       average of the scores for three criteria (facility usage, location, and building
                       condition) is compared to the score of a fourth criterion (building operating
                       cost) to come up with an overall closure score. In 2012, circuit judicial councils
                       were provided a list of all the non-resident facilities that were ranked using the
                       above methodology and asked to consider whether any of these facilities in their
                       circuits should be closed. Based upon the recommendations of the respective
                       circuit judicial councils and on the recommendation of the Committee on Space
                       and Facilities, the Conference endorsed the closure of six non-resident facilities
                       in the following locations: (a) Wilkesboro, North Carolina, upon the completion
                       of the renovation of the courthouse in Statesville, North Carolina; (b) Beaufort,
                       South Carolina, at the end of the lease term in 2014; (c) Meridian, Mississippi;
                       (d) Amarillo, Texas, upon the cancellation of the lease for the bankruptcy court
                       space at the earliest point at which it is economically feasible; (e) Pikeville,
                       Kentucky, to release the bankruptcy courtroom and chamber in leased space;
                       and (f) Gadsden, Alabama.


                       DESIGN GUIDE EXCEPTION

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       approved an exception to the U.S. Courts Design Guide for the chambers and
                       courtroom project in Clarksburg, West Virginia, which exceeds space standards
                       as a result of the configuration and layout of the existing space. The
                       Conference’s approval was subject to the following conditions: design may
                       begin, but (a) no construction can commence until (i) the judge to be replaced

                                                              31
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 11, 2012

                      provides formal notice that she will take senior status upon a date certain, and
                      (ii) the court commits that a district judge will reside in the chambers being
                      constructed; and (b) Component B funding for design and construction may not
                      be obligated until the beginning of fiscal year 2013.


                      CIRCUIT RENT BUDGET BUSINESS RULE

                               In September 2007, the Judicial Conference approved a circuit rent
                      budget allotment methodology and delegated to the Committee the authority to
                      adopt and amend business rules to implement the methodology (JCUS-SEP 07,
                      p. 36). Business Rule No. 1, as originally adopted, provided that when a court
                      unit released space, the rent savings was allotted to the circuit judicial council to
                      reuse immediately or to bank for later use wherever in the circuit the need arose.
                      In order to encourage court units to relinquish space, at this session, the
                      Committee recommended amending Business Rule No.1 to provide that when a
                      court unit releases space accepted by General Services Administration (GSA) as
                      marketable, an allotment equal to one year’s rental savings would be made
                      available for use within two years by the chief judge of the relevant court
                      (district, bankruptcy, or appellate), on behalf of the court unit that released the
                      space. That court could use the allotment to (a) fund requirements related to
                      space relinquishment, such as tenant alterations or furniture, or (b) fund other
                      activities or items necessary for their operations. Because this change would
                      shift certain authority from the circuits to individual courts, the Committee
                      recommended the change to the Conference rather than exercise its delegated
                      authority. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                      FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

                              On recommendation of the Committee on Space and Facilities, the
                      Judicial Conference approved the Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan for FYs
                      2014-2018, which moves the projects from the previous five-year plan up by
                      one year and adds supplemental design funding for Norfork, Virginia, in the first
                      year of the plan.1




             1
              Projects in Greenbelt, MD and Los Angeles, California had already been removed
             from the Five-Year Plan for FYs 2013-1017 in February 2012.

                                                               32
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 11, 2012



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that it is moving
                       forward with plans for FY 2013 and beyond for the Capital Security Program, in
                       close coordination with the Committee on Judicial Security, GSA, and the U.S.
                       Marshals Service (USMS). In May 2012, both the Space and Facilities
                       Committee and the Judicial Security Committee approved projects in the
                       following locations to undergo capital security studies for potential participation
                       in the Capital Security Program for FY 2013: (1) Raleigh, North Carolina;
                       (2) St. Thomas, Virgin Islands; (3) Texarkana, Texas; (4) Columbus, Georgia;
                       and (5) Monroe, Louisiana. Once the capital security studies are complete, the
                       judiciary, the GSA, and the USMS will select which projects, and specifically,
                       which security enhancement options proposed for each project, should be
                       recommended for participation in the program for FY 2013.


              FUNDING
                               All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                       funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                       the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                       establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                     Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                     Presiding




                                                               33
