REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


March 13, 2012


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on March 13, 2012, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                    First Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                Chief Judge Mark L. Wolf,
                                       District of Massachusetts

                    Second Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs
                                Judge Carol Bagley Amon,
                                       Eastern District of New York

                    Third Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                Chief Judge Gary L. Lancaster,
                                       Western District of Pennsylvania

                    Fourth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.

                                Chief Judge Deborah K. Chasanow,

                                       District of Maryland


                    Fifth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Edith Hollan Jones
                                Chief Judge Sarah S. Vance,
                                       Eastern District of Louisiana
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           March 13, 2012

                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alice M. Batchelder
                                           Judge Thomas A. Varlan,
                                                  Eastern District of Tennessee

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook
                                           Chief Judge Richard L. Young,
                                                  Southern District of Indiana

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Rodney W. Sippel,
                                                  Eastern District of Missouri

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alex Kozinski
                                           Judge Robert S. Lasnik,
                                                  Western District of Washington

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe
                                           Judge Robin J. Cauthron,
                                                  Western District of Oklahoma

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel F. Dubina
                                           Judge W. Louis Sands,
                                                  Middle District of Georgia

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge David Bryan Sentelle
                                           Chief Judge Royce C. Lamberth,
                                                  District of Columbia


                                                               2

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 13, 2012

                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Randall R. Rader

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Donald C. Pogue

                               The following Judicial Conference committee chairs attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Julia Smith Gibbons, Robert A.
                       Katzmann, Diarmuid F. O’Scannlain, John M. Rogers, Anthony J. Scirica,
                       Jeffrey S. Sutton, and Timothy M. Tymkovich; District Judges Nancy F. Atlas,
                       Robert Holmes Bell, Rosemary M. Collyer, Joy Flowers Conti, Claire V.
                       Eagan, Sidney A. Fitzwater, David A. Katz, George H. King, Mark R. Kravitz,
                       Joseph H. McKinley, Jr., J. Frederick Motz, Michael A. Ponsor, Julie A.
                       Robinson, and Richard W. Story; and Bankruptcy Judge Eugene R. Wedoff.
                       Attending as the magistrate judge and bankruptcy judge observers,
                       respectively, were Magistrate Judge Thomas C. Mummert III and Bankruptcy
                       Judge Michael E. Romero. Betsy Paret of the District of Columbia Circuit
                       represented the circuit executives.

                               Judge Thomas F. Hogan, Director of the Administrative Office of the
                       United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill C.
                       Sayenga, Deputy Director; Robert K. Loesche, General Counsel; Laura C.
                       Minor, Assistant Director, and Jeffrey A. Hennemuth, Deputy Assistant
                       Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Cordia A. Strom,
                       Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; and David A. Sellers, Assistant
                       Director, Public Affairs. District Judge Jeremy D. Fogel, Director, and John
                       S. Cooke, Deputy Director, Federal Judicial Center, and District Judge Patti B.
                       Saris, Chair, and Judith W. Sheon, Staff Director, United States Sentencing
                       Commission, were in attendance, as was Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to the
                       Chief Justice. Scott Harris, Supreme Court Counsel, and the 2011-2012
                       Supreme Court Fellows also observed the Conference proceedings.

                              Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., addressed the Conference on
                       matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice.
                       Senators Patrick J. Leahy, Jeff Sessions, and Thad Cochran spoke on matters
                       pending in Congress of interest to the Conference.




                                                                3

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 13, 2012

             REPORTS
                              Judge Hogan reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                      courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge Fogel
                      spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC) programs, and
                      Judge Saris reported on United States Sentencing Commission activities.
                      Judge Julia Smith Gibbons, Chair of the Committee on the Budget, presented
                      a report on the budget outlook.

             ELECTION

                              The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
                      Federal Judicial Center, for a term of four years, Judge Michael J. Melloy of
                      the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit and Judge Catherine C. Blake of
                      the District Court for the District of Maryland to succeed Judge Susan H.
                      Black of the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit and Chief Judge
                      Loretta A. Preska of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.


             EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
                      RESOLUTION

                              The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
                      Committee to adopt the following resolution recognizing the substantial
                      contributions made by Judge John Walker, Jr., chair of the Committee on
                      Judicial Conduct and Disability, whose term of service ended on January 26,
                      2012.

                               The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
                               appreciation, respect, and admiration the following judicial
                               officer:

                                           HONORABLE JOHN WALKER, JR.

                               Appointed as chair of the Committee on Judicial Conduct and
                               Disability by the Chief Justice of the United States, Judge
                               Walker has played a vital role in the administration of the
                               federal court system. He served with distinction as leader of
                               the Committee while, at the same time, continuing to perform
                               his duties as a judge in the United States Court of Appeals for

                                                              4

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 13, 2012

                                the Second Circuit. Judge Walker has set a standard of skilled
                                leadership and earned our deep respect and sincere gratitude for
                                his innumerable contributions. We acknowledge with
                                appreciation his commitment and dedicated service to the
                                Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.


                       FISCAL YEAR 2012 FINAL FINANCIAL PLANS

                               On February 1, 2012, after Congress enacted full fiscal year (FY) 2012
                       funding for the judiciary, the Executive Committee approved final FY 2012
                       financial plans for the Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Court
                       Security, and Fees of Jurors and Commissioners accounts. The approved
                       plans include funding (withheld in the interim FY 2012 financial plans) for
                       salary progression (i.e., step increases and routine promotions) for circuit unit,
                       court, chambers, and defender organization employees, and lift the previously
                       imposed freeze on cash awards and bonuses for those employees. In
                       approving the final plan for the Salaries and Expenses account, the Executive
                       Committee also endorsed a strategy for distributing court allotments among
                       the court programs.


                       FIVE-YEAR COMMITTEE SELF-EVALUATION AND
                       JURISDICTIONAL REVIEW

                               Every five years, each committee of the Judicial Conference must
                       recommend to the Executive Committee, with a justification, whether it
                       should be maintained or abolished (JCUS-SEP 87, p. 60). Pursuant to this
                       mandate, each committee completed and submitted to the Executive
                       Committee for consideration at the latter’s February 2012 meeting a self-
                       evaluation questionnaire that expressed the committee’s views about its
                       continuation, mission, functions, and structure. The Executive Committee
                       made no change to the committee structure itself, but agreed to update
                       outmoded language in the jurisdictional statement of the Committee on
                       Information Technology and to clarify the statement of the Space and
                       Facilities Committee regarding that committee’s role in overseeing program-
                       related budget and cost-containment initiatives. Each change was made at the
                       respective committee’s request. Also, at the request of the Committee on
                       Audits and Administrative Office Accountability, the Executive Committee
                       agreed to recommend that the Chief Justice expand the membership of that
                       committee by one member and require that one position on the committee be


                                                               5

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                   March 13, 2012

                       reserved for a bankruptcy judge.1 At its March 2012 meeting, the Executive
                       Committee also made minor technical revisions to the jurisdictional
                       statements of the Committees on Judicial Security, the Administration of the
                       Magistrate Judges System, and Space and Facilities.


                       COST CONTAINMENT

                               After hearing a report from the Budget Committee on the status of the
                       judiciary’s ongoing cost-containment efforts, Executive Committee members
                       expressed support for cost containment in general and for the steps already
                       taken or in progress by Conference committees to restrain spending and
                       improve efficiency in various programs. They also discussed ways to generate
                       additional support in the judiciary for such efforts, and to facilitate appropriate
                       action on further cost-containment measures, making requests to several
                       committees to explore specific initiatives. The Committee reiterated its
                       support for the efforts of the Court Administration and Case Management
                       Committee, aided by the Judicial Resources and Budget Committees and
                       others, to develop strategies for sharing administrative services among court
                       units and programs. However, it asked that efforts to promote sharing give
                       priority to intra-district and intra-circuit sharing in order to ensure that service
                       sharing be undertaken with due regard for the judiciary’s established
                       administrative and governance structures. The Committee also continued its
                       scrutiny of the judiciary’s annual financial plans to determine whether certain
                       funding items traditionally viewed as mandatory could be treated instead as
                       discretionary and therefore subject to across-the-board reductions to meet tight
                       budgets.


                       MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                               The Executive Committee —

                       •	      On recommendation of the Committee on Space and Facilities,
                               approved on behalf of the Judicial Conference a new Five-Year
                               Courthouse Project Plan for Fiscal Years 2013-2017 from which the
                               proposed courthouse annex project in Greenbelt, Maryland, has been
                               removed;



             1
                 The Chief Justice subsequently approved the request.

                                                                6

Judicial Conference of the United States 	                                            March 13, 2012

                       •	      On recommendation of the Committee on Space and Facilities,
                               approved on behalf of the Judicial Conference a lease-construct facility
                               in Eureka, California, contingent on written assurance from the Ninth
                               Circuit Judicial Council and the Northern District of California that a
                               full-time resident magistrate judge will be housed in the new facility
                               for the term of the lease and any lease extensions, and with the
                               understanding that the facility’s total rent may not exceed $411,598,
                               and no contingency or supplemental funding will be provided;

                       •	      Endorsed the Chief Justice’s selection of Judge Thomas F. Hogan as
                               the new Director of the Administrative Office;

                       •	      Determined to ask the Federal Judicial Center to conduct a survey of
                               judges to ascertain which resources they consider most (and least)
                               essential to performing their official duties;

                       •	      Amended the FY 2013 budget request to Congress to include funding
                               for salary progression; and

                       •	      On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
                               Case Management and at the request of the court, agreed on behalf of
                               the Conference to seek legislation that would make the following
                               changes in the divisions of the Northern District of Mississippi:
                               abolish the Delta Division; change the name of the Eastern Division to
                               the Aberdeen Division and the name of the Western Division to the
                               Oxford Division; realign counties among the divisions; and make
                               Clarksdale and Cleveland, Mississippi, places of holding court in the
                               Greenville Division.


              COMMITTEE ON AUDITS AND
              ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE ACCOUNTABILITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                       reported that it received briefings from two of the judiciary’s independent
                       audit firms on regularly scheduled audits, including audits of the judiciary’s
                       retirement trust funds, the Court Registry Investment System, the Central
                       Violations Bureau, the Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER)
                       system, and nationwide judiciary contracts. Each firm reported that the


                                                              7

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 13, 2012

                      judiciary had received positive “unqualified” opinions on all financial
                      statements reviewed and that no instances of failure to comply with applicable
                      laws, regulations, and contracts had been found. The Committee was also
                      briefed on an audit of the judiciary’s information technology internal controls
                      and on efforts recently completed or underway to strengthen these controls.


             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
             OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                      reported that it reaffirmed its support for the initiative to encourage court units
                      to voluntarily share administrative services. In addition, it approved revised
                      Guidelines of the Director Relating to the Administration of the Bankruptcy
                      Administrator Program, as well as publication of a revised Case Management
                      Manual for United States Bankruptcy Judges. The Committee provided its
                      views on two Next Generation of CM/ECF policy issues to the Committee on
                      Court Administration and Case Management and continues to explore ways to
                      more effectively use existing bankruptcy judicial resources to address severe
                      judicial workload pressures occurring in several districts.


             COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
                      BUDGET CAPS

                              In September 2007, the Judicial Conference adopted a 7.5 percent cap
                      on annual growth in the Defender Services account (excluding panel attorney
                      rate increases above annual inflation) and a 6.6 percent cap on annual growth
                      in the Court Security account, for fiscal years 2010 through 2017 (JCUS-SEP
                      07, p. 10). At this session, recognizing the continuing environment of fiscal
                      constraint, the Committee on the Budget, in consultation with the relevant
                      committees, recommended that for fiscal years 2014 through 2018, the budget
                      cap for the Defender Services account should be lowered to 4 percent,
                      maintaining the exception for increases in panel attorney rates above inflation,
                      and the cap for the Court Security account should be lowered to 5.2 percent.
                      The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.



                                                               8

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 13, 2012



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
                               The Committee on the Budget reported that it remains committed to
                       the judiciary’s two-pronged approach of congressional outreach and cost
                       containment in these difficult budget times. The Committee noted the better­
                       than-expected funding levels received from Congress for fiscal year 2012, but
                       stressed the need to convey to Congress the potential local impacts of resource
                       insufficiencies that could result from significant deficit reduction legislation,
                       such as the Budget Control Act. The Committee also developed a report to
                       the Executive Committee on the status of the judiciary’s cost-containment
                       efforts. The Committee expressed its appreciation for the seriousness with
                       which the program committees are engaging in cost containment, but it also
                       stated that given the current and expected worsening funding climate facing
                       the judiciary, it is essential that the judiciary complete and implement, as soon
                       as possible, as many of these initiatives as feasible.


              COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in September 2011, the Committee received 25 new
                       written inquiries and issued 24 written advisory responses. During this period,
                       the average response time for requests was 15 days. In addition, the
                       Committee chair responded to 138 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                       members responded to 144 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                       responded to 450 informal inquiries. The Committee discussed ongoing
                       efforts to enhance ethics education and information for judges and judiciary
                       employees and decided which topics to address in new advisory opinions.


              COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
              AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                       MISCELLANEOUS FEES

                             In September 2011, the Judicial Conference adjusted for inflation
                       many of the miscellaneous fees it prescribes for the courts. At this session, on
                       recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference adjusted two

                                                               9

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 13, 2012

                      additional miscellaneous fees for inflation (JCUS-SEP 11, pp. 14-16). It
                      raised the exemplification fee on the District Court Miscellaneous Fee
                      Schedule from $18 to $21 and it raised the record search fee on the Court of
                      Federal Claims Miscellaneous Fee Schedule from $26 to $30.


                      RECORDS DISPOSITION SCHEDULES

                              Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. At the request of the Clerk
                      of the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (Panel), the Administrative
                      Office conducted an appraisal of the Panel’s records and information assets.
                      Based on this appraisal, the Committee on Court Administration and Case
                      Management recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, a new
                      records disposition schedule for the Panel. The new schedule lists previously
                      unscheduled records, reduces retention periods for some records, and
                      eliminates records which are no longer in use. The schedule will be
                      transmitted to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) for
                      acceptance.

                              Court of Federal Claims. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                      Judicial Conference approved a revised records disposition schedule for the
                      United States Court of Federal Claims. The new schedule reflects the court’s
                      expanded jurisdiction and current work processes and reduces retention times
                      for certain files. The schedule will be transmitted to NARA for acceptance of
                      the changes.

                              Criminal Case Files. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                      Conference approved a revision of the district court records disposition
                      schedule for criminal case files to authorize the disposal of electronic sound
                      recordings of arraignments, pleas, and proceedings in connection with the
                      imposition of sentence, that are filed with the clerk in lieu of a transcript,
                      when those recordings are 20 years old. Previously, disposal was authorized
                      20 years after transfer to a Federal Records Center (FRC). However, some
                      courts retain the recordings for many years before transferring them to an
                      FRC. Paying storage costs for a full 20 years over and above the time held at
                      the courts was considered unnecessary. The schedule will be transmitted to
                      NARA for acceptance of the change.

                              Courts of Appeals. The Committee recommended revisions to the
                      records disposition schedule for the courts of appeals to provide, among other
                      things, that appellate records will be retained at FRCs until they have been
                      closed for a minimum of 15 years and then will be transferred to the National

                                                            10

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 13, 2012

                       Archives in five-year blocks, when the oldest case to be transferred is 20 years
                       old. The Conference approved the revisions and will transmit the schedule to
                       NARA for acceptance of the changes.


                       DIVISIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                At the request of the Eastern District of Missouri, and with the
                       approval of the Eighth Circuit Judicial Council, the Committee recommended
                       seeking legislation to transfer Ste. Genevieve and Iron Counties from that
                       district’s Eastern Division to its Southeastern Division. The Committee noted
                       that the geography, population, and caseload of the counties served by the new
                       courthouse for the Southeastern Division in Cape Giradeau, Missouri, support
                       the transfer of these counties. The Judicial Conference adopted the
                       Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                       reported that it devoted significant time at its December 2011 meeting to
                       examining whether and how various court units could share administrative
                       services to achieve cost savings, while preserving effective court operations.
                       In addition, the Committee discussed other cost-containment proposals,
                       including suggestions to reduce court library costs and a study of pro se
                       litigant access programs that increase court efficiency. The Committee also
                       considered whether to take additional steps to protect cooperation information
                       in criminal case documents, and whether to recommend issuing guidance to
                       courts to curb juror use of social media.


              COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                       LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENTS

                              As part of the judiciary’s cost-containment efforts, the Committee on
                       Criminal Law reviewed several statutory requirements that cause the courts to
                       spend money, but are obsolete, redundant, ineffective, or otherwise an
                       impediment to savings. Noting that the statutes in question could be amended
                       without any loss in the quality of services provided, the Committee made the
                       following recommendations.


                                                             11

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 13, 2012

                               Mandatory Electronic Monitoring Condition. Section 3142(c) of
                      title 18, United States Code, requires a court to impose electronic monitoring
                      as a condition of pretrial release if a defendant is charged with certain sex
                      offenses involving a minor victim. This condition is required even if the court
                      imposes a more restrictive condition, such as admission to a secure residential
                      treatment program. Noting that in such cases electronic monitoring is
                      redundant and an unnecessary expense, the Committee recommended that the
                      Conference seek an amendment to 18 U.S.C. § 3142(c) to allow a court to
                      waive the electronic monitoring condition if a more restrictive condition of
                      pretrial release is imposed. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
                      recommendation.

                              Pretrial Services Bail Reports. Section 3154(1) of title 18, United
                      States Code, requires a bail report on each person charged with a felony.
                      However, a bail report would have little or no bearing in cases where the
                      defendant has no chance of being released pending trial, e.g., he or she is
                      serving a sentence on another charge. On recommendation of the Committee,
                      the Judicial Conference agreed to seek legislation that would amend 18 U.S.C.
                      § 3154(1) to allow a court to waive the preparation of the bail report in all
                      cases where the report would have little or no bearing on the court’s release
                      decision.

                              Pretrial Services Annual Report. On recommendation of the
                      Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek an amendment to
                      18 U.S.C. § 3155 to eliminate the requirement that the chief pretrial services
                      officer (or chief probation officer of a consolidated office) submit an annual
                      report to the Director of the Administrative Office concerning the
                      administration and operation of pretrial services. The Committee noted that
                      such reports are obsolete in light of advances in information technology
                      systems that make data from the Probation/Pretrial Services Automated Case
                      Tracking System (PACTS) database available to the Administrative Office on
                      a nightly basis.

                               Sharing Services Among Districts. The Committee recommended that
                      the Conference seek an amendment to 18 U.S.C. § 3602 to allow a probation
                      officer appointed in one district to perform services for another district with
                      the consent of the appointing court. This would facilitate the sharing across
                      district lines of officer positions requiring special knowledge, such as sex-
                      offender specialists, cyber-crime specialists, and search team members. The
                      Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.




                                                            12

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 13, 2012

                               Presentence Notice to Victims. The Mandatory Victims Restitution
                       Act of 1996, Public Law No. 104-132, requires probation officers to provide
                       the victims of an offense with notice of the defendant’s conviction, the
                       sentence date, and the victim’s opportunity to submit an impact statement,
                       while the Crime Victims Rights Act, Public Law No. 108-405, places similar
                       requirements on officers and employees of the Department of Justice and
                       certain other executive branch agencies. To avoid duplication of effort and
                       provide victims with a single source of contact, the Committee recommended
                       that the Judicial Conference seek an amendment to 18 U.S.C. § 3664(d)(2) to
                       waive the requirement that a probation officer provide the above-described
                       notice if a representative of an executive branch agency has already provided
                       such notice. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       SPLIT SENTENCE IN PETTY OFFENSE CASES

                                The Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference seek an
                       amendment to 18 U.S.C. § 3561(a)(3) to clarify a judge’s authority to impose
                       a combined sentence of probation and imprisonment, also known as a split
                       sentence, for the same or multiple charges in petty offense cases. Section
                       3561(a)(3) provides that probation may be imposed “unless ... the defendant is
                       sentenced at the same time to a term of imprisonment for the same or a
                       different offense that is not a petty offense” (emphasis added). The italicized
                       language, added to the statute in 1994, has been interpreted by at least one
                       circuit to authorize split sentences in petty offense cases, but questions have
                       been raised about this authority, particularly by the Bureau of Prisons. The
                       Committee noted that split sentences provide judges with flexibility to impose
                       probationary time, which can reduce incarceration costs, promote
                       rehabilitation, and allow for better proportionality between crimes and their
                       punishments, in cases where the court feels that some custodial time is also
                       necessary. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       USE-OF-FORCE POLICY

                               The Judicial Conference has adopted a number of policies related to
                       probation and pretrial services officers’ safety, including guidance on the use
                       of force by officers in threatening situations, Guide to Judiciary Policy,
                       Vol. 8, Pt. H, Ch. 2, and guidance on officers’ use of oleoresin capsicum
                       (a pepper spray) as a method of self-defense (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 18; JCUS­
                       SEP 99, pp. 60-61). At this session, the Committee recommended that these
                       two policies be amended to apply to officer assistants, who face many of the

                                                              13

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 13, 2012

                      same safety risks as officers when performing official duties. The Committee
                      also recommended that use of restraints be added to the list of measures
                      officers and officer assistants may employ in response to a threatening
                      situation, noting that use of restraints could facilitate an officer’s safe retreat
                      consistent with the principle that an officer should always retreat rather than
                      use force when he or she can do so safely2. In conjunction with these changes,
                      the Committee recommended that the Director of the Administrative Office be
                      authorized to develop a national curriculum of safety and defensive tactics
                      training for probation and pretrial services officer assistants, which will
                      incorporate training on the proper use of oleoresin capsicum products and
                      restraints in the performance of official duties. The Conference approved the
                      Committee’s recommendations.


                      PRETRIAL DIVERSION

                              The Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference amend
                      Monograph 111, The Supervision of Federal Defendants, and Monograph 112,
                      Pretrial Services Investigation and Report, Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 8,
                      Pts. C and A, respectively, to include guidance to officers on pretrial
                      diversion, covering topics ranging from background investigations to
                      supervision as they apply to divertees. Much of this information was
                      previously available to officers, but had not been incorporated in the
                      monographs. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it discussed several
                      recent developments related to federal sentencing policy, including the
                      October 12, 2011 testimony of Judge Patti Saris, Chair of the U.S. Sentencing
                      Commission, before the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on
                      Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, and the Sentencing Commission’s
                      report to Congress: “Mandatory Minimums in the Federal Criminal Justice
                      System.” Several members of the Committee testified before the Sentencing
                      Commission at its public hearings on federal child pornography crimes and


             2
              The Search and Seizure Guidelines adopted by the Judicial Conference in September
             2010 already authorize the use of restraints by a probation officer during the
             execution of a search (JCUS-SEP 10, p. 17; Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 8, Pt. E,
             Ch. 4).

                                                              14

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 13, 2012

                       federal sentencing options after United States v. Booker. Relying on its
                       authority to approve technical, conforming, and noncontroversial amendments
                       to the monographs (JCUS-MAR 06, p. 15), the Committee amended the
                       Supervision of Federal Offenders, Monograph 109 (Guide to Judiciary Policy,
                       Vol. 8, Pt. E) to reflect changes to the procedures related to low-intensity
                       supervision.


              COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Defender Services reported that, under delegated
                       authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR 89, pp. 16-17), it
                       approved FY 2012 budgets and grants for federal defender organizations,
                       utilizing a new case-weighting methodology. The Committee approved,
                       subject to the availability of funds and necessary congressional approval, the
                       establishment of an independent federal public defender organization (FPDO)
                       for the Western District of Arkansas, which is currently served by an FPDO
                       for both the Eastern and Western Districts, and it declined a request from the
                       Ohio-Northern FPDO to convert an unstaffed branch office in Youngstown,
                       Ohio, to a staffed branch office. The Committee continued its ongoing
                       consideration of short- and long-range opportunities for containing Defender
                       Services program costs, and it received an update on a joint effort with the
                       Department of Justice to develop a protocol for more effective and efficient
                       management of electronic discovery in federal criminal cases.


              COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it received a
                       briefing from the State Department regarding ongoing discussions of
                       legislation to implement the Hague Convention on Choice of Court
                       Agreements. The Committee also discussed proposed legislation regarding
                       review of federal consent decrees involving state or local governments and a
                       proposal from the American Law Institute for legislation to govern recognition
                       and enforcement of foreign judgments in federal and state courts. Members
                       were briefed on the progress of a joint effort involving the Committee, Federal
                       Judicial Center, Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, Conference of Chief

                                                             15

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 13, 2012

                      Justices, and National Center for State Courts to develop resources that would
                      assist federal and state judges in coordinating litigation filed in multiple
                      jurisdictions.


             COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported on its efforts to
                      secure extension of the judiciary’s authority to redact personal and sensitive
                      information from financial disclosure reports, which resulted in enactment of a
                      six-year extension until December 31, 2017. The completion of Phase I of the
                      Financial Disclosure Online Reporting System (FiDO) enabled the Committee
                      to receive, store, and review reports electronically, and to send and receive
                      filer correspondence electronically, thereby significantly reducing judiciary
                      expenses related to the printing, mailing, processing, and records management
                      of financial disclosure reports. As of December 31, 2011, the Committee had
                      received 4,580 financial disclosure reports and certifications for calendar year
                      2010, including 1,395 reports and certifications from Supreme Court justices,
                      Article III judges, and judicial officers of special courts; 372 reports from
                      bankruptcy judges; 608 reports from magistrate judges; and 2,205 reports from
                      judicial employees.


              COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                      TELEPHONE SYSTEMS

                              On recommendation of the Committee on Information Technology, the
                      Judicial Conference agreed to adopt a policy that no national funds will be
                      provided to local court units to acquire new telephone systems other than the
                      national internet protocol (IP) telephone system unless the local court unit first
                      submits a detailed justification to its circuit judicial council as to why the
                      national system would be an inadequate solution for that court unit and
                      receives prior approval from the circuit judicial council. In recommending
                      this policy, the Committee noted that implementation of the national telephone
                      system has already led to a reduction in local telephone-related expenditures
                      and enhanced performance, reliability and redundancy. In addition, cost
                      savings and economies of scale that the judiciary realizes from the national
                      telephone system increase as the number of participating courts increases.

                                                             16

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 13, 2012



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Information Technology reported that it endorsed a
                       number of proposed initiatives that could result in operational efficiencies,
                       long-term cost savings, cost avoidances, and improved information technology
                       (IT) capabilities for the judiciary if sufficient initial capital investments are
                       made. These initiatives include establishment of a national videoconferencing
                       service, consolidation of the electronic circuits used by the judiciary’s
                       wide-area communications network and public access network, reduction in
                       the number of national data centers, centralization of the judiciary’s e-mail
                       servers, establishment of interface standards for the judiciary’s national
                       applications, and consolidation of the judiciary’s data warehouse systems.
                       The Committee also endorsed IT security policies to establish uniform
                       procedures for granting exceptions to security policies and for managing the
                       correction of known security vulnerabilities in operating systems, network
                       devices, and application software.


             COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 135
                       intercircuit assignments were undertaken by 102 Article III judges from July 1,
                       2011, to December 31, 2011, and 251 intercircuit assignments were processed
                       by the Committee and approved by the Chief Justice for calendar year 2011.
                       In addition, the Committee continued to disseminate information about
                       intercircuit assignments and aid courts requesting assistance by identifying
                       and obtaining judges willing to take assignments.


              COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                       involvement in rule of law and judicial reform programs throughout the world,
                       highlighting activities in Africa, East Asia and the Pacific, Europe and
                       Eurasia, Latin America and the Caribbean, and the Middle East. The
                       Committee received briefings about international rule of law activities

                                                              17

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 13, 2012

                      involving a number of executive branch agencies, the Library of Congress’s
                      Open World Program, the Federal Judicial Center, the National Center for
                      State Courts, the International Judges Association, federal public defenders,
                      and U.S. court administrators. The Committee also reported on briefings at
                      the Administrative Office for delegations of foreign jurists and judicial
                      personnel.


             COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
                      TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

                               On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
                      Judicial Conference agreed to amend section 260.10 of the Travel Regulations
                      for United States Justices and Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 19,
                      Ch. 2, to clarify the respective roles of the judge and the court certifying
                      officer in the processing of a judge’s claim for travel reimbursement. While a
                      judge may approve his or her own claim for reimbursement of travel expenses,
                      the court’s certifying officer must confirm that the judge’s travel was for
                      official business, that the mathematical calculations on the voucher are
                      correct, and that the judge’s claim for reimbursement is necessary and proper
                      to the travel involved, consistent with the travel regulations, and supported
                      with receipts and approvals as necessary.


                      RELOCATION ALLOWANCES FOR UNITED STATES

                      JUSTICES AND JUDGES


                              On recommendation of the Judicial Branch Committee, the Judicial
                      Conference agreed to amend the Relocation Allowances for United States
                      Justices and Judges, Guide, Vol. 19, Ch. 3, to bring them into conformity with
                      comprehensive amendments to the General Services Administration relocation
                      regulations (41 C.F.R. Ch. 302) that took effect in August 2011.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that, at its December
                      2011 meeting, it discussed initiatives by executive branch agencies to develop
                      programs to expedite the security screening of “trusted” travelers at airports
                      and the potential that federal judges could be incorporated into any such

                                                            18

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 13, 2012

                       programs. The Committee also reported that it developed, in cooperation with
                       the Administrative Office, a “toolbox” that can be used by district courts and
                       bankruptcy courts to enhance their external internet websites. In addition, in
                       coordination with the First Amendment Center (a non-profit media
                       organization that works to preserve First Amendment freedoms through
                       information and education), it conducted a program to facilitate the exchange
                       of ideas between judges and journalism school educators on issues affecting
                       coverage of the courts.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that on
                       December 1, 2011, it issued, and posted on www.uscourts.gov, a decision on a
                       petition for review of a circuit judicial council order on a complaint under the
                       Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-364 (“Act”). The
                       Committee distributed to circuit and national court chief judges its new Digest
                       of Practical Advice on the Administration of Proceedings Under the Judicial
                       Conduct and Disability Act and approved a core of chapters for a Digest of
                       Authorities on the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, consisting of topically
                       organized summaries of relevant sources of law and guidance. Also, the
                       Committee reviewed and discussed orders entered in 2011 by chief judges and
                       circuit judicial councils on complaints processed under the Act. The
                       Committee and its staff have continued to address courts’ inquiries and to
                       develop procedures and resources relating to the judicial misconduct and
                       disability complaint process.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                       PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO A CHIEF CIRCUIT JUDGE

                                Under current Judicial Conference policy, the principal secretary to a
                       chief circuit judge (or chief judge of the Court of International Trade) may be
                       promoted to Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) grade 12 after one year of service to a
                       circuit judge and a showing of exceptional circuit-wide duties. The chief
                       judge’s secretary can retain grade 12 permanently after two years in the
                       position, even after the judge steps down as chief (JCUS-SEP 98, p. 80;
                       JCUS-SEP 04, p. 24). Because the promotion was intended to compensate the

                                                             19

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 13, 2012

                      principal secretary for the additional workload associated with serving a chief
                      judge, and continuing to pay the increased salary after the secretary is no
                      longer exercising additional duties creates inequities among secretaries, the
                      Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference limit the award of the
                      JSP grade 12 to the period when the secretary is performing such additional
                      duties. After discussion, the Judicial Conference approved the Committee’s
                      recommendation, agreeing to modify its policy on promotion to JSP grade 12
                      of the principal secretary to a chief circuit judge (or chief judge of the Court of
                      International Trade) to state that the promotion is temporary and that the grade
                      of that secretary will revert to JSP grade 11 at the expiration of the judge’s
                      tenure as chief judge or when the secretary leaves that position. Any JSP
                      grade 12 secretary who has attained that grade as principal secretary to a chief
                      circuit judge or a chief judge of the Court of International Trade prior to the
                      date of this policy change (March 13, 2012) is not affected by the change.


                      HEALTH CARE PREMIUMS FOR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES

                               The judiciary currently makes the same contributions for Federal
                      Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) premiums for most part-time court and
                      federal public defender organization employees as it does for full-time
                      employees. However the executive branch and the Administrative Office
                      prorate payment for health benefit premiums to match the respective
                      employees’ tours of duty. In light of the current budgetary circumstances, the
                      Committee recommended that for court or federal public defender
                      organization employees on regularly scheduled bi-weekly tours of duty of less
                      than or equal to 64 hours, the judiciary’s contribution to the employee’s FEHB
                      premium be determined on a simple prorated basis, calculated as the
                      proportion of the employee’s standard tour of duty to that of a full-time,
                      80-hours-per-pay-period employee. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
                      recommendation, to be effective the first full pay period of January 2013.
                      Employees with a tour of duty of more than 64 hours per pay period will
                      continue to receive the same FEHB premium contributions from the judiciary
                      as full-time employees.


                      ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION

                             In March 1998, the Judicial Conference adopted two staffing factors for
                     cases referred to an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) program: a “basic”
                     staffing factor of 2.17 hours per ADR case, to be applied in most districts with
                     qualified programs and a “robust” staffing factor consisting of 4.38 hours per

                                                             20

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 13, 2012

                      ADR case plus a constant value of 1,397.23 hours, to be applied in a limited
                      number of courts meeting the criteria of a more extensive ADR program
                      (JCUS-MAR 98, pp. 20-21). In response to concerns raised about the
                      continued efficacy of these staffing factors, the Committee requested a work-
                      measurement study of alternative dispute resolution programs. Based on that
                      study, at this session, the Committee recommended, and the Conference
                      approved, a formula to allocate staff for alternative dispute resolution programs
                      in the district courts, starting in fiscal year 2013, based on 2.46 hours per ADR
                      case and a constant value of 394.09 hours, for all alternative dispute resolution
                      programs.


                      DEATH PENALTY LAW CLERKS

                              In March 1999, the Judicial Conference agreed to provide funding for a
                      death penalty law clerk program on a national basis in the district courts at the
                      rate of one law clerk for every 15 capital habeas corpus cases in a district, if
                      requested by the circuit judicial council (JCUS-MAR 99, p. 24). The
                      Committee reexamined this formula in 2000 and 2001, but declined to
                      recommend changes. In June 2010, the Committee asked the AO to conduct a
                      work measurement study to determine if the formula had become outdated.
                      Based on this study, the AO developed several formula options for the
                      Committee to consider that varied on, among other things, whether older cases
                      should be given the same credit as newer cases and whether stayed cases
                      should be counted. After considering the study and input from court personnel,
                      the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference approve a staffing
                      formula to allocate death penalty law clerks in the district courts, starting in
                      fiscal year 2013, based on a per pending case credit of 77.4 hours for cases that
                      are not stayed as of the end of a statistical year, regardless of age, and a
                      constant value of 691.2 hours provided to each district court meeting a
                      three-case minimum. After discussion, the Conference approved the
                      Committee’s recommendation.


                      EXECUTIVE GRADING PROCESS

                              In September 2011, the Conference agreed to approve a new grading
                      process for determining the target grades for district and bankruptcy clerks and
                      chief probation and pretrial services officers. The new executive grading
                      process consists of two steps: a) applying a formula that includes a constant
                      factor for core competencies that accounts for 70 percent of the formula and


                                                             21

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 13, 2012

                     weighted factors that account for 30 percent of the formula3; and b) assigning
                     target grades for these executive positions in JSP grades 16, 17, and 18, using
                     the 2011 distribution of JSP target grades. At this session, the Committee
                     reviewed and made the following recommendations with regard to two existing
                     policies that appeared to conflict with the new grading process.

                             District Court Clerks. In September 1992, the Judicial Conference
                     adopted a policy that allows for an increase in the grade of the district court
                     clerk in those instances where the grade of that clerk would otherwise be lower
                     than the grade of the bankruptcy clerk, the chief probation officer, or the chief
                     pretrial services officer in the same district, provided that (1) the chief judge
                     certifies that the court has assigned responsibilities to the district court clerk
                     equal to or greater than the responsibilities of other unit heads in the district
                     court; and (2) the district court clerk is responsible for performing certain
                     administrative support functions for other units of the district court (JCUS-SEP
                     92, pp. 72-73). Noting that the new executive grading process provides equal
                     credit for the core administrative responsibilities performed by court
                     executives, and that matching the target grade for the district clerk of court to a
                     higher grade of another executive in the district would require deviating from
                     the fiscal year 2011 target grade distribution, the Committee recommended that
                     the 1992 policy be rescinded. Following a discussion in which Conference
                     members emphasized the importance of preserving discretion to address local
                     circumstances, the Conference declined to rescind the 1992 policy.

                             Stabilization Factor. In March 2010, the Judicial Conference adopted a
                     policy to limit grade fluctuation resulting from application of the then-current
                     grading process. The policy imposed a grace period that was based on data
                     collected over a three-year period and was applicable only to reductions in
                     target grades; increases in target grades were effective immediately (JCUS­
                     MAR 10, pp. 18-19). In lieu of the March 2010 policy, the Committee
                     recommended a one-year stabilization period that would apply for both
                     increases and decreases in court unit executive target grades. As a result, the
                     target grade of an executive would change only if application of the executive
                     grading process results in a higher or lower grade for two consecutive years.
                     The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


             3
              For district and bankruptcy court clerks’ offices, the weighted factors include the
             number of authorized judgeships (15 percent), the number of authorized staff at 100
             percent of formula (10 percent), and total allotments (5 percent). For probation and
             pretrial services offices, the weighted factors include the number of authorized staff at
             100 percent of formula (15 percent) and total allotments (15 percent).

                                                             22

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 13, 2012



                      NON-FOREIGN POST DIFFERENTIAL PAYMENTS

                              Under 5 U.S.C. § 5941, executive branch employees stationed outside
                      the continental United States or in Alaska have been eligible for additional
                      compensation under two separate programs: the non-foreign area cost-of-living
                      allowance (COLA) program if their living costs are substantially higher than in
                      the District of Columbia and/or the non-foreign post differential program if
                      environmental conditions are determined to be undesirable in their locale. The
                      combined sum of the benefits from these two programs may not exceed 25
                      percent of basic salary. Although the statute does not apply to the judiciary, as
                      a matter of Judicial Conference policy and practice, judiciary employees in
                      qualifying areas receive the same allowances as those provided in the executive
                      branch, if they meet the eligibility requirements. Between 2000 and 2010, non-
                      foreign COLAs alone were set at 25 percent of basic salary, so post
                      differentials were suspended. However, in October 2009, Congress passed the
                      Non-Foreign Area Retirement Equity Assurance Act which phases out non-
                      foreign COLAs and phases in locality-based comparability pay. As a result, in
                      2010, COLAs dropped below 25 percent, allowing the post differentials to
                      reemerge. The Director of the Administrative Office approved resumption of
                      post differential payments with the proviso that Judicial Conference guidance
                      be sought as to whether the judiciary should continue these payments
                      prospectively. Noting the cost implications of post differentials, the
                      Committee recommended that the Conference discontinue non-foreign post
                      differential payments to current and prospective eligible court employees.
                      Federal public defender organization employees will be exempted from this
                      change to maintain compensation parity with the United States attorneys’
                      offices. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                      OFFICIAL COURT REPORTER RETENTION

                               Under a Judicial Conference policy adopted in March 1997, when a
                      district judge elects to change the method of recording proceedings from
                      official court reporter to electronic sound recording system (ESR), funding for
                      the court reporter position is discontinued one year from the date of the election
                      (JCUS-MAR 97, pp. 28-29). Noting that this one-year retention period is more
                      generous than the retention period for chambers staff in the event of a judge’s
                      unanticipated vacancy (which is 90 days with a possibility of a 120-day
                      extension), the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference modify
                      the 1997 policy to treat court reporters similarly to chambers staff. The
                      Judicial Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation, modifying the

                                                             23

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 13, 2012

                     March 1997 policy regarding over-strength court reporter positions to read as
                     follows:

                             In the event a judge changes the election of the method of
                             recording court proceedings from official court reporters to
                             electronic sound recording systems, funding for the court
                             reporter will be discontinued 90 days from the date of election
                             to electronic sound recording systems. One additional period of
                             up to 120 days beyond the original 90-day period will be
                             allowed upon certification by the chief judge of the affected
                             court to the circuit judicial council that additional staff resources
                             are necessary.


                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it will continue the
                     current Temporary Emergency Fund allocation formula, which provides
                     funding for judges to hire additional chambers staff to assist with temporary
                     work emergencies, and the permissible alternative use of the fund for tenant
                     alterations, without any additional limitations. The Committee advised the
                     Executive Committee that the judiciary should not seek legislative authority to
                     raise the mandatory separation age for law enforcement officers in the
                     judiciary. The Committee approved the schedule for delivery of staffing
                     formula updates using work measurement techniques to include best practices,
                     benchmarks, performance standards, incentives for efficiency, and a
                     presumption of shared services, and it asked the AO to prepare as an option for
                     the Committee’s consideration, the inclusion of alternative dispute resolution
                     as a discrete factor in the upcoming staffing formula update for district clerks’
                     offices.


             COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL SECURITY
                      COURT SECURITY COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP

                              Judicial Conference policy provides for each district to establish a
                      court security committee to address court security matters promptly and
                      systematically (JCUS-MAR 95, p. 31; Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 17,
                      § 240.20). The membership of these committees was clarified and expanded
                      and the mission statement defined in September 2007 (JCUS-SEP 07, p. 28).


                                                              24

Judicial Conference of the United States 	                                             March 13, 2012

                       At this session, the Committee on Judicial Security recommended changes to
                       the membership of court security committees to ensure a broad representation
                       of the court community and to give the chair of a court security committee
                       authority to adjust the membership as he or she deems appropriate. The
                       Judicial Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation, adopting the
                       following description of the membership of court security committees:

                               A court security committee shall consist of the members set
                               forth below. The chief judge (as chair) may designate a judge
                               to serve as his or her designee, and may adjust the membership
                               as deemed appropriate. The district U.S. marshal (as the
                               principal coordinator) and other members may, with the
                               concurrence of the chair, have a designee attend in their place.

                                        Membership:

                                        (1)	    chair: chief district judge;
                                        (2)	    principal coordinator: district U.S. marshal;
                                        (3)	    the chief bankruptcy judge;
                                        (4)	    a magistrate judge;
                                        (5)	    a court of appeals judge when there is a court of appeals
                                                or the chambers of a circuit judge within the district;
                                        (6)	    the United States attorney;
                                        (7)	    the federal public defender;
                                        (8)	    the district clerk of court;
                                        (9)	    the bankruptcy clerk of court;
                                        (10)	   the chief probation officer;
                                        (11)	   the chief pretrial services officer;
                                        (12)	   the circuit executive, if physically located within the
                                                district;
                                        (13)	   the bankruptcy administrator or U.S. trustee;
                                        (14)	   a representative of the General Services Administration,
                                                where appropriate; and
                                        (15)	   a government-employee representative of the Federal
                                                Protective Service.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Security reported that, in its continuing
                       discussion of cost-containment initiatives, it agreed to the Budget
                       Committee’s recommendation that the cap on annual increases in the Court

                                                               25

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                March 13, 2012

                      Security appropriation be reduced from its current level of 6.6 percent to
                      5.2 percent (see supra, “Budget Caps,” p. 8). In addition, the Committee was
                      updated on the manner in which the Capital Security Program will be
                      implemented. That program, which was appropriated $20 million by
                      Congress in FY 2012, is designed to assist courts at facilities that have
                      security deficiencies but may not qualify for a new courthouse building.


             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
             OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                      CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                              After consideration of the report of the Committee on the
                      Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of
                      the Director of the Administrative Office, the respective district courts, and
                      the judicial councils of the relevant circuits, the Judicial Conference made the
                      following changes regarding magistrate judge positions.

                      THIRD CIRCUIT

                      Middle District of Pennsylvania

                      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Williamsport
                      from Level 5 ($26,881 per annum) to Level 1 ($73,932 per annum).

                      TENTH CIRCUIT

                      District of Wyoming

                      Effective July 1, 2012:

                      1.	      Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Sheridan;

                      2. 	     Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                               Casper from Level 4 ($40,325 per annum) to Level 7 ($6,716 per
                               annum);

                      3. 	     Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                               Jackson from Level 5 ($26,881 per annum) to Level 6 ($13,439 per
                               annum); and


                                                              26

Judicial Conference of the United States 	                                            March 13, 2012

                       4.	     Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                               Green River from Level 6 ($13,439 per annum) to Level 7 ($6,716 per
                               annum).


                       AUTHORITY TO ACT ON CERTAIN POST-CONVICTION MOTIONS
                       IN MISDEMEANOR CASES

                               In order to enable district courts to manage their caseloads in a more
                       efficient and economical manner, the Committee recommended that the
                       Judicial Conference seek legislation amending 18 U.S.C. § 3401 to give
                       magistrate judges authority to act on all post-conviction motions in
                       misdemeanor cases where a magistrate judge has imposed a sentence. The
                       Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                       reported that, at its December 2011 meeting, it approved filling two magistrate
                       judge position vacancies. The Committee had an extensive discussion about
                       containing costs of the magistrate judge recall program and identified specific
                       proposals in several areas, including chambers staff for recalled magistrate
                       judges, clerk’s office staff funding related to recalled magistrate judges, and
                       Committee review of recall requests. The Committee will consider comments
                       on its proposals and complete its recommendations for consideration at the
                       Judicial Conference’s September 2012 session.


              COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
                       FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference a proposed technical and conforming amendment to
                       Criminal Rule 16 (Discovery and Inspection), together with a committee note
                       explaining the amendment’s purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference
                       approved the proposed amendment and agreed to transmit it to the Supreme
                       Court for consideration with a recommendation that it be adopted by the Court
                       and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.



                                                              27

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 13, 2012



                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                      approved for publication proposed amendments to Federal Rules of
                      Bankruptcy Procedure 7054 and 7008(b). The proposed amendments seek
                      to clarify the procedure for pursuing an award of attorney’s fees in adversary
                      proceedings and promote uniformity with the corresponding Civil Rule
                      54(d)(2). The proposed rule amendments are expected to be published for
                      public comment in August 2012.


              COMMITTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
                      U.S. COURTS DESIGN GUIDE

                              The Committee on Space and Facilities recommended that the Judicial
                      Conference amend the U.S. Courts Design Guide to eliminate raised access
                      flooring as a mandatory requirement for wire management in all areas of the
                      courthouse except the courtroom well where frequent changes to wire
                      management make it cost-effective. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
                      recommendation.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that it endorsed, with
                      the concurrence of the Committee on Judicial Security, the participation in the
                      Capital Security Program in fiscal year 2012 of courthouse facilities in the
                      following locations to address security deficiencies in those facilities: Hato
                      Rey, Puerto Rico; Benton, Illinois; Brunswick, Georgia; and Lexington,
                      Kentucky. The Committee also reported on two recommendations that were
                      forwarded to the Executive Committee for consideration on behalf of the
                      Conference on an expedited basis: approval of a lease-construct facility in
                      Eureka, California (see supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” pp. 6-7) and an
                      update to the Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan for FYs 2013-2017 that
                      removed a proposed courthouse annex in Greenbelt, Maryland from the Plan
                      (see supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” p. 6).




                                                            28

Judicial Conference of the United States                                           March 13, 2012



              FUNDING
                               All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                       funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                       the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                       establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                  Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                  Presiding




                                                            29

