REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


March 11, 2014


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on March 11, 2014, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                    First Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                Judge Paul J. Barbadoro,
                                       District of New Hampshire

                    Second Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Robert A. Katzmann
                                Chief Judge William M. Skretny,
                                       Western District of New York

                    Third Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                Chief Judge Joy Flowers Conti,
                                       Western District of Pennsylvania

                    Fourth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.

                                Chief Judge Deborah K. Chasanow,

                                       District of Maryland


                    Fifth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Carl E. Stewart
                                Chief Judge Louis Guirola, Jr.,
                                       Southern District of Mississippi
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           March 11, 2014

                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alice M. Batchelder
                                           Chief Judge Paul Lewis Maloney,
                                                  Western District of Michigan

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Diane P. Wood
                                           Chief Judge Rubén Castillo,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Rodney W. Sippel,
                                                  Eastern District of Missouri

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alex Kozinski
                                           Judge Robert S. Lasnik,
                                                  Western District of Washington

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe
                                           Judge Dee V. Benson,
                                                  District of Utah

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ed Carnes
                                           Judge W. Louis Sands,
                                                  Middle District of Georgia

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Merrick B. Garland
                                           Chief Judge Richard W. Roberts,
                                                  District of Columbia


                                                               2

Judicial Conference of the United States                                            March 11, 2014

                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Randall R. Rader

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Donald C. Pogue

                               The following Judicial Conference committee chairs also attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Julia Smith Gibbons, Thomas M.
                       Hardiman, John M. Rogers, Anthony J. Scirica, D. Brooks Smith, Jeffrey S.
                       Sutton, and Timothy M. Tymkovich; District Judges Nancy F. Atlas,
                       Catherine C. Blake, David G. Campbell, Sidney A. Fitzwater, Irene M.
                       Keeley, Royce C. Lamberth, Joseph H. McKinley, Jr., Lawrence L. Piersol,
                       Joel A. Pisano, Reena Raggi, Danny C. Reeves, Julie A. Robinson, and
                       Richard W. Story; and Bankruptcy Judge Eugene R. Wedoff. Attending as the
                       bankruptcy judge and magistrate judge observers, respectively, were
                       Bankruptcy Judge Brenda T. Rhoades and Magistrate Judge Alan J.
                       Baverman. David Tighe of the Tenth Circuit represented the circuit
                       executives.

                               Judge John D. Bates, Director of the Administrative Office of the
                       United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill C.
                       Sayenga, Deputy Director; Robert K. Loesche, General Counsel; Jeffrey A.
                       Hennemuth, Secretariat Officer, and Katherine H. Simon, Attorney Advisor,
                       Judicial Conference Secretariat; Cordia A. Strom, Legislative Affairs Officer;
                       and David A. Sellers, Public Affairs Officer. District Judge Jeremy D. Fogel,
                       Director, and John S. Cooke, Deputy Director, Federal Judicial Center, and
                       District Judge Patti B. Saris, Chairman, and Kenneth P. Cohen, Staff Director,
                       United States Sentencing Commission, were in attendance at the session of the
                       Conference, as was Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to the Chief Justice, and
                       Ethan V. Torrey, Supreme Court Legal Counsel.

                               Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., addressed the Conference on
                       matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice.
                       Senators Patrick J. Leahy, Jeff Sessions, and Christopher Coons and
                       Representative John S. Conyers, Jr., spoke on matters pending in Congress of
                       interest to the Conference.




                                                                3

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 11, 2014

             REPORTS
                              Judge Bates reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                      courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge Fogel
                      spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC) programs, and
                      Judge Saris reported on United States Sentencing Commission activities.
                      Judge Gibbons, Chair of the Committee on the Budget, presented a report on
                      budgetary matters, and Judge Smith, Chair of the Committee on Space and
                      Facilities, presented a report on space reduction efforts.


             ELECTION

                             The Judicial Conference elected Judge Kent A. Jordan, United States
                      Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, to membership on the Board of the
                      Federal Judicial Center for a term of four years, to succeed Judge Edward C.
                      Prado, United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.


             EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
                      FISCAL YEAR 2014 FINAL FINANCIAL PLANS

                              At its February 2014 meeting, the Executive Committee approved final
                      financial plans for fiscal year (FY) 2014 for the Salaries and Expenses (S&E),
                      Defender Services, Court Security, and Fees of Jurors and Commissioners
                      accounts, which reflect the enacted appropriations contained in the
                      Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014, Pub. L. No. 113-76. The
                      emergency sequestration measures previously approved by the Executive
                      Committee are no longer in effect, with two exceptions: law book allotments
                      remain at the FY 2013 funded level, and Second Chance Act allotments to
                      probation and pretrial services offices continue to be reduced to prioritize
                      funding for officer salaries and law enforcement allotments. In addition,
                      funding was sufficient to permit the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of
                      the Judicial Conference, to restore Criminal Justice Act panel attorney hourly
                      rates that were temporarily reduced in September 2013, and to provide a
                      one-percent cost-of-living adjustment to panel attorney rates, consistent with a
                      recent, similar adjustment to federal employee pay. The hourly panel attorney
                      rates were therefore increased to $126 for non-capital representations and
                      $180 for capital representations, both effective on March 1, 2014.


                                                             4

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 11, 2014



                       ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGES

                               The judiciary’s administrative policies, regulations, and similar
                       documents (including but not limited to materials in the Guide to Judiciary
                       Policy) frequently include specific references to organizational units and
                       employee positions in the Administrative Office. While some of these
                       references occur in documents that are not subject to Judicial Conference
                       approval, or are approved by the Conference only in concept, others bear
                       explicit Conference approval and would therefore require such approval to be
                       updated. To simplify the process of keeping organizational references current,
                       on recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to make technical and
                       conforming revisions, as necessary, to regulations, policy statements, or other
                       documents whose wording has been explicitly approved by the Judicial
                       Conference, to reflect any restructuring of the Administrative Office or
                       renaming of its organizational components.


                       FEDERAL DEFENDER ORGANIZATION
                       FUNDING ALTERNATIVES

                               The Executive Committee continued its examination of possible
                       alternatives for allocating funding to federal defender organizations (FDOs) in
                       FY 2015, pending completion of a work measurement study that is expected
                       to produce FDO staffing formulas for use in FY 2016 and beyond. In light of
                       the complexities of the matter and the fact that making any change in the
                       method for allocating funds to FDOs would benefit from the additional
                       information to be collected through an ongoing work measurement study, the
                       Committee decided not to propose any specific changes for FY 2015, but to
                       await completion of the work measurement study. The Committee endorsed
                       the Defender Services Committee’s undertaking to scrutinize carefully FDO
                       budgets to ensure appropriate allocation of scarce resources in FY 2015 and
                       encouraged the Defender Services Committee to work proactively with the
                       defender community to address concerns about resource and workload
                       disparities.




                                                              5

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                March 11, 2014



                      MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS


                               The Executive Committee —

                      •	       Agreed to act on behalf of the Judicial Conference to withdraw certain
                               proposals to amend Bankruptcy Rules 7008, 7012, 7016, 9027, and
                               9033 that had been approved by the Conference and transmitted to the
                               Supreme Court for consideration under the Rules Enabling Act, and to
                               recommit them to the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure
                               for consideration in light of the decision of the Supreme Court in
                               Executive Benefits Insurance Agency v. Arkison, 702 F.3d 553 (9th Cir.
                               2012), cert. granted, 133 S. Ct. 2880 (Mem.) (2013) (No. 12-1200).

                      •	       Adjusted the previously approved fiscal year 2014 interim financial
                               plans to account for additional funds provided to the judiciary in the
                               Continuing Appropriations Act, 2014, Pub. L. No. 113-46, which
                               funded the judiciary through January 15, 2014, at the fiscal year 2013
                               post-sequestration level, with the exception of two funding anomalies
                               (increases)—$26 million provided in the Defender Services account
                               and $25 million provided in the Salaries and Expenses account, with
                               authority to transfer the latter sum among the judiciary’s four main
                               accounts.

                      •	       Expressed agreement with actions taken by the Director of the
                               Administrative Office to implement judicial salary adjustments in
                               accordance with the decision in Beer v. United States, 696 F.3d. 1174
                               (Fed. Cir. 2012) (en banc), cert. denied, 133 S. Ct. 1997 (2013).

                      •	       Agreed that the AO Director should inform the Senate Judiciary
                               Committee that concerns had been raised within the judiciary about a
                               proposed amendment in the nature of a substitute to S. 1675, 113th
                               Congress, the “Recidivism Reduction and Public Safety Act of 2014,”
                               and suggested further review and consideration of the matter.

                      •	       Agreed to grant exceptions to the requirement that every Judicial
                               Conference committee meeting be held in a “hub” city for two
                               meetings for which specific locations had been previously identified,
                               but declined to consider granting either an exception requested for a
                               third meeting whose location had not been definitely identified or a
                               more general, open-ended exception for similar committee meetings in
                               the future.

                                                              6

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 11, 2014

                       COMMITTEE ON AUDITS AND

                       ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE ACCOUNTABILITY

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                       reported that it was briefed on a forthcoming audit of the judiciary’s
                       appropriations and discussed a pilot project in which volunteering
                       organizations will undergo risk-based audits rather than the standard audit that
                       has been used for several years in the cyclical court and federal public
                       defender organization audit program. The Committee also discussed
                       enhancements to internal controls and program reviews, and improvements in
                       the solicitation of audits of Chapter 13 trustee operations in the six bankruptcy
                       administrator districts.


              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
              OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                       CODE OF CONDUCT APPLICATION TO RETIRED

                       BANKRUPTCY JUDGES


                               At this session, the Judicial Conference amended the Code of Conduct
                       for United States Judges to provide that a retired bankruptcy judge (or
                       magistrate judge) who provides irrevocable notice to the Administrative
                       Office that he or she will not consent to recall service, no longer has to comply
                       with previously applicable provisions of the Code (see infra, “Code of
                       Conduct for United States Judges,” pp. 9-10). The Committee on the
                       Administration of the Bankruptcy System recommended that the Judicial
                       Conference adopt complementary amendments to the Conference regulations
                       governing the ad hoc and extended service recall of retired bankruptcy judges,
                       Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 3, Chs. 9 and 10, to incorporate this new
                       policy. The Conference agreed, amending the regulations to provide that any
                       bankruptcy judge who notifies the AO that he or she will not consent to recall
                       service is ineligible for recall under the regulations, and thus is not obligated
                       to comply with the provisions of the Code. See infra, pp. 22-23, “Code of
                       Conduct Application to Retired Magistrate Judges,” for similar amendments
                       to the magistrate judge recall regulations.




                                                               7

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 11, 2014



                      BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                               Recognizing that fiscal constraints may hinder Congress from fulfilling
                      all of the judiciary’s judgeship needs, in March 2013, the Executive
                      Committee asked the Bankruptcy Committee to recommend criteria to be used
                      in setting priorities among the bankruptcy judgeship requests within the
                      Judicial Conference’s recommendations to Congress. As a first step, the
                      Bankruptcy Committee focused on prioritization of recommendations for
                      conversion of temporary judgeships to permanent. It developed a
                      methodology for identifying which of the requests for conversion of a
                      temporary judgeship should be considered an emergency, so that when a
                      legislative opportunity arose, the Committee could provide the Director of the
                      Administrative Office with a prioritized list of temporary judgeships using the
                      most up-to-date data available. Based on that methodology, at its September
                      2013 session, the Judicial Conference authorized the Director, after consulting
                      with the Bankruptcy Committee, and subject to the approval of the Executive
                      Committee, to seek legislation to convert to permanent status any or all of the
                      temporary bankruptcy judgeships that are included in the 2013 Judicial
                      Conference bankruptcy judgeship recommendations, thus allowing the
                      Director to seek fewer than all the judgeships recommended, and to prioritize
                      based on current information provided by the Committee.

                               At this session, the Committee recommended that the methodology
                      developed for prioritizing conversion requests also be applied to requests for
                      new judgeships and that a single prioritized list of judgeships be provided to
                      the Director on request, unless the legislative environment suggests that only
                      conversion requests or only new judgeship requests could succeed, in which
                      case an appropriate list of the one type of judgeship request would be
                      prepared. Adopting the Committee’s recommendation, the Conference
                      authorized the Director, in consultation with the Bankruptcy Committee, and
                      subject to the approval of the Executive Committee, to seek legislation for any
                      or all of the additional judgeships that are included in the 2013 Judicial
                      Conference bankruptcy judgeship recommendations.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                      reported that it is continuing to review and provide oversight of bankruptcy
                      judgeship resources. In addition, the Committee concurred with the decision
                      of the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management to

                                                             8

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 11, 2014

                       recommend an increase in the administrative fee for bankruptcy cases and the
                       adversary filing fee, and it endorsed fee-related proposals regarding redaction
                       of private information from bankruptcy records. It also recommended
                       amendments to Item 11 of the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule
                       to clarify the bankruptcy court’s discretion to waive the reopening fee in
                       certain chapter 11 cases. The Committee endorsed, to the extent permitted by
                       existing law, prioritizing targeted and exception audits over random debtor
                       audits in the bankruptcy administrator districts.


              COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Budget reported that it focused much of its
                       attention on the judiciary’s fiscal year 2014 enacted appropriations and the
                       upcoming fiscal year 2015 budget cycle. The Committee noted that its
                       congressional outreach efforts over the last year were instrumental in
                       providing the judiciary with a fiscal year 2014 budget that was the best the
                       judiciary could have achieved given the overall fiscal climate. The Committee
                       also discussed the importance of cost containment and that both congressional
                       outreach and the cost-containment effort must be expanded to include chief
                       judges, other judges, and court unit executives.


              COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
                       CODE OF CONDUCT FOR UNITED STATES JUDGES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reviewed the compliance section
                       of the Code of Conduct for United States Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy,
                       Vol. 2A, Ch. 2, and concluded that the provision that requires retired
                       bankruptcy and magistrate judges who are eligible for recall to comply with
                       certain provisions of the Code (those governing part-time judges), even if they
                       do not intend or agree to be recalled, was too broad. After consulting with the
                       Committees on the Administration of the Bankruptcy and Magistrate Judges
                       Systems, the Committee recommended that the Conference amend that section
                       to provide that retired bankruptcy and magistrate judges who are otherwise
                       eligible for recall, but who notify the Administrative Office that they are
                       unwilling to consent to recall, are not obligated to comply with the provisions
                       of the Code governing part-time judges and that such notification may be

                                                              9

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 11, 2014

                      made at any time after retirement, and is irrevocable. The Conference adopted
                      the Committee’s recommendation. See also, “Code of Conduct Application to
                      Retired Bankruptcy Judges,” supra p. 7, and “Code of Conduct Application to
                      Retired Magistrate Judges,” infra, pp. 22-23.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                      to the Judicial Conference in September 2013, it received 41 new written
                      inquiries and issued 41 written advisory responses. During this period, the
                      average response time for requests was 17 days. In addition, the Committee
                      chair responded to 57 informal inquiries, individual Committee members
                      responded to 226 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel responded to 601
                      informal inquiries, for a total of 884 informal inquiries.


             COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
             AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                      LIBRARY COST CONTAINMENT

                              The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                      recommended that the Judicial Conference urge each circuit judicial council to
                      consider imposing a cap on chambers’ annual renewal costs for legal research
                      resources, taking into consideration circuit spending patterns, variances by
                      judge type, and proximity to other available collections, and to provide that
                      the caps be examined periodically. The Committee noted that five circuits
                      already impose spending caps and have found that they provide a useful tool
                      to control costs. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                      BANKRUPTCY COURT MISCELLANEOUS

                      FEE SCHEDULE


                             Adversary Filing Fee. Noting that bankruptcy adversary proceedings
                      follow many of the same rules of procedure and evidence as civil actions, the
                      Committee on Court Administration and Case Management, in consultation
                      with the Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System,
                      recommended that the adversary filing fee be increased by $57 to make it


                                                            10

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 11, 2014

                       equivalent to the current civil filing fee. The Conference agreed, raising the
                       adversary filing fee from $293 to $350, effective June 1, 2014.

                                Administrative Fee. The Judicial Conference has established an
                       administrative fee to be charged in all bankruptcy cases (JCUS-SEP 92, p. 64;
                       JCUS-SEP 97, pp. 56-57). That fee has twice been adjusted for inflation,
                       most recently in 2011, raising it from $39 to $46 (JCUS-SEP 11, pp. 14-15).
                       At this session, the Court Administration and Case Management Committee,
                       in consultation with the Bankruptcy Committee, recommended that two
                       different fee levels should apply to the various chapters of the Bankruptcy
                       Code to reflect the differing levels of work required for cases filed under those
                       chapters. The administrative fee for filing a petition under chapter 7, 12 or 13,
                       or for filing a motion to divide a joint case filed under those chapters, would
                       be $75. These petitions represent over 99 percent of all bankruptcy filings.
                       The fee for filing a petition under chapter 9, 11, or 15, or for filing a motion to
                       divide a joint case under chapter 11, would be $550. These petitions are
                       primarily filed by business establishments and municipalities, or involve
                       overseas debtors with substantial assets and liabilities. The Conference
                       adopted the Committee’s recommendation, effective June 1, 2014.


                       ELECTRONIC PUBLIC ACCESS

                                Since 1989, the Judicial Conference has authorized the electronic
                       transfer of certain data from bankruptcy court records to the Department of
                       Justice’s Executive Office for U.S. Trustees (EOUST) without application of
                       an electronic public access (EPA) fee, but with the understanding that the
                       EOUST could not sell or otherwise distribute the data to other entities without
                       permission from the judiciary (JCUS-MAR 89, p. 20). In 2008, the EOUST
                       received permission from the Judicial Conference to transfer some of the data
                       it received to trustees in bankruptcy cases (JCUS-SEP 08, p. 17). At this
                       session, the Conference considered a request from the EOUST for permission
                       to make publicly available on the internet data pertaining to amounts collected
                       and distributed by Chapter 7 trustees that it receives pursuant to these free
                       transfers. The EOUST seeks this authorization in order to comply with the
                       Obama Administration’s Open Government Initiative, which is intended to
                       increase the ability of the public to find, download, and use data sets generated
                       and held by the federal government. On recommendation of the Committee,
                       the Conference agreed to the EOUST’s request.




                                                               11

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 11, 2014



                      JUROR QUESTIONNAIRE

                              Question 4 on the juror qualification questionnaire addresses
                      prospective jurors’ English language proficiency, both speaking ability
                      (Question 4(a)), and ability to read, write, and understand English (Question
                      4(b)). In order to use the Jury Management System to identify efficiently
                      which juror qualification questionnaires should be reviewed by judges to
                      evaluate the extent of the juror’s English language abilities, the Committee
                      recommended, and the Conference agreed to adopt, an amendment to
                      Question 4 to add a third section as follows:

                               4(c) Did you provide remarks on the back of this form to
                               explain your answers to part “a” or part “b” of this question?


                      MODEL GRAND JURY CHARGE

                              On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed
                      to amend the judiciary’s Model Grand Jury Charge to clarify that grand jurors
                      should vote separately as to each defendant when charges are brought against
                      more than one person. This change was requested by the American Bar
                      Association. Paragraph 23 was amended to read as follows (new language in
                      bold, deleted language struck through):

                               Paragraph 23. Frequently, charges are made against more than
                               one person. It will be your duty to examine the evidence as it
                               relates to each person, and to make your finding as to each
                               person. In other words, where charges are made against more
                               than one person, you may indict all of the persons or only those
                               persons who you believe properly deserve indictment. You
                               must remember to consider the charges against each person
                               separately.


                      PRO SE LITIGANT ACCESS

                              The Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference amend its
                      attorney admission fund guidelines (Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 13,
                      Ch. 12) to clarify that courts may donate monies from their attorney admission
                      funds to organizations that provide representation to unrepresented litigants in
                      federal courts, supplementing the current guidelines that allow for

                                                              12

Judicial Conference of the United States 	                                             March 11, 2014

                       reimbursement of an individual attorney’s fees or costs associated with
                       representing pro se litigants. The Committee also recommended that the
                       Conference clarify that a court may order a pro bono attorney to repay the
                       attorney admission fund if he or she is awarded costs for fees and expenses in
                       the litigation. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations
                       and amended the guidelines as follows (additional language in bold):

                               § 1210.30 Courts’ Local Attorney Admission Funds
                                                              ***
                               Attorney admission funds must be segregated from all other
                               monies in the custody of the court, and must contain only
                               attorney admission fees, plus any interest income accrued on
                               such fees. Except as provided in § 1220(f)(1), [t]he court
                               must not place into its attorney admission fund monies from
                               other sources . . .

                               § 1220 Policies for Fund Expenditure
                               Attorney admission funds must be used only for purposes
                               which benefit the members of the bench and the bar in the
                               administration of justice. Examples of proper common uses of
                               attorney admission funds include, but are not limited to, the
                               following:
                                                             ***. 	 . .
                               (f)(1)	 Reimbursement of pro bono counsel for out-of-pocket
                                       expenses, payment of compensation to pro bono
                                       counsel, and payment of witness fees and other
                                       expenses for indigent pro se civil litigants. In the event
                                       of an award of attorney’s fees or costs to pro bono
                                       counsel in the course of such litigation, the court
                                       may order return to the fund of any payments made
                                       from the fund to counsel for fees and expenses in an
                                       amount equal to the award.

                               (f)(2)	 Donations to organizations that provide legal
                                       representation, advice, or assistance to
                                       unrepresented litigants in federal civil matters,
                                       including representation for settlement conferences
                                       or other alternative dispute resolution activities,
                                       provided that such organizations use the donation
                                       for no other purpose.




                                                              13

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 11, 2014



                      RECORDS DISPOSITION SCHEDULES

                              Bankruptcy Administrator Records. In September 2013, the Judicial
                      Conference approved amending Records Disposition Schedule 2 to add a new
                      schedule for bankruptcy administrator program records, and transmitted the
                      schedule to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) for
                      concurrence. During its review, NARA proposed deleting items pertaining to
                      individual cash receipts, disbursement ledgers, and documentation relating to
                      the financial administration of an estate because the information was
                      determined to be covered in other sections of the schedule. On
                      recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to delete
                      those items.

                              Human Resources Records. The Committee recommended that the
                      Judicial Conference amend two provisions of the records disposition
                      schedules for human resources records (C.4 and C.1 of Records Disposition
                      Schedules 1 and 2 respectively), to accommodate potential business needs
                      related to auditing and accountability. It also recommended amending another
                      provision to apply only to employee files and not also to applicant files. The
                      Conference approved the Committee’s recommendations. Because these
                      changes are consistent with NARA’s federal records guidance for such
                      records, NARA concurrence is not needed.

                              Technical and Conforming Amendments. On recommendation of the
                      Committee, the Conference approved non-substantive editorial changes to
                      Records Disposition Schedules 1 and 2 to clarify and standardize language,
                      and authorized the revised schedules to be transmitted to NARA for
                      concurrence. In order to streamline the process for making such changes in
                      the future, on recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to
                      delegate authority to the Administrative Office to make non-substantive,
                      technical, and conforming revisions to records disposition schedules. Also on
                      the Committee’s recommendation, the Conference delegated authority to the
                      AO to sever from proposed schedules Judicial Conference-approved items
                      with which NARA does not concur to allow the remaining
                      Conference-approved items to be implemented. This latter authority will
                      allow the AO to separately address NARA’s concerns without delaying
                      concurrence on non-disputed issues.




                                                           14

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 11, 2014



                       CM/ECF DATA FEED PILOT PROJECT

                               The Brady Handgun Violence Protection Act of 1993 requires federal
                       firearms licensees to conduct background checks on all prospective firearms
                       purchasers. Most checks are accomplished through the Federal Bureau of
                       Investigation’s National Instant Criminal Background Check System, but
                       others require further investigation. In those cases, district court clerks’
                       offices are often asked for information. To facilitate compliance with such
                       requests, on recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       approved a one-year pilot program whereby the District of Maine, in
                       conjunction with the Department of Justice, will use CM/ECF data to assist
                       the Federal Bureau of Investigation in implementing the Brady Handgun
                       Violence Protection Act. The Conference directed the District of Maine to
                       limit any transfer of CM/ECF data to only those data fields that are necessary
                       to identify persons prohibited from purchasing firearms and to monitor the
                       costs and benefits of the pilot, including any relevant statistical measures, and
                       provide periodic updates to the Administrative Office.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                       reported on its continuing efforts to help lead the development of new
                       architecture and requirements for the Next Generation of CM/ECF system and
                       to provide policy guidance on public access to case information. The
                       Committee agreed to develop proposed amendments to the Judicial
                       Conference’s privacy policy aimed at protecting cooperation information
                       contained in criminal case filings. In addition, the Committee agreed to
                       develop guidance for filing large-scale requests to redact improperly filed
                       bankruptcy documents containing personal identifiers and to update the Civil
                       Litigation Management Manual in light of pending civil rules amendments
                       and the results of the case processing study undertaken by the Committee and
                       the Federal Judicial Center.




                                                              15

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 11, 2014

             COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it discussed various
                      efforts underway in the executive and legislative branches that are designed to
                      eliminate overcrowding within the federal prison population, improve federal
                      reentry efforts, and conserve resources for the most important federal criminal
                      justice issues. The Committee reviewed several bills pending in the 113th
                      Congress that address these issues, including S. 619, the “Justice Safety Valve
                      Act of 2013”; S. 1410, the “Smarter Sentencing Act of 2013”; S. 1675, the
                      “Recidivism Reduction and Public Safety Act of 2013”; and S. 1783, the
                      “Federal Prison Reform Act of 2013.” Judge Robert Holmes Bell, immediate
                      past-chair of the Committee, submitted written testimony in connection with
                      the Senate Judiciary Committee’s September 18, 2013, hearing entitled
                      “Reevaluating the Effectiveness of Federal Mandatory Minimum Sentences,”
                      expressing the Conference’s longstanding opposition to mandatory minimums.
                      The Committee also discussed the Department of Justice’s “Smart on Crime”
                      initiative, which would, among other things, change how the Department
                      charges offenses carrying mandatory minimum penalties in certain cases, and
                      its procedures for compassionately releasing certain inmates.


             COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Defender Services reported that it has adopted, and
                      developed a plan to publicize, cost-containment initiatives related to
                      investigators, experts, and other service providers in federal defender and
                      Criminal Justice Act (CJA) panel attorney “mega cases.” The Committee also
                      reported that, under delegated authority from the Judicial Conference
                      (JCUS-MAR 89, pp. 16-17), it approved FY 2014 budgets and grants for
                      federal defender organizations. The Committee heard a presentation by the
                      AO’s Chief Technology Officer, who led a team that assessed two alternative
                      electronic CJA voucher processing systems, and offered its input on what
                      functions and capabilities it deemed essential for the selected system.




                                                            16

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 11, 2014

              COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it reviewed
                       immigration reform legislation introduced in the House of Representatives,
                       focusing its attention on the points where administrative decisions likely
                       would come to the federal courts for judicial review. The Committee was also
                       briefed on proposals that would create expedited procedures for certain
                       “small” copyright and patent infringement cases, as well as legislation that
                       seeks to address abuses in patent litigation. Finally, the Committee reviewed
                       the status of regulations to implement chapter 154 of title 28, United States
                       Code. Chapter 154 provides special procedures for federal habeas corpus
                       review of state capital cases if the Attorney General of the United States has
                       certified the state as having established a mechanism for providing competent
                       counsel in state post-conviction proceedings brought by indigent prisoners.


              COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported on the successful
                       implementation of new policies aimed at securing filer compliance with report
                       filing requirements and late fee assessments. In addition, in response to a
                       judge’s request, the Committee rescinded its previous advice requiring filers
                       to disclose assets subject to a power of attorney and directed staff to revise
                       relevant materials to clarify that assets subject to a power of attorney need not
                       be reported, whether or not a power of attorney has been exercised. The
                       Committee also reported that as of December 20, 2013, it had received 4,558
                       financial disclosure reports for calendar year 2012, including 1,297 reports
                       from Supreme Court justices, Article III judges, and judicial officers of special
                       courts; 354 reports from bankruptcy judges; 555 reports from magistrate
                       judges; and 1,908 reports from judiciary employees.




                                                              17

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 11, 2014

              COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Information Technology reported that it endorsed
                      proposed modifications to the information technology (IT) infrastructure
                      formula, which determines the annual allotments that courts receive for IT
                      equipment purchases. The Committee discussed ongoing and potential new
                      initiatives to improve the IT capabilities of the judiciary and realize significant
                      cost savings and avoidances, including strengthening the judiciary’s
                      communications network and implementing cloud computing. The
                      Committee discussed several other key matters, including the judiciary’s IT
                      security posture; the selection of a national system for processing Criminal
                      Justice Act vouchers; the implementation of Rest Assured, a court-developed
                      system that automates the criminal debt and restitution processes; and the
                      Administrative Office’s court exchange program, which is estimated to have
                      realized cost avoidances of approximately $500,000 in fiscal year 2013 by
                      using court staff rather than hiring contractors to support IT projects.


            COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 114
                      intercircuit assignments were undertaken by 85 Article III judges from July 1,
                      2013, to December 31, 2013. During this time, the Committee continued to
                      disseminate information about intercircuit assignments and aided courts
                      requesting assistance by identifying and obtaining judges willing to take
                      assignments.


             COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                      involvement in rule of law and judicial reform throughout the world.
                      Additionally, it received reports from the Department of State, the Department
                      of Justice, the Department of Commerce, the U.S. Agency for International
                      Development, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the legislative branch’s

                                                              18

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 11, 2014

                       Open World Program, the World Justice Forum and the World Justice Project,
                       the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the Federal Judicial Center,
                       and U.S. court administrators on their international rule of law activities. The
                       Committee was also informed of the briefings for delegations of foreign jurists
                       and judicial personnel provided at the Administrative Office.


              COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
                       JUDGES’ TRAVEL

                               On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
                       Judicial Conference approved the following amendments to sections
                       220.10.20 and 220.30.10 of the Travel Regulations for United States Justices
                       and Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 19, Ch. 2, to clarify the guidance
                       for judges regarding reimbursable travel to attend meetings of the Judicial
                       Conference or its committees (new language in bold, deleted language struck
                       through):

                                § 220.10.20 Authorized Judicial Meetings

                                A judge needs no advance authorization to travel to attend
                                authorized judicial meetings of:

                                •          the Judicial Conference,
                                •          a Judicial Conference committee,
                                •          a circuit judicial council,
                                •          a circuit council committee,
                                •          a circuit judicial conference,
                                •          a court of appeals or its committees,
                                •          a district court or its committees,
                                •          a bankruptcy appellate panel,
                                •          or a bankruptcy court or its committees,

                                if the judge is commissioned to that court or is a member of the
                                conference, council or committee conducting the meeting. or
                                the judge is the chair of a Judicial Conference committee or
                                the designated magistrate judge or bankruptcy judge
                                observer traveling to attend a meeting of the Judicial
                                Conference.



                                                                  19

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 11, 2014

                               § 220.30.10 Reimbursable Travel
                               [. . .]
                               (c) Appearance Before the Judicial Conference and its
                               Committees

                                       Except as provided in Section 220.10.20, a judge may
                                       be reimbursed for travel expenses to testify before
                                       participate in an authorized meeting of the Judicial
                                       Conference and its or a Conference committees only
                                       where he or she is invited to appear by the Chief Justice
                                       or appropriate the chair of such the committee
                                       conducting the meeting.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that, as part of its
                      congressional outreach program, it met with several members of the House
                      and Senate Judiciary Committees. It emphasized the importance of
                      communication between the two branches of government and encouraged
                      informal meetings and exchanges of knowledge between judges and members
                      of Congress. In addition, the Committee discussed civic education activities
                      in the courts and its interest in continuing to explore resources for civic
                      education.


             COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that it
                      issued two memoranda of decision regarding petitions for review of circuit
                      judicial council orders on complaints under the Judicial Conduct and
                      Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-364 (Act). The Committee discussed
                      complaint-related matters in which guidance had been sought and reviewed
                      orders entered by chief judges and circuit judicial councils in 2013 on
                      complaints under the Act. The Committee also discussed possible changes to
                      the Judicial Conference’s Rules for Judicial-Conduct and Judicial-Disability
                      Proceedings (2008).




                                                              20

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 11, 2014

              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                       COURT LAW CLERKS

                                In March 2011, the Judicial Conference authorized a three-year test
                       program to evaluate whether providing additional law clerks in courts with
                       extremely heavy caseloads would expedite case resolution (JCUS-MAR 11,
                       p. 23). The Conference established a new court law clerk position in the
                       Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) to serve as part of court rather than chambers staff
                       so that the occupants of the position could assist the entire court with its
                       workload. Two districts were selected to participate in the study based on
                       criteria established to determine need. At this session, on recommendation of
                       the Judicial Resources Committee, the Conference agreed to extend the test
                       program for three years and include more courts in order to gather additional
                       data. Specifically, the Conference authorized centralized funding for an
                       additional three-year test period for 1 court law clerk in the Western District of
                       New York, 10 court law clerks in the Eastern District of California, 3.5 court
                       law clerks in the Middle District of Florida, 2 court law clerks each in the
                       Northern District of Alabama and the Eastern District of New York, and 1
                       court law clerk each in the District of Delaware and the Middle District of
                       Tennessee (for a total of 20.5 court law clerks). As before, a court law clerk
                       appointment may not exceed JSP grade level 13, step 1 and is temporary, not
                       to exceed three years in duration.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it asked the AO
                       and the FJC to assess the size of the volunteer population in courts and federal
                       defender organizations and the functions that volunteer workers perform, and
                       asked the AO to submit a comprehensive set of policy recommendations
                       regarding their use for Committee consideration at its June 2014 meeting. The
                       Committee also requested that the AO develop a staffing formula for court
                       reporters for consideration at the Committee’s June 2016 meeting. In
                       response to a proposal by the Committee on the Budget to revise the salary
                       funding formula for probation and pretrial services offices, the Committee
                       declined to recommend that the Judicial Conference approve limiting JSP
                       funding to one chief probation officer or chief pretrial services officer and one
                       deputy chief probation officer or deputy chief pretrial services officer for
                       districts with separate probation and pretrial services offices.



                                                              21

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 11, 2014

             COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL SECURITY
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Security reported on the status of fiscal
                      year 2013 and 2014 appropriations for the court security account, and on the
                      fiscal year 2015 budget request. It also reported on its continuing discussions
                      on cost-containment and budget-reduction options, but expressed concern that
                      further cuts to the Court Security account could affect judicial safety and
                      security. The Committee approved changes to the process for selecting
                      projects for the Capital Security Program to require formal, written circuit
                      judicial council approval of potential projects at two critical stages in the
                      process and discussed measures to enhance the judiciary’s emergency
                      preparedness program.


             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
             OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                      CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                              After considering the report of the Committee on the Administration of
                      the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendation of the Administrative
                      Office, and with the concurrence of the affected district court and circuit
                      judicial council, the Judicial Conference agreed to discontinue the part-time
                      magistrate judge position at Wolf Point in the District of Montana.


                      CODE OF CONDUCT APPLICATION TO RETIRED

                      MAGISTRATE JUDGES


                             At this session (see supra, “Code of Conduct for United States
                      Judges,” pp. 9-10), the Judicial Conference amended the Code of Conduct for
                      United States Judges compliance section to provide that a retired magistrate
                      judge (or bankruptcy judge) who provides irrevocable notice to the
                      Administrative Office that he or she will not consent to recall service, no
                      longer has to comply with previously applicable provisions of the Code. On
                      recommendation of the Magistrate Judges Committee, the Judicial Conference
                      also adopted complementary amendments to its regulations governing the ad
                      hoc and extended service recall of retired magistrate judges, Guide to


                                                            22

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 11, 2014

                       Judiciary Policy, Vol. 3, Chs. 11 and 12, to incorporate this new policy. The
                       regulations will now provide that any magistrate judge who notifies the
                       Administrative Office that he or she will not consent to recall service is
                       ineligible for recall under the regulations, and thus is not obligated to comply
                       with the provisions of the Code. See supra, p. 7, “Code of Conduct
                       Application to Retired Bankruptcy Judges,” for similar amendments to the
                       bankruptcy judge recall regulations.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                       reported that after full consideration of district-wide survey reports prepared
                       by the Administrative Office, the Committee determined not to recommend
                       any changes in the number of authorized magistrate judge positions in six
                       district courts. Pursuant to Judicial Conference policy regarding the review of
                       magistrate judge position vacancies (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 26), for the period
                       between its June 2013 and December 2013 meetings, the Committee
                       approved, through its chair, the filling of 12 full-time magistrate judge
                       position vacancies in 11 district courts. At its December 2013 meeting, the
                       full Committee considered and approved one request to fill a full-time
                       magistrate judge position vacancy. The Committee also considered and
                       approved requests for the recall or extension of the recall of 14 retired
                       magistrate judges. In doing so, the Committee noted that several of the
                       requests provided for reduced staff as a result of the new recall regulations
                       approved by the Judicial Conference in September 2012 (JCUS-SEP 12,
                       p. 28).


              COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
                       FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rule 1007 (Lists,
                       Schedules, Statements, and Other Documents; Time Limits), together with a
                       Committee Note explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference
                       approved the amendments and authorized their transmittal to the Supreme
                       Court for consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted by the
                       Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.



                                                              23

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 11, 2014



                      FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

                              In September 2013, the Judicial Conference approved proposed
                      amendments to Criminal Rule 12 (Pleadings and Pretrial Motions) and
                      transmitted them to the Supreme Court for consideration with a
                      recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to
                      Congress in accordance with the law (JCUS-SEP 13, p. 31). In response to
                      queries from the Court regarding those amendments, the Committee on Rules
                      of Practice and Procedure recommended a modification to the language
                      approved in September 2013, as well as to the Committee Note. The
                      Conference approved the new proposed amendments to Criminal Rule 12,
                      which supersede the earlier transmittal, and agreed to transmit them to the
                      Supreme Court for consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted
                      by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                      approved for publication proposed amendments to two of the Federal Rules of
                      Civil Procedure. A proposed amendment to Civil Rule 6(d) would remove
                      service by electronic means under Rule 5(b)(2)(E) from the modes of service
                      that allow three added days to respond after being served. A proposed
                      amendment to Rule 82, which addresses venue for admiralty and maritime
                      claims, arises from legislation that added a new § 1390 to the venue statutes in
                      Title 28 and repealed former § 1392 (local actions). The reference to § 1392
                      must therefore be deleted. The proposed amendment adds a reference to the
                      new § 1390 in order to carry forward the purpose of integrating Rule 9(h) with
                      the venue statutes through Rule 82.
                              .

              COMMITTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that it discussed the
                      implementation of national space reduction policies endorsed by the Judicial
                      Conference in September 2013 and set deadlines for circuit judicial councils
                      to approve their baseline of space holdings and space and rent management
                      plans. Each circuit’s plan should set forth an overall strategy for achieving the


                                                             24

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 11, 2014

                       circuit’s space reduction target by the close of FY 2018. The Committee was
                       informed that incentives for space release adopted by the Conference in
                       September 2012 (JCUS-SEP 12, p. 32) had resulted in $1.7 million being
                       allotted to 31 courts in return for the release of 66,341 square feet of space as
                       of September 30, 2013, and that more space releases are pending in FY 2014.
                       Finally, the Committee met with the General Service Administration’s (GSA)
                       Public Buildings Service Commissioner, and conveyed to her the serious
                       budgetary impact a new GSA appraisal methodology would have on the
                       judiciary.


              FUNDING
                               All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                       funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                       the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                       establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                     Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                     Presiding




                                                              25

