REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


September 16, 2014


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on September 16, 2014, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                     First Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                 Judge Paul J. Barbadoro,
                                        District of New Hampshire

                     Second Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Robert A. Katzmann
                                 Chief Judge William M. Skretny,
                                        Western District of New York

                     Third Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                 Chief Judge Joy Flowers Conti,
                                        Western District of Pennsylvania

                     Fourth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.
                                 Chief Judge Deborah K. Chasanow,
                                        District of Maryland

                     Fifth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Carl E. Stewart
                                 Chief Judge Louis Guirola, Jr.,
                                        Southern District of Mississippi
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           September 16, 2014

                                Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ransey Guy Cole, Jr.
                                           Chief Judge Paul Lewis Maloney,
                                                  Western District of Michigan

                                Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Diane P. Wood
                                           Chief Judge Rubén Castillo,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                                Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Rodney W. Sippel,
                                                  Eastern District of Missouri

                                Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alex Kozinski
                                           Judge Robert S. Lasnik,
                                                  Western District of Washington

                                Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe
                                           Judge Dee V. Benson,
                                                  District of Utah

                                Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ed Carnes
                                           Judge W. Louis Sands,
                                                  Middle District of Georgia

                                District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Merrick B. Garland
                                           Chief Judge Richard W. Roberts,
                                                  District of Columbia


                                                                2
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 16, 2014

                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Sharon Prost

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Timothy C. Stanceu

                               The following current or incoming Judicial Conference committee
                       chairs also attended the Conference session: Circuit Judges Steven M.
                       Colloton, Julia Smith Gibbons, Thomas M. Hardiman, Diarmuid F.
                       O’Scannlain, Reena Raggi, Anthony J. Scirica, D. Brooks Smith, Jeffrey S.
                       Sutton, and Timothy M. Tymkovich; District Judges Nancy F. Atlas,
                       Catherine C. Blake, David G. Campbell, Gary A. Fenner, Sidney A. Fitzwater,
                       Irene M. Keeley, Royce C. Lamberth, Lawrence L. Piersol, Joel A. Pisano,
                       Danny C. Reeves, Julie A. Robinson, Rebecca Beach Smith, and Richard W.
                       Story; and Bankruptcy Judge Eugene R. Wedoff. Attending as the bankruptcy
                       judge and magistrate judge observers were Bankruptcy Judge Brenda T.
                       Rhoades and Magistrate Judge Alan J. Baverman. David Tighe of the Tenth
                       Circuit represented the circuit executives.

                               District Judge John D. Bates, Director of the Administrative Office of
                       the United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill
                       C. Sayenga, Deputy Director; Robert K. Loesche, General Counsel; Jeffrey A.
                       Hennemuth, Secretariat Officer, and Katherine H. Simon, Attorney Advisor,
                       Judicial Conference Secretariat; Cordia A. Strom, Legislative Affairs Officer;
                       and David A. Sellers, Public Affairs Officer. District Judge Jeremy D. Fogel,
                       Director, Federal Judicial Center, and Chief District Judge Patti B. Saris,
                       Chair, and Kenneth P. Cohen, Staff Director, United States Sentencing
                       Commission, were in attendance at the session of the Conference, as was
                       Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to the Chief Justice.

                              Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole addressed the Conference on
                       matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice.
                       Senators Patrick J. Leahy, Christopher Coons, Jeff Sessions, and Mike
                       Johanns and Representatives Bob Goodlatte, John S. Conyers, Jr., and Howard
                       Coble spoke on matters pending in Congress of interest to the Conference.




                                                                3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 16, 2014


              REPORTS
                               Judge Bates reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                       courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge Fogel
                       spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC) programs, and
                       Chief Judge Saris reported on United States Sentencing Commission
                       activities. Judge Gibbons, Chair of the Committee on the Budget, presented a
                       special report on budgetary matters.


              EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
                       RESOLUTION

                               The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
                       Committee to adopt the following resolution recognizing the substantial
                       contributions made by Judicial Conference committee chairs whose terms of
                       service end in 2014:

                                The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
                                appreciation, respect, and admiration the following judicial
                                officers:

                                               HONORABLE JOHN M. ROGERS
                                                Committee on Codes of Conduct

                                         HONORABLE JULIE A. ROBINSON
                                  Committee on Court Administration and Case Management

                                           HONORABLE JOSEPH H. McKINLEY, JR.
                                               Committee on Financial Disclosure

                                             HONORABLE EUGENE R. WEDOFF
                                             Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules

                                            HONORABLE SIDNEY A. FITZWATER
                                             Advisory Committee on Evidence Rules

                                Appointed as committee chairs by the Chief Justice of the
                                United States, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role
                                in the administration of the federal court system. These judges

                                                                4
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 16, 2014

                                served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference
                                committees while, at the same time, continuing to perform their
                                duties as judges in their own courts. They have set a standard
                                of skilled leadership and earned our deep respect and sincere
                                gratitude for their innumerable contributions. We acknowledge
                                with appreciation their commitment and dedicated service to
                                the Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.


                       FISCAL YEAR 2015 INTERIM FINANCIAL PLANS

                               Pending congressional action on the judciary’s appropriations for the
                       2015 fiscal year, the Executive Committee approved proposed fiscal year 2015
                       interim financial plans for the Salaries and Expenses (S&E), Defender
                       Services, Court Security, and Fees of Jurors and Commissioners accounts.
                       The interim plan for the S&E account assumes total available resources of
                       $5,557.9 million, $177.1 million below current requirements, but $165.6
                       million or 3.1 percent over the final FY 2014 financial plan. The plan for the
                       S&E account also incorporates a strategy for distributing allotments to court
                       units. On a national basis, courts will receive an increase of $76 million or 3.9
                       percent over FY 2014 decentralized funding, which should allow most court
                       units to maintain on-board staffing levels and hire staff as necessary to address
                       workload needs. The interim plans for the Defender Services, Court Security,
                       and Fees of Jurors accounts fully fund the requirements for those accounts.


                       MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                                The Executive Committee —

                       •        Approved a proposed approach to updating the Strategic Plan for the
                                Federal Judiciary.

                       •        Approved a request from the Committee on Judicial Conduct and
                                Disability to release for 60 days of public comment, under 28 U.S.C.
                                § 358(c), a draft of possible amendments to the Judicial Conference
                                Rules for Judicial-Conduct and Judicial-Disability Proceedings.




                                                              5
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 16, 2014


              COMMITTEE ON AUDITS AND
              ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE ACCOUNTABILITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                       reported that it was briefed on the progress of an ongoing audit of the
                       judiciary’s appropriations. In addition, it was briefed on cyclical audits of
                       courts, federal public defender offices, community defender organization
                       grantees, Chapter 7 and 13 bankruptcy trustees, registry investments,
                       retirement trust funds, the Public Access to Court Electronic Records
                       (PACER) program, and the Central Violations Bureau. The Committee also
                       discussed actions taken following a special audit, the schedule for a risk-based
                       audit pilot, and internal control developments.


              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
              OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                       CASE WEIGHTS FOR CHAPTER 11 MEGA CASES

                               In September 2010, the Judicial Conference adopted new case weights
                       to be used for assessing bankruptcy judgeship needs, based on a study
                       conducted by the FJC in 2008-2009 (JCUS-SEP 10, pp. 8-9). Concerned that
                       the weight given to Chapter 11 mega cases did not adequately reflect the
                       workload associated with such cases, the Committee asked the FJC to
                       examine whether an adjustment was warranted. Based on the FJC analysis,
                       the Committee recommended an amendment to the 2008-2009 case weights to
                       include an adjustment for Chapter 11 mega cases that takes into consideration
                       the higher level of activity in those cases as well as the number of jointly
                       administered cases comprising the mega case. The Judicial Conference
                       approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                       CONTINUING NEED FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                               In accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(3), the Judicial Conference
                       conducts a comprehensive review of all judicial districts every other year to
                       assess the continuing need for authorized bankruptcy judgeships. By
                       December 31 of each even-numbered year, the Conference reports to Congress

                                                              6
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 16, 2014

                       its findings and any recommendations for the elimination of an authorized
                       bankruptcy judgeship position that can be eliminated when a vacancy exists by
                       reason of resignation, retirement, removal, or death. On recommendation of
                       the Bankruptcy Committee, which relied on the results of the 2014 continuing
                       needs survey, the Conference agreed to take the following actions:

                       a.       Recommend to Congress that no bankruptcy judgeship be statutorily
                                eliminated; and

                       b.       Advise the Eighth Circuit Judicial Council with respect to the District
                                of South Dakota and the Northern District of Iowa, the Ninth Circuit
                                Judicial Council with respect to the District of Alaska, and the Tenth
                                Circuit Judicial Council with respect to the Western District of
                                Oklahoma to consider not filling vacancies that currently exist or may
                                occur by reason of resignation, retirement, removal, or death, until
                                there is a demonstrated need to do so.


                       BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIP PILOT PROJECT

                               No additional bankruptcy judgeships have been created since 2005 and
                       existing temporary judgeships in districts with high caseloads are due to
                       expire in 2017. To better align available judicial resources with need, the
                       Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, a pilot
                       project for implementation in fiscal year 2015 that would allow a long-
                       standing bankruptcy judgeship vacancy to be filled and the judge lent, through
                       the use of an intercircuit assignment and an agreement between volunteer
                       circuits, to a district that has an emergency need for an additional bankruptcy
                       judgeship.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                       reported that it is continuing to oversee several matters regarding bankruptcy
                       judgeship resources, including the continuing and additional need judgeship
                       survey processes, prioritization of judgeship recommendations and whether to
                       request temporary judgeships in 2015, and intracircuit and intercircuit
                       assignments. The Committee also recommended to the Budget Committee
                       funding for recalled bankruptcy judges, temporary law clerks, and the
                       bankruptcy administrator program for FY 2015. Additionally, the Committee
                       concurred with the Court Administration and Case Management Committee’s

                                                               7
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 16, 2014

                       recommendations to the Judicial Conference to increase the fee due upon
                       notice that a direct appeal has been authorized from a bankruptcy court to a
                       court of appeals and to adopt a national policy for redaction of private
                       information from bankruptcy records, along with a new fee for such
                       redactions.


              COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
                       FISCAL YEAR 2016 BUDGET REQUEST

                               After considering the FY 2016 budget requests of the program
                       committees, the Budget Committee recommended to the Judicial Conference a
                       request of $6,687 million in discretionary appropriations, which is 3.9 percent
                       above assumed discretionary appropriations for fiscal year 2015, but $4.2
                       million below the funding levels requested by the program committees. One
                       reduction was to the Defender Services Committee’s request to increase the
                       non-capital hourly Criminal Justice Act (CJA) panel attorney rate by $16
                       (above expected employment cost index (ECI) adjustments) to bring that rate
                       to the statutory maximum, estimated to be $144 per hour. Instead, the Budget
                       Committee included a request for a $6 increase above the expected ECI
                       adjustments. After discussion of this issue, the Conference approved the
                       budget request submitted by the Budget Committee, including the $6 increase
                       in the non-capital hourly CJA panel attorney rate, subject to amendments
                       necessary as a result of (a) new legislation, (b) actions of the Judicial
                       Conference, or (c) any other reason the Executive Committee considers
                       necessary and appropriate.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Budget reported that it recognizes that the
                       overall budget environment is not likely to improve significantly over the next
                       several years, so cost containment remains a necessity for the forseeable
                       future. The Committee requested that the Administrative Office, working
                       through its advisory structure, develop possible incentives to facilitate cost
                       containment for consideration by the appropriate Judicial Conference
                       committees and the Budget Committee during the upcoming December
                       2014/January 2015 committee meetings. The Committee also approved
                       updates to several non-salary funding formulas for use beginning with the
                       FY 2015 financial plan.


                                                              8
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 16, 2014

              COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in March 2014, the Committee received 26
                       new written inquiries and issued 24 written advisory responses. During this
                       period, the average response time for requests was 13 days. In addition, the
                       Committee chair responded to 37 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                       members responded to 174 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                       responded to 527 informal inquiries, for a total of 738 informal inquiries.


              COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
              AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                        REDACTION OF BANKRUPTCY RECORDS ALREADY FILED

                                Redaction Policy. The judiciary’s privacy policy relating to electronic
                        access to bankruptcy case files was originally adopted by the Conference in
                        September 2001 (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, pp. 48-50), and incorporated into
                        Federal Rule of Bankruptcy Procedure 9037 in 2007. It authorizes remote,
                        electronic access to bankruptcy case files as long as certain personal data
                        identifiers are partially redacted. Over the years since the policy was adopted,
                        bankruptcy courts have received a number of requests to amend filings
                        because of a creditor’s failure to properly redact personal identifiers as
                        required by Rule 9037. To provide guidance to courts on how to process these
                        requests, the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management, in
                        consultation with the Bankruptcy Committee, developed a policy to address
                        issues such as whether it is necessary to reopen a case in order to make the
                        necessary redactions, who should receive notice of such requests, and how
                        courts should handle large-scale redaction requests. On recommendation of
                        the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the proposed policy and
                        delegated to the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                        authority to make non-substantive, technical, or conforming amendments.

                               Miscellaneous Fees Related to Redaction. The Committee on Court
                        Administration and Case Management, in consultation with the Bankruptcy
                        Committee, recommended two amendments to the Bankruptcy Court
                        Miscellaneous Fee Schedule to address proceedings initiated to redact
                        bankruptcy case files. First, the Committee recommended, and the

                                                               9
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 16, 2014

                        Conference agreed to adopt, the following new fee to file a motion to redact a
                        record, effective December 1, 2014:

                                 (21) For filing a motion to redact a record, $25 per affected case. The
                                 court may waive this fee under appropriate circumstances.

                        This fee is intended to take into account the court workload related to motions
                        to redact, and to serve as an incentive for filers to use caution when filing
                        documents containing personal identifiers.

                                 The Committee was also concerned that fees for such motions not be
                        prohibitive. The redaction policy adopted by the Conference at this session
                        (see above) clarifies that a court typically should not reopen a closed case
                        solely to redact personal identifiers. However, to address instances in which
                        the court does decide to reopen for that purpose alone, the Committee
                        recommended that the reopening fee (which is equivalent to the original case
                        filing fee) not apply. The Conference agreed to add new exception language,
                        also to be effective on December 1, 2014, as follows:

                                 The reopening fee must not be charged in the following
                                 situations:
                                                                 [...]
                                 •       to redact a record already filed in a case, pursuant to
                                         Fed. R. Bankr. P. 9037, if redaction is the only reason
                                         for reopening.


                        ADDITIONAL MISCELLANEOUS FEES

                                Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule. An appeal to a court
                        of appeals in a bankruptcy case can proceed in one of two ways–either directly
                        from the bankruptcy court to the court of appeals or from the bankruptcy court
                        to the district court or a bankruptcy appellate panel, and then to the court of
                        appeals. The fee for a direct appeal is set in Item 14 of the Bankruptcy Court
                        Miscellaneous Fee Schedule and consists of two parts: $293 upon filing the
                        notice of appeal and an additional $157 upon notice from the court of appeals
                        that the appeal has been authorized, for a total of $450. The fee for an appeal
                        from a district court or bankruptcy appellate panel to the court of appeals is set
                        in Item 1 of the Court of Appeals Miscellaneous Fee Schedule; that fee was
                        increased in September 2013 from $450 to $500. In order to maintain parity
                        in the cost of the two methods for pursuing an appeal, the Committee
                        recommended, and the Conference approved, an increase from $157 to $207

                                                                10
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 16, 2014

                        in the fee due upon notice that the direct appeal or cross appeal has been
                        authorized, effective December 1, 2014, so that the fees for a direct appeal or
                        cross appeal also total $500.

                                Court of Appeals Miscellaneous Fee Schedule. On recommendation of
                        the Committee, the Judicial Conference amended the Court of Appeals
                        Miscellaneous Fee Schedule to clarify that the $500 docketing fee set forth in
                        Item 1 should be collected in addition to the statutory fee of $5 that is
                        collected under 28 U.S.C. § 1917. This change was made in response to
                        numerous inquiries from district court clerks about the relationship between
                        these two fees.


                        BANKRUPTCY NOTICING CENTER
                        APPROPRIATE USE POLICY

                                Under the United States Bankruptcy Code and the Federal Rules of
                        Bankruptcy Procedure, courts are required to provide notices to large numbers
                        of interested parties in bankruptcy cases. To reduce noticing costs and
                        streamline the noticing process, in 1993, the Administrative Office established
                        the Bankruptcy Noticing Center (BNC), which uses a private contractor to
                        provide centralized notice production and distribution services to bankruptcy
                        courts. To further reduce noticing costs, at this session, the Committee
                        recommended an Appropriate Use Policy to clarify the types of notices that
                        should not be sent through the BNC (e.g., notices the cost of which can be
                        placed on litigants instead of the taxpayers). The Conference approved the
                        policy and delegated to the Committee authority to make non-substantive,
                        technical, or conforming amendments.


                        EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT

                                As originally enacted, the Equal Access to Justice Act of 1980
                        (EAJA), Public Law No. 96-481, required the judiciary to file an annual report
                        with Congress on federal court and administrative awards of attorney fees
                        against the United States. While the legislation was still pending in Congress,
                        the Judicial Conference expressed opposition to such a requirement on the
                        ground that government agencies paying attorney fees, rather than the Director
                        of the Administrative Office, should be required to report those payments
                        (JCUS-SEP 79, pp. 65-66). However, the judiciary was unsuccessful in
                        having the requirement removed before the statute was enacted. The judiciary
                        then sought a legislative amendment to transfer this reporting requirement to

                                                              11
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 16, 2014

                        the Department of Justice (DOJ) and other litigating agencies (JCUS-MAR
                        92, p. 14). In 1992, Congress did transfer the responsibility to the DOJ, and
                        then in 1995 eliminated the requirement altogether. Legislation currently
                        pending in Congress, the Open Book on Equal Access to Justice Act, H.R.
                        2919, 113th Congress, would reimpose on the judiciary reporting
                        requirements similar to those initially contained in EAJA. Noting that the
                        judiciary’s case management system does not collect the information sought,
                        and that imposing such a requirement would unduly burden the courts, the
                        Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference reaffirm its position
                        that any required reporting to Congress (or to any other entity) of attorney fees
                        paid pursuant to the Equal Access to Justice Act (as would be required in H.R.
                        2919) be made by the government agencies paying such attorney fees, rather
                        than by the Director of the Administrative Office, as those agencies are best
                        positioned to report the information. The Conference approved the
                        Committee’s recommendation.

                                The proposed legislation would also require the judiciary to provide
                        information for public dissemination that is subject to a court sealing order,
                        possibly resulting in expensive satellite litigation to oppose the exposure of
                        sealed information or opening the door for the unsealing of other types of
                        confidential data. The Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference
                        oppose any legislation that would have the effect of requiring the federal
                        courts to unseal, or otherwise make public, information that is meant to be
                        confidential under a federal court order. The Conference approved the
                        Committee’s recommendation.


                        JURY FORM AO 12

                                 The Jury Selection and Service Act (Public Law No. 90-274) requires
                        district courts to create a plan for the random selection of jurors representing a
                        fair cross section of the community within their district or divisions. The
                        Judicial Conference created Form AO 12, the “Report on Operation of the
                        Jury Selection Plan,” to help district courts to comply with the Jury Act
                        requirements. A Ninth Circuit opinion states that the most accurate way to
                        calculate the percentage of each demographic group in the jury wheel is to
                        exclude from the calculation those juror responses in which the relevant (e.g.,
                        racial or ethnic) background is not indicated. See, United States v. Rodriguez-
                        Lara, 421 F.3d 932, 944 n. 11 (9th Cir. 2005). The Committee recommended
                        that Form AO 12 be amended to assist the Ninth Circuit district courts in
                        complying with this instruction, as well as to allow district courts in other
                        circuits to choose which method to use in reporting juror pool


                                                               12
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 September 16, 2014

                        representativeness. The Committee also recommended several technical or
                        conforming amendments to the instructions on the form. The Conference
                        adopted the Committee’s recommendations, amending Form AO 12 to—

                        a.       Add a separate column that allows district courts to compare census
                                 demographics with their jury wheel race, gender, and ethnicity
                                 demographics after respondents with unknown demographics are
                                 removed; and

                        b.       Amend the instructions on the last two pages of the form as follows
                                 (new language underlined; deletions struck through):

                                 (1)       General. The information to be collected on the AO 12 form
                                           is for the use of the district courts to aid them in
                                           (1) determining whether their jury wheels comply with the
                                           randomness and nondiscrimination provisions of the Jury
                                           Selection and Service Act, and (2) comparing statistical
                                           samplings of jury wheels against general citizen population
                                           data.

                                 (2)       Part II
                                                           [...]
                                           To compute the percentage figures, divide each
                                           race/ethnicity/sex distribution figure in subpart (9) by
                                           the total number of forms in the sample. Courts using
                                           the judiciary’s automated juror management system
                                           should use the system’s JS-12 reporting function to
                                           provide the race/ethnicity/sex distribution for all
                                           completed qualification forms called for in subpart (9).

                                 (3)       Part III
                                                           [...]
                                           If the number of the names in the qualified wheel is larger than
                                           the “minimum sample size” and you choose to draw a sample
                                           of less than the full wheel, the sample should be drawn using
                                           the same procedure as you would use to draw that many names
                                           for assignment to jury panels (as directed by 28 U.S.C.
                                           §1866(A)). Courts using the judiciary’s automated jury
                                           management system should use the system’s JS-12 reporting
                                           function to provide the race/ethnicity/sex distribution for all
                                           qualified jurors called for in subpart (3).



                                                                  13
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 16, 2014

                                 (4)       Part IV
                                                           [...]
                                           To assist you with these comparisons, the Administrative
                                           Office will provide specially programmed Census Bureau
                                           information that shows racial, ethnic, and sex data and
                                           percentages for the citizen population by county for every
                                           federal jury division of your district. You may also provide a
                                           demographic breakdown of jury wheel data of respondents with
                                           unknown demographic data removed in order to provide a
                                           more accurate comparison of the known demographic
                                           breakdown of jury wheel data with citizen population data.


                        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                 The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                        reported that it is developing, in collaboration with the Defender Services and
                        Criminal Law Committees, a set of recommendations for review by the
                        Judicial Conference aimed at protecting cooperation information in criminal
                        case filings. As a preliminary step, the Committee agreed to notify the courts
                        of the dangers of including the names of cooperators in orders and opinions.
                        Along with the Committees on the Judicial Branch and Codes of Conduct, this
                        Committee also approved guidelines for federal courts’ official use of social
                        media. In addition, it discussed the status of the Next Generation of CM/ECF
                        and reiterated its view that, because the new system will greatly assist judges
                        in managing their cases and caseloads, as well as promote public access,
                        development of the system should continue to be a funding priority.


              COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                       SENTENCING REFORM LEGISLATION

                               Several bills pending in the 113th Congress address sentencing reform;
                       some would affect the imposition of sentences at the time of sentencing and
                       others would create mechanisms for early release after a period of confinement.
                       The proposed Recidivism Reduction and Public Safety Act of 2013, S. 1675,
                       113th Congress (as amended and passed by the Senate Committee on the
                       Judiciary, March 6, 2014), falls into the latter category. It would authorize
                       judges to allow inmates, in certain circumstances, to serve a portion of their
                       sentence on home confinement or community supervision. The inmates would
                       remain in Bureau of Prisons custody, but would be under the supervision of

                                                                 14
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 16, 2014

                       probation and pretrial services officers. The Criminal Law Committee noted
                       that such decisions are in the nature of parole and more appropriately made by
                       the executive branch, which has direct contact with the inmates and the most
                       accurate and up-to-date information about their conduct and condition. The
                       Committee also expressed concern that the legislation could erode determinate
                       sentencing and otherwise undermine the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984. It
                       therefore recommended that the Judicial Conference oppose those portions of
                       S. 1675, 113th Congress (as amended and passed by the Senate Committee on
                       the Judiciary, March 6, 2014), or similar legislation that would require Article
                       III judges to exercise powers that traditionally have been exercised by parole
                       officials in the executive branch in deciding whether an inmate may be allowed
                       to serve a portion of his or her prison sentence in the community. The
                       Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it discussed whether to
                       support the retroactive application of the U.S. Sentencing Commission’s
                       proposed amendment to the drug quantity table in the Sentencing Guidelines
                       Manual. After significant and careful evaluation, the Committee voted to
                       support making the proposed amendment retroactive, but only if (1) the courts
                       are authorized to begin accepting and granting petitions on November 1, 2014,
                       (2) any inmate who is granted a sentence reduction will not be eligible for
                       release until at least May 1, 2015, and (3) the Commission helps coordinate a
                       national training program that facilitates the development of procedures that
                       conserve scarce resources and promote public safety. The recommendation to
                       delay inmates’ releases was designed to facilitate the effective reentry of the
                       thousands of inmates who could be released early. The Sentencing
                       Commission voted to make the amendment retroactive, effective on November
                       1, 2014, and delay the release of any inmate whose sentence is reduced as a
                       result of the amendment until November 1, 2015.


              COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Defender Services reported that it met with Deputy
                       Attorney General James Cole to discuss Department of Justice policies
                       and practices that have a significant impact on Defender Services program
                       costs (e.g., discovery issues, the Death Penalty Authorization Protocol,

                                                             15
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 16, 2014

                       sentencing reform, new charging policies, and efforts to make electronic
                       discovery accessible to pre-trial detainees). The Committee recommended to
                       the Budget Committee that the judiciary’s budget request to Congress include a
                       raise in the non-capital hourly panel attorney rate to the statutory maximum,
                       estimated to be $144 per hour, effective on January 1, 2016, to ensure the
                       availability of qualified counsel to provide effective representation of CJA
                       defendants. But see “Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Request, supra, p. 8.” During
                       its discussion of Defender Services program long-range planning, the
                       Committee determined that a comprehensive, impartial review of the CJA
                       program should be performed, consistent with Judicial Conference policy. See
                       JCUS-MAR 93, p. 28.


              COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it continued
                       its review of immigration reform legislation introduced in the House of
                       Representatives, focusing its attention on the points where administrative
                       decisions likely would come to the federal courts for judicial review, as well as
                       provisions that would limit or preclude judicial review. The Committee also
                       discussed House-passed legislation that would make substantial changes to the
                       Administrative Procedure Act, including provisions that would affect judicial
                       review of the administrative rulemaking process. In addition, the Committee
                       considered proposed legislation that would authorize one or both chambers of
                       Congress to initiate a civil action against the President (or other executive
                       branch officials) for an alleged failure to faithfully execute federal laws in
                       violation of the “Take Care” clause of the Constitution.


              COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that an upgrade was
                       approved for the current versions of the financial disclosure report preparation
                       software and filing systems. Even after this upgrade, these systems have
                       limitations; thus, the Committee authorized a comprehensive assessment of
                       future needs and alternatives that would explore a wide range of options. The
                       Committee also approved two initiatives designed to clarify and simplify its


                                                              16
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 16, 2014

                       guidance and provide better assistance to filers preparing their financial
                       disclosure reports and to the Committee and its staff in reviewing and
                       processing reports. As of June 20, 2014, the Committee had received 3,742
                       financial disclosure reports and certifications for calendar year 2013 (out of a
                       total of 4,313 required to be filed), which included nomination, initial, annual
                       and final report filings. For annual reports filed for calendar year 2013, the
                       Committee had received 1,122 reports from Supreme Court justices and Article
                       III judges; 306 reports from bankruptcy judges; 478 reports from magistrate
                       judges; and 1,618 reports from judicial employees.


               COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                       LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

                               Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612 and on recommendation of the Committee
                       on Information Technology, the Judicial Conference approved the fiscal year
                       2015 update to the Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the
                       Federal Judiciary. Funds for the judiciary’s information technology program
                       will be spent in accordance with this plan.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Information Technology reported that it
                       recommended that additional funding be sought in FY 2016 and beyond to
                       meet current court demand for expanded national centralized hosting services
                       while additional study is undertaken on alternatives. It also endorsed
                       expansion of two security policies to include publicly accessible electronic case
                       management (ECF) servers: the first ensures use of host-based intrusion
                       prevention systems software, and the second ensures privileged scans for
                       vulnerabilities. While declining to authorize fingerprint authentication for
                       virtual private network-on-demand access to the judiciary’s data
                       communication network, the Committee approved such authentication for
                       nationally supported Lotus Notes email, calendaring, and contacts applications
                       at the court unit’s/federal defender organization’s discretion.




                                                              17
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 16, 2014

             COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 94 intercircuit
                       assignments were undertaken by 73 Article III judges from January 1, 2014, to
                       June 30, 2014. The Committee also reviewed and concurred with two
                       proposed intercircuit assignments of magistrate judges and two proposed
                       intercircuit assignments of bankruptcy judges. During this time, the Committee
                       continued to disseminate to chief district judges information about intercircuit
                       assignments and aid courts requesting assistance by identifying and obtaining
                       judges willing to take assignments.


              COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                       involvement in rule of law and judicial reform activities throughout the world,
                       highlighting efforts in Africa, Europe and Eurasia, Latin America and the
                       Caribbean, the Middle East, and South and Central Asia. The Committee
                       received reports on the rule of law activities from the Department of Justice,
                       United States Agency for International Development, United States Patent and
                       Trademark Office, United States Institute of Peace, Open World Program,
                       Federal Judicial Center, Administrative Office, International Association of
                       Court Administrators, and World Justice Project. The Committee also reported
                       on briefings at the Administrative Office for foreign delegations of jurists and
                       judicial personnel.


              COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
                       MEETING AND CONFERENCE PLANNING LEGISLATION

                               The proposed Government Spending Accountability Act of 2013,
                       H.R. 313, 113th Congress, and a companion bill in the Senate, S. 1347, contain
                       a variety of substantive and financial disclosure provisions intended to
                       establish transparency and financial accountability regarding government
                       conferences. The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that some of
                       these provisions create concerns for the judiciary, including substantive

                                                             18
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 16, 2014

                       disclosure provisions that would require certain written conference materials to
                       be made available to the public that may reflect sensitive or confidential,
                       predecisional information and financial disclosure requirements that are unduly
                       burdensome. The Committee also noted potential security concerns that arise if
                       the judiciary does not have discretion to determine whether certain information
                       should be made public. For these reasons, the Committee asked the Judicial
                       Conference to recommend to Congress that the judiciary be exempted from
                       coverage in H.R. 313 and S. 1347, and any similar legislation, with the
                       understanding that the Conference would direct the Administrative Office
                       Director to exercise existing statutory and other authority to promulgate
                       regulations that would meet the general goals of such legislation, if enacted.
                       This would allow the judiciary to provide greater transparency about its
                       operations and self-governance, while recognizing its different governance
                       practices and constitutional role. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
                       recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it began a new
                       initiative, the Judicial-Congressional Dialogue, with the goal of increasing
                       understanding between the legislative and judicial branches. The first event
                       was held in May 2014 with a panel featuring Supreme Court Associate Justices
                       Stephen Breyer and Samuel Alito, as well as House Judiciary Committee
                       Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Ranking Member John Conyers (D-MI).
                       Ten members of the House Judiciary Committee and all members of the
                       Judicial Branch Committee attended. The Committee also established a new
                       civic engagement subcommittee that worked with the FJC to survey courts
                       about the types of civic education projects courts engage in at the institutional
                       and individual level. The results of the survey will be used to enhance the JNet
                       Educational Outreach Resource page with links to information and materials
                       developed by courts and will assist courts in sharing ideas, knowledge, and
                       materials about civic education programs.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that it
                       discussed complaint-related matters in which the guidance of its chair and staff
                       had been sought. It also discussed a revised draft of possible changes to the

                                                              19
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 September 16, 2014

                       Judicial Conference’s Rules for Judicial-Conduct and Judicial-Disability
                       Proceedings (2008).


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                       ADDITIONAL ARTICLE III JUDGESHIPS

                               Recognizing that Congress has not passed comprehensive Article III
                       judgeship legislation since 1990, and that courts require an appropriate number
                       of Article III judges to handle their workloads, in March 2011, the Judicial
                       Conference authorized the Director of the Administrative Office, subject to the
                       approval of the Executive Committee, to pursue separate legislation for
                       Conference-approved additional judgeships for district courts that have 700 or
                       more weighted filings per authorized judgeship, averaged over a three-year
                       period, and that are utilizing all available judicial resources (JCUS-MAR 11,
                       p. 22). At this session, in order to give the Director greater flexibility in
                       pursuing judgeships, the Committee on Judicial Resources recommended that
                       the Conference further prioritize judgeship requests based on additional 100-
                       point increments in weighted filings per judgeship. The Conference agreed and
                       amended its March 2011 position on prioritization of recommendations for
                       additional judgeships for district courts to read as follows (deletions struck
                       through, new language underlined) –

                                [T]he Director [of the Administrative Office], subject to the
                                approval of the Executive Committee, may (a) pursue separate
                                legislation for Conference-approved additional judgeships for
                                district courts that have 700 or more weighted filings per
                                authorized judgeship, averaged over a three-year period, and
                                that are utilizing all available judicial resources and procedures;
                                and (b) depending on the amount of available funding for new
                                judgeships, pursue separate legislation for any or all
                                Conference-approved judgeships for district courts that have
                                either 500 or more or 600 or more weighted filings per
                                authorized judgeship, averaged over a three-year period, and
                                that are using all available judicial resources and procedures;
                                and (c) provide to Congress a list of the district courts
                                recommended by the Conference for additional judgeships, in
                                order of weighted filings per judgeship.




                                                                20
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   September 16, 2014


                       STAFFING FORMULAS

                               Court of Appeals and Circuit Offices. In accordance with its schedule
                       for updating staffing formulas every five years, the Committee on Judicial
                       Resources considered updates to the formulas for all court of appeals and
                       circuit offices, including the offices of court of appeals clerks, staff attorneys,
                       circuit executives, circuit mediators, circuit librarians, and bankruptcy appellate
                       panel clerks. After extensive data collection and input from the courts, the
                       Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved—

                       a.       New staffing formulas for court of appeals and circuit offices to be
                                applied starting in fiscal year 2015, which provide a total of 1,955.6
                                full-time equivalents (FTEs), based on statistical year 2013 workload;

                       b.       The use of three-year averages for case filings when implementing the
                                new staffing formulas for the offices of bankruptcy appellate panel
                                clerks, courts of appeals clerks, and staff attorneys; and single-year
                                totals for the offices of circuit executives, circuit librarians, and circuit
                                mediators; and

                       c.       The use of additional staffing formula factors for:

                                (1)        13.3 additional FTE staff attorney positions in the Eleventh
                                           Circuit’s Office of Staff Attorneys;

                                (2)        3.5 additional FTEs in the Third Circuit’s Office of the Circuit
                                           Executive for two years;

                                (3)        8.6 additional FTEs in the Second Circuit’s Office of the Court
                                           of Appeals Clerk; and

                                (4)        12 additional FTEs for a circuit information technology security
                                           officer position in each of the circuit executive offices.

                               Bankruptcy Administrator Offices. As part of the scheduled five-year
                       updates of staffing formulas, the Committee considered proposed revisions to
                       the staffing formula for bankruptcy administrator offices. On recommendation
                       of the Committee, the Conference approved a new staffing formula for
                       bankruptcy administrator offices to be applied starting in fiscal year 2015,
                       which provides 55 FTEs, based on statistical year 2013 workload. The
                       Conference also adopted the Committee’s recommendation that two-year

                                                                   21
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 16, 2014
                       weighted caseload averages, rather than single-year values, should be used for
                       staffing formula calculations—with a 60 percent weight given to the most
                       recent statistical year data, and a 40 percent weight given for the statistical year
                       preceding the most recent statistical year.

                               Naturalization Ceremonies. In September 2013, the Judicial
                       Conference approved a new staffing formula for district clerks’ offices that
                       includes a constant value of .23 FTE staff for each district clerk’s office for
                       naturalization ceremonies (JCUS-SEP 13, p. 25) . While this allocation is
                       sufficient for districts performing naturalization ceremonies within a
                       reasonable range of the average number of ceremonies (29), or the average
                       number of oaths (4,089), several districts sustain workload well beyond the
                       reasonable range. To accommodate this additional workload, the Committee
                       recommended that the Conference allocate 8.33 FTE staff in fiscal year 2015 to
                       the following seven districts to support naturalization ceremonies: New York
                       (Eastern), Texas (Southern), Michigan (Eastern), Ohio (Southern), Arizona,
                       California (Central), and Nevada. It also recommended that the Conference ask
                       the Administrative Office to recompute annually the required staffing to
                       support naturalization ceremonies until implementation of the next staffing
                       formula update for district clerks’ offices. The Conference adopted the
                       Committee’s recommendations.


                       COURT INTERPRETER

                               The Committee on Judicial Resources recommended, and the Judicial
                       Conference approved, one full-time equivalent position for a Spanish staff
                       court interpreter for the District of Puerto Rico, beginning in fiscal year 2016,
                       based on the Spanish language interpreting workload in that court.


                       VOLUNTEER SERVICES IN THE COURTS

                              Citing an increasing number of volunteers serving in judges’ chambers
                       and the implications of such volunteer service for the judiciary’s human
                       resources policies, the Executive Committee asked the Judicial Resources
                       Committee, in consultation with other relevant committees, to consider and
                       take appropriate action (including policy recommendations to the Judicial
                       Conference) on the subject of unpaid law clerks in the federal courts. The
                       Committee expanded the scope of inquiry beyond volunteers in chambers to
                       include unpaid staff in courts and federal defender organizations (FDOs).
                       Taking into consideration guidance provided by the AO General Counsel, and

                                                               22
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 September 16, 2014

                       input from several committees, the Committee recommended the policy set
                       forth below regarding volunteer services in courts. Because of the unique role
                       volunteers play in FDOs, the Committee determined not to include those
                       offices in the recommended policy and to consider them separately at a later
                       date.

                       a.       A volunteer arrangement must focus, either exclusively or primarily, on
                                providing an educational experience for the volunteer. Any functions
                                for which specific statutory authority exists to accept volunteer services
                                (e.g., volunteer probation officers under 18 U.S.C. § 3602(a) or
                                individuals appointed to preside over proceedings under Federal Rule of
                                Appellate Procedure 33) are excluded from this educational experience
                                requirement. Formal pro bono programs in courts of appeals and
                                district courts are also excluded.

                       b.       A volunteer may provide no more than 2,080 hours of voluntary service
                                to the courts. Any functions for which specific statutory authority
                                exists to accept volunteer services (e.g., volunteer probation officers
                                under 18 U.S.C. § 3602(a) or individuals appointed to preside over
                                proceedings under Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 33) are
                                excluded from this time limitation.

                       c.       Courts may not accept volunteer services from individuals related to
                                judges or a public official of the court, consistent with the limitation on
                                the employment of certain relatives of a judge in 28 U.S.C. § 458(a)(1)
                                and the limitation on the employment of certain relatives of a public
                                official in 5 U.S.C. § 3110(a)-(c), to avoid possible perceptions of
                                favoritism.

                       d.       Existing conflict of interest rules and other related ethics guidance
                                apply to volunteers and courts when accepting services from volunteers.

                       e.       For chambers volunteers, in addition to the policies provided above:

                                (1)        Duty titles may not include any derivation of the term “law
                                           clerk.”

                                (2)        Time served by a law school graduate as a chambers volunteer
                                           may be creditable legal work experience for grade determining




                                                                  23
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  September 16, 2014

                                           purposes, but such service is not creditable as chambers law
                                           clerk experience.

                       The Judicial Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it approved a
                       recommendation from its Subcommittee on Judicial Statistics that the
                       Committee refrain from recommending new temporary judgeships in the 2015
                       Biennial Survey of Judgeship Needs and submit recommendations to the
                       Judicial Conference only for the creation of new permanent judgeships and the
                       conversion to permanent status or extension of existing temporary judgeships.
                       The Committee agreed to form a subcommittee and ask members from other
                       Judicial Conference committees to serve as liaisons to examine the grade levels
                       of court unit executives other than circuit executives and federal public
                       defenders, and to include in the study an earlier request regarding the grades of
                       clerks of the courts of appeals. The Committee decided to hold in abeyance
                       until its December 2014 meeting the request of the Administrative Office’s
                       Bankruptcy Clerks Advisory Group to reconsider the implementation of the
                       fiscal year 2016 staffing reduction (162.1 full-time equivalent staff) for
                       presumed shared administrative services in bankruptcy clerks’ offices that was
                       approved by the Judicial Conference in September 2012 (JCUS-SEP 12, pp.
                       22-23).


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL SECURITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it discussed with the
                       U.S. Marshals Service (USMS) leadership the Home Intrusion Detection
                       Systems (HIDS) program, which is solely funded by the USMS’s appropriation
                       and provides judges with a basic home alarm system. The USMS will
                       re-compete the HIDS contract in late fiscal year 2015, and has asked the
                       Committee to provide input about judges’ views on that program. As of June
                       2014, 1,666 judges participate in the HIDS program.




                                                                  24
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 16, 2014

              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
              OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                       APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT REGULATIONS

                                The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                       considered amendments to the Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the
                       United States Establishing Standards and Procedures for the Appointment and
                       Reappointment of United States Magistrate Judges to clarify the minimum
                       qualifications for appointment as a magistrate judge. On recommendation of
                       the Committee, the Conference agreed to amend the regulations (a) to make
                       clear under section 420.10.10(b)(4) that “no more than two years” of law clerk,
                       staff attorney, or pro se law clerk experience in a court may be counted toward
                       the five-year requirement of the active practice of law; and (b) to specify that
                       under section 420.10.10(b)(5) “other legal experience” be “substantial,” that it
                       have been performed after receipt of a law degree or license to practice law,
                       and that the categories of experience considered in subparts (1) through (4) of
                       section 420.10.10(b) not be considered as legal experience under section
                       420.10.10(b)(5).


                       CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                               After considering the report of the Committee on the Administration of
                       the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of the Administrative
                       Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Judicial
                       Conference agreed to—

                       EIGHTH CIRCUIT

                       District of North Dakota

                                Discontinue the part-time magistrate judge position at Grand Forks
                                upon the filling of the full-time magistrate judge position vacancy at
                                Fargo;




                                                                25
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 16, 2014

                       NINTH CIRCUIT

                       Northern District of California

                                Authorize an additional full-time magistrate judge position at San Jose
                                or San Francisco;

                       Western District of Washington

                                Authorize an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Seattle or
                                Tacoma and discontinue the part-time magistrate judge position at
                                Vancouver upon the filling of the newly authorized full-time magistrate
                                judge position;

                       TENTH CIRCUIT

                       District of Wyoming

                                Increase the salary of the full-time magistrate judge position at
                                Yellowstone National Park from 55 percent of the maximum salary of a
                                full-time magistrate judge position ($100,745 per annum) to 80 percent
                                of the maximum salary of a full-time magistrate judge position
                                ($146,538 per annum), and discontinue the part-time magistrate judge
                                position at Jackson; and

                       ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

                       Middle District of Florida

                                Authorize an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Tampa.


                       ACCELERATED FUNDING

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to
                       designate for accelerated funding, effective April 1, 2015, the new full-time
                       magistrate judge positions at San Jose or San Francisco in the Northern District
                       of California, at Seattle or Tacoma in the Western District of Washington, and
                       at Tampa in the Middle District of Florida.




                                                               26
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 16, 2014


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee reported that after full consideration of district-wide
                       survey reports prepared by the Administrative Office, it determined not to
                       recommend any changes in the number of authorized magistrate judge
                       positions in nine district courts. Pursuant to Judicial Conference policy
                       regarding the review of magistrate judge position vacancies (JCUS-SEP 04,
                       p. 26), for the period between its December 2013 and June 2014 meetings, the
                       Committee approved, through its chair, filling 19 magistrate judge position
                       vacancies. At its June 2014 meeting, the full Committee considered and
                       approved requests from five courts to fill six magistrate judge position
                       vacancies. The Committee also considered and approved requests to extend
                       the recall of nine retired magistrate judges, in one instance voting to approve
                       staff for only as long as the court maintains a magistrate judge position
                       vacancy.


              COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
                       FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed revisions of Official Bankruptcy Forms 3A
                       (Application for Individuals to Pay the Filing Fee in Installments), 3B
                       (Application to Have the Chapter 7 Filing Fee Waived), 6 Summary (Summary
                       of Schedules), 17 (to become 17A) (Notice of Appeal), 22A (to become 22A-1,
                       22A-1Supp, and 22A-2) (Statement of Current Monthly Income and Means-
                       Test Calculation), 22B (Chapter 11 Statement of Current Monthly Income), and
                       22C (to become 22C-1 and 22C-2) (Chapter 13 Statement of Current Monthly
                       Income and Calculation of Commitment Period and Disposable Income), and
                       proposed new Official Bankruptcy Forms 17B (Optional Appellee Statement of
                       Election to Proceed in District Court) and 17C (Certificate of Compliance With
                       Rule 8015(a)(7)(B) or 8016(d)(2)), together with Committee Notes explaining
                       the purpose and intent of the proposed changes. The Judicial Conference
                       approved the new and revised forms to take effect on December 1, 2014.


                       FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Civil Rules 1 (Scope and

                                                              27
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 16, 2014

                       Purpose), 4 (Summons), 16 (Pretrial Conferences; Scheduling; Management),
                       26 (Duty to Disclose; General Provisions; Governing Discovery), 30
                       (Depositions by Oral Examination), 31 (Depositions by Written Questions), 33
                       (Interrogatories to Parties), 34 (Producing Documents, Electronically Stored
                       Information, and Tangible Things, or Entering onto Land, for Inspection and
                       Other Purposes), 37 (Failure to Make Disclosures or to Cooperate in
                       Discovery; Sanctions), and 55 (Default; Default Judgment), and a proposed
                       abrogation of Civil Rule 84 (Forms) and the Appendix of Forms, together with
                       Committee Notes explaining the purpose and intent of the proposals. The
                       Conference approved the proposed changes and agreed to transmit them to the
                       Supreme Court for consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted
                       by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                       approved publication for public comment of proposed amendments to
                       Appellate Rules 4, 5, 21, 25, 26, 27, 28.1, 29, 32, 35, and 40, and Forms 1, 5,
                       and 6, as well as proposed new Form 7; proposed amendments to Bankruptcy
                       Rules 1010, 1011, 2002, 3002, 3002.1, 3007, 3012, 3015, 4003, 5009, 7001,
                       9006, 9009, and proposed new Rule 1012, and proposed amendments to
                       Official Forms 11A (to be abrogated), 11B (to be abrogated), 106J, 201, 202,
                       204, 205, 206Sum, 206A/B, 206D, 206E/F, 206G, 206H, 207, 309A, 309B,
                       309C, 309D, 309E, 309F, 309G, 309H, 309I, 312, 313, 314, 315, 401, 410,
                       410A, 410S1, 410S2, 416A, 416B, 416D, 424, and Instructions, and proposed
                       new Official Forms 106J-2 and 113; proposed amendments to Civil Rules 4, 6,
                       and 82; and proposed amendments to Criminal Rules 4, 41, and 45. The
                       proposed rules and forms were published on August 15, 2014, and the
                       comment period closes at midnight on February 17, 2015.


              COMMITTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
                       COMPONENT B PROJECTS

                               In September 2007, the Judicial Conference adopted a circuit rent
                       budget allotment methodology that divides the judiciary’s rent bill into three
                       components (JCUS-SEP 07, pp. 36-37). “Component B” of the rent bill funds
                       newly constructed courthouses or annexes and prospectus-level repair and
                       alteration projects, as well as necessary chambers and courtrooms for judges
                       taking senior status, replacement judges, and new judgeships. Although

                                                             28
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 16, 2014

                       chambers and courtroom requests generally require only Committee approval,
                       two such requests submitted in 2014—one for a chambers in Baltimore,
                       Maryland and one for a chambers and courtroom in Winston-Salem, North
                       Carolina—exceed U.S. Courts Design Guide standards with regard to usable
                       square feet, and thus also require Judicial Conference approval. The
                       Committee reported that the two projects exceed the designated square footage
                       due to the existing configuration of the space that is to be occupied, and that it
                       would be impractical to reduce the space to Design Guide standards. On
                       recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the
                       Component B requests for Baltimore, Maryland and Winston-Salem, North
                       Carolina.


                       NO NET NEW POLICY

                               In September 2013, as part of an effort to reduce the judiciary’s space
                       footprint, the Judicial Conference adopted a No Net New policy that provides
                       that any increase in square footage within a circuit needs to be offset by an
                       equivalent reduction in the square footage within the same year (JCUS-SEP 13,
                       p. 32). After receiving feedback from the courts indicating that it was difficult
                       to ensure that the acquisition and release of space occurred in the same year
                       because of the many variables outside of the courts’ control (e.g. construction
                       schedules, and timing of General Services Administration (GSA) acceptance of
                       the returned space), the Committee recommended that the policy be amended
                       to provide that the offset in square footage must be identified but not
                       necessarily released within the same fiscal year. The Conference adopted the
                       Committee’s recommendation.


                       SPACE RELEASE ALLOTMENT PROGRAM

                               In September 2012, as an incentive for courts to release space, the
                       Judicial Conference amended the circuit rent budget business rules to provide
                       an allotment of one year’s rental savings directly to a court that releases space,
                       to be available for use within two years, at the discretion of the chief judge of
                       the relevant court (JCUS- SEP 12, p. 32). Due to the limited amount of
                       funding for space release allotments, the popularity of the program, and
                       concern that large projects could absorb all of the funding, the Committee
                       recommended that the Judicial Conference approve a process for distribution of
                       space release allotments whereby, if there are insufficient funds, the AO will
                       distribute allotments over $100,000 on a phased basis and the Committee will


                                                               29
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 16, 2014
                       address requests for allotments in excess of $1 million on a case-by-case basis.
                       The Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                       ALTERNATIVE WORKPLACE STRATEGIES

                               The judiciary undertook the Integrated Workplace Initiative (IWI) in
                       2011 to identify innovative management, technology and space planning
                       techniques that are compatible with court operations. The goal was to optimize
                       space utilization and thereby reduce rental costs. Based on the study phase of
                       IWI, including surveys of over 3000 employees from 25 district and circuit
                       courts and proof of concept studies for a variety of court projects, the
                       Committee developed alternative workplace strategies that focus on the space
                       planning and standards component of IWI. The Committee recommended, and
                       the Judicial Conference approved, an alternative workplace strategies chapter
                       to be included in the U.S. Courts Design Guide. The strategies described in the
                       Design Guide chapter identify key components of an efficiently designed office
                       environment that supports mobile work, encourages collaboration, and is
                       compatible with modern technology.


                       CLOSURE OF NON-RESIDENT FACILITIES

                               The Judicial Conference considers non-resident court facilities for
                       closure based on criteria established in 2006 (JCUS-MAR 06, p. 28), and upon
                       the recommendation of the appropriate circuit judicial council (28 U.S.C.
                       § 462(b)(f)). After receiving notice that the Eighth Circuit Judicial Council had
                       approved ceasing district court operations in the federal building in North
                       Platte, Nebraska, the Committee recommended, and the Conference approved,
                       the closure of that facility.


                       FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       approved a Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan for FYs 2016-2020. All
                       projects on this Five-Year Plan were evaluated using the asset management
                       planning (AMP) process approved by the Judicial Conference in 2008 (JCUS-
                       SEP 08, p. 26) and were ranked based on their AMP urgency evaluation (UE)
                       score. All projects, except for the project in Nashville, Tennessee, are listed on
                       the Five-Year Plan in priority order based on their UE score. The Nashville
                       project retains its position on the Plan as the judiciary’s highest priority, even

                                                              30
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 16, 2014
                       though it does not have the highest urgency score, because of the substantial
                       investment that has already been made in that project and the substantial
                       progress that has been made on design, site acquisition, and site preparation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that it was updated on
                       the status of the Committee’s GSA Service Validation initiative, which focuses
                       on improving delivery of services that the judiciary receives from GSA in the
                       following areas: 1) appraisal methodology/return on investment pricing
                       practice; 2) overtime utility estimating and energy savings sharing; 3) space
                       assignment, classification and billing validation; and 4) project management:
                       scope, development, and estimating. The Committee also reported that the
                       Government Accountability Office, at the request of the House Committee on
                       the Judiciary, was engaged to conduct a study regarding Recovery and
                       Reinvestment Act funding to construct and repair federal courthouses or
                       convert them to green buildings; the study is expected to be completed in the
                       fall of 2014.

              FUNDING
                               All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                       funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                       the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                       establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                     Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                     Presiding




                                                              31
