REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


September 17, 2015


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on September 17, 2015, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                     First Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Jeffrey R. Howard
                                 Judge Paul J. Barbadoro,
                                        District of New Hampshire

                     Second Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Robert A. Katzmann
                                 Judge William M. Skretny,
                                        Western District of New York

                     Third Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                 Chief Judge Leonard P. Stark,
                                        District of Delaware

                     Fourth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.
                                 Judge Deborah K. Chasanow,
                                        District of Maryland

                     Fifth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Carl E. Stewart
                                 Chief Judge Louis Guirola, Jr.,
                                        Southern District of Mississippi
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           September 17, 2015

                                Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ransey Guy Cole, Jr.
                                           Judge Paul Lewis Maloney,
                                                  Western District of Michigan

                                Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Diane P. Wood
                                           Chief Judge Rubén Castillo,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                                Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Karen E. Schreier,
                                                  District of South Dakota

                                Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Sidney R. Thomas
                                           Judge Robert S. Lasnik,
                                                  Western District of Washington

                                Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe
                                           Judge Dee V. Benson,
                                                  District of Utah

                                Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ed Carnes
                                           Judge Federico A. Moreno,
                                                  Southern District of Florida

                                District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Merrick B. Garland
                                           Chief Judge Richard W. Roberts,
                                                  District of Columbia


                                                                2
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 17, 2015

                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Sharon Prost

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Timothy C. Stanceu

                               The following Judicial Conference committee chairs also attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Steven M. Colloton, Julia Smith Gibbons,
                       Thomas M. Hardiman, Diarmuid F. O’Scannlain, Reena Raggi, Anthony J.
                       Scirica, D. Brooks Smith, Jeffrey S. Sutton, and Timothy M. Tymkovich; and
                       District Judges Nancy F. Atlas, Catherine C. Blake, David G. Campbell, Gary
                       A. Fenner, Wm. Terrell Hodges, Irene M. Keeley, Royce C. Lamberth,
                       Lawrence L. Piersol, Danny C. Reeves, Richard Seeborg, William K. Sessions
                       III, Rodney W. Sippel, and Richard W. Story. Attending as the bankruptcy
                       judge and magistrate judge observers were Chief Bankruptcy Judge Brenda T.
                       Rhoades and Magistrate Judge Alan J. Baverman. Margarent A.Wiegand of
                       the Third Circuit represented the circuit executives.

                               James C. Duff, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
                       States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill
                       C. Sayenga, Deputy Director; Sheryl L. Walter, General Counsel; Katherine
                       H. Simon, Secretariat Officer, and Helen G. Bornstein, Senior Attorney,
                       Judicial Conference Secretariat; Cordia A. Strom, Legislative Affairs Officer;
                       and David A. Sellers, Public Affairs Officer. District Judge Jeremy D. Fogel,
                       Director, and John S. Cooke, Deputy Director, Federal Judicial Center, and
                       Chief District Judge Patti B. Saris, Chair, and Nicole O. Snyder, Assistant
                       General Counsel, United States Sentencing Commission, were in attendance at
                       the session of the Conference, as was Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to the
                       Chief Justice.

                              Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch addressed the Conference on
                       matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice.
                       Senator Charles Grassley and Representative Darrell Issa spoke on matters
                       pending in Congress of interest to the Conference.


              REPORTS
                              Administrative Office Director James C. Duff reported to the Judicial
                       Conference on the judicial business of the courts and on matters relating to the

                                                                3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2015

                       Administrative Office. Chief Judge Patti B. Saris reported on United States
                       Sentencing Commission activities and Judge Jeremy D. Fogel spoke to the
                       Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC) programs. Judge Thomas M.
                       Hardiman, Chair of the Committee on Information Technology, presented a
                       special report on information technology security and Judge Jeffrey S. Sutton,
                       Chair of the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, and Judge David
                       G. Campbell, Chair of the Advisory Committee on Civil Rules, presented a
                       special report on upcoming civil rules amendments.


              EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
                       RESOLUTION

                               The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
                       Committee to adopt the following resolution recognizing the substantial
                       contributions made by Judicial Conference committee chairs whose terms of
                       service will end on September 30, 2015:

                                The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
                                appreciation, respect, and admiration the following judicial
                                officers:

                                               HONORABLE NANCY F. ATLAS
                                                 Committee on Judicial Security

                                             HONORABLE DAVID G. CAMPBELL
                                               Advisory Committee on Civil Rules

                                       HONORABLE DIARMUID F. O’SCANNLAIN
                                        Committee on International Judicial Relations

                                                HONORABLE REENA RAGGI
                                              Advisory Committee on Criminal Rules

                                             HONORABLE RICHARD W. STORY
                                             Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction

                                           HONORABLE TIMOTHY M. TYMKOVICH
                                               Committee on Judicial Resources



                                                               4
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 September 17, 2015

                                Appointed as committee chairs by the Chief Justice of the
                                United States, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role
                                in the administration of the federal court system. These judges
                                served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference
                                committees while, at the same time, continuing to perform their
                                duties as judges in their own courts. They have set a standard
                                of skilled leadership and earned our deep respect and sincere
                                gratitude for their innumerable contributions. We acknowledge
                                with appreciation their commitment and dedicated service to
                                the Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.


                       UPDATE TO THE STRATEGIC PLAN
                       FOR THE FEDERAL JUDICIARY

                               Since its approval by the Judicial Conference in September 2010
                       (JCUS-SEP 10, pp. 5-6), the Strategic Plan for the Federal Judiciary has
                       served as a framework for national policy deliberations. The approach to
                       planning for the Judicial Conference and its committees, also approved by the
                       Judicial Conference in September 2010, calls for a review of the Strategic
                       Plan every five years. Starting in the summer of September 2014, Judicial
                       Conference committees were asked to consider progress achieved in
                       implementing the Strategic Plan, significant policy changes since 2010, trends
                       affecting the judiciary (particularly the judiciary’s uncertain budget outlook),
                       and other challenges facing the judiciary. Committees were then asked to
                       propose updates and revisions to the Strategic Plan. In consultation with the
                       Chief Justice, an Ad Hoc Strategic Planning Group was established to review
                       committee proposals for revisions and prepare a draft of an updated and
                       revised plan. In August 2015, the Ad Hoc Strategic Planning Group submitted
                       a proposed updated Strategic Plan to the Executive Committee for
                       consideration and recommendation to the Judicial Conference. At this
                       session, on recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Judicial
                       Conference approved the update to the Strategic Plan for the Federal
                       Judiciary.

                               The updated Strategic Plan preserves the original plan’s expression of
                       the judiciary’s mission and core values, and continues to be organized around
                       seven strategic issues: (1) the delivery of justice; (2) the effective and efficient
                       management of resources; (3) the workforce of the future; (4) technology’s
                       potential; (5) access to the judicial process; (6) relations with the other
                       branches of government; and (7) the public’s understanding, trust, and
                       confidence in federal courts. Most of the changes to the Strategic Plan are to

                                                                5
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 September 17, 2015

                       the narrative describing the Plan’s seven strategic issues and 13 strategies, and
                       to the Plan’s goals. These narratives now include fewer references to specific
                       projects and initiatives in order to avoid language in the Strategic Plan
                       becoming dated too quickly, and to provide maximum flexibility to Judicial
                       Conference committees in their policy deliberations.


                       CONFERENCE REGISTRATION FEES

                               A 1981 Judicial Conference policy prohibits the holding of circuit
                       judicial conference registration fees paid by conference attendees in the same
                       bank account with other funds paid by conference attendees for
                       conference-related events (JCUS-SEP 81, p. 62). The circuit executives, who
                       administer these funds, have noted that it would be more efficient and easier to
                       manage, reconcile, and disburse these funds if they were held in one account.
                       Separate tracking of the allocation of conference registration and specific
                       event fees would be continued. The Administrative Office’s Office of the
                       General Counsel determined that it is not a legal requirement to keep these
                       private, non-appropriated funds in separate accounts. On recommendation of
                       the Executive Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to modify its 1981
                       policy regarding the management of non-appropriated circuit judicial
                       conference registration fees to eliminate the restriction against commingling
                       these fees with other non-appropriated funds paid by circuit conference
                       participants.


                       AGGREGATE PAY CAP EXCEPTION FOR 2015

                              The aggregate pay for any court or federal public defender employee
                       may not exceed the salary of a district judge except to allow receipt of a
                       national judiciary award (JCUS-MAR 10, p. 18; Guide to Judiciary Policy
                       (Guide), Vol. 12, § 660.30(a)). Calendar year 2015 has an unusual biweekly
                       pay cycle of 27 pay periods,1 which will cause the salaries of some circuit and
                       court unit executives that are at, or close to, the pay limit to exceed that limit.
                       On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, the Executive
                       Committee, acting on behalf of the Judicial Conference on an expedited basis,
                       approved a one-time exception to the judiciary policy limiting the circuit and



              1
               There are normally 26 biweekly pay periods in a calendar year, but once every 11
              years there are 27.

                                                                6
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2015

                       court unit executive salaries to the salary of a district judge to accommodate
                       this unusual pay cycle.


                       MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                                The Executive Committee —

                       •        In accordance with Rule 2 of the Rules for the Processing of
                                Certificates from Judicial Councils that a Judicial Officer Has Engaged
                                in Conduct that Might Constitute Grounds for Impeachment, Guide,
                                Vol. 2, Pt. E, § 420(2), referred In Re: Judicial Complaints Nos.
                                11-14-90080, 11-14-90081, 11-14-90096 and 11-14-90101 to the
                                Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability for processing and the
                                preparation of a report with recommendations back to the Conference.

                       •        Pending congressional action on the judiciary’s appropriations for
                                fiscal year (FY) 2016, approved proposed FY 2016 interim financial
                                plans for the Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Court
                                Security, and Fees of Jurors and Commissioners appropriations
                                accounts, and endorsed a strategy for distributing allotments to court
                                units.

                       •        Expressed its unanimous support for the Administrative Office to
                                engage an outside, independent entity to conduct a security review and
                                testing of the judiciary’s information technology systems.

                       •        Asked the Director of the Administrative Office to expand the mission
                                statement of the Administrative Office’s Staffing Resources for Senior
                                Judges Working Group to include the issue of reimbursement of senior
                                judges’ commuting expenses.


              COMMITTEE ON AUDITS AND
              ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE ACCOUNTABILITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                       reported that it was briefed on initial feedback from court units that
                       participated in a risk-based audit pilot program, including on the challenges

                                                               7
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2015

                       that several court units encountered in producing requested documentation for
                       the risk-based audits. The Committee was also briefed on an ongoing audit of
                       four judiciary appropriations covering FYs 2013 to 2014, cyclical audits of
                       courts and federal defender organizations, and audits of Chapter 7 and 13
                       bankruptcy trustees and debtors in the six districts in Alabama and North
                       Carolina served by the bankruptcy administrator program. The Committee
                       discussed a legislative proposal to establish an inspector general for the
                       judicial branch, internal control program enhancements, and studies involving
                       the federal judiciary conducted by the Government Accountability Office.


              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
              OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                       RECALL REGULATIONS

                               On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
                       Bankruptcy System, the Judicial Conference amended its ad hoc and extended
                       service recall regulations for bankruptcy judges (Guide, Vol. 3, Chs. 9 and 10)
                       to increase their clarity and align them with the recall regulations for
                       magistrate judges. The Conference also delegated to the Bankruptcy
                       Committee the authority to make non-substantive, technical, and conforming
                       changes to the recall regulations.


                       SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT REGULATIONS

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference amended its
                       regulations for the selection and appointment of bankruptcy judges (Guide,
                       Vol. 3, Ch. 3) to modernize the language by removing the term “shall” and
                       replacing it with “must” and to add the requirement that the vacancy notice
                       include a statement that the individual selected will be subject to financial
                       disclosure reporting requirements pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of
                       1978, 5 U.S.C. app. 4, §§101-111. The Conference also delegated authority to
                       the Bankruptcy Committee to make non-substantive, technical, and
                       conforming changes to the bankruptcy judge selection and appointment
                       regulations.




                                                              8
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 17, 2015


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                       reported its recommendation to the Budget Committee for FY 2016 funding of
                       recalled bankruptcy judges, temporary law clerks, and the bankruptcy
                       administrator program. Additionally, the Committee concurred with the Court
                       Administration and Case Management Committee’s decision not to
                       recommend an inflationary increase for bankruptcy fees at this time and to add
                       language to the preamble of the Court of Appeals Miscellaneous Fee Schedule
                       to include selected services provided by the bankruptcy appellate panels (see
                       infra, “Fees,” p. 12). The Committee informed the Court Administration and
                       Case Management Committee, the Judicial Resources Committee, and other
                       interested parties of its concurrence with the request of the District of Montana
                       to consolidate its district and bankruptcy clerks’ offices (see infra,
                       “Consolidation of the District and Bankruptcy Court Clerks’ Offices in the
                       District of Montana,” pp. 11-12).


              COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
                       FISCAL YEAR 2017 BUDGET REQUEST

                               After considering the FY 2017 budget requests of the program
                       committees, the Budget Committee recommended to the Judicial Conference a
                       request of $6,744.6 million in discretionary appropriations, which is
                       3.6 percent above assumed discretionary appropriations for FY 2016 but
                       $49.6 million below the funding levels requested by the program committees.
                       The Judicial Conference approved the Budget Committee’s budget request for
                       FY 2017, subject to amendments necessary as a result of (a) new legislation,
                       (b) actions of the Judicial Conference, or (c) any other reason the Executive
                       Committee considers necessary and appropriate.


                       BUDGET CAPS

                               In an effort to control costs, the Judicial Conference has adopted caps
                       on growth in the judiciary’s budget, including a 4.9 percent average annual
                       cap on growth in space rental costs through FY 2016 (JCUS-SEP 06, p. 10), a
                       5.2 percent average annual cap on growth in the Salaries and Expenses
                       account through FY 2017 (JCUS-MAR 11, p. 9), a 5.2 percent average annual
                       cap on growth in the Court Security account through FY 2018

                                                              9
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2015

                       (JCUS- MAR 12, p. 8), and a 4.0 percent average annual cap on growth in the
                       Defender Services account through FY 2018, excluding increases in panel
                       attorney rates above inflation (JCUS-MAR 12, p. 8). Noting that the budget
                       caps have been recognized as a cost-containment tool by Congress and that it
                       would be advantageous to maintain the caps at their current levels, the
                       Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference extend the current
                       budget caps for space rental costs and for the Salaries and Expenses, Court
                       Security, and Defender Services accounts for the foreseeable future. The
                       Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Budget reported that it discussed the status of
                       the FY 2016 appropriations cycle and its joint congressional outreach efforts
                       with the Committee on the Judicial Branch. The Budget Committee also
                       discussed the current funding, staffing, and caseload issues facing the
                       bankruptcy courts and developed ideas to help assure the viability of the
                       bankruptcy system during this period of declining case filings. The
                       Committee discussed with the Commissioner of the General Services
                       Administration’s Public Buildings Service and the chair of the Committee on
                       Space and Facilities progress made on reducing the judiciary’s space footprint,
                       as well as the joint Service Validation Initiative between the judiciary and
                       General Services Administration.


              COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in March 2015, the Committee received 30
                       new written inquiries and issued 29 written advisory responses. During this
                       period, the average response time for requests was 18 days. In addition, the
                       Committee chair responded to 29 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                       members responded to 167 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                       responded to 511 informal inquiries, for a total of 707 informal inquiries.




                                                             10
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2015

              COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
              AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                        DESTRUCTION OF COURT-ORDERED WIRETAPS

                                 Title III of the Omnibus Criminal Control and Safe Streets Act of
                        1968, 18 U.S.C. § 2518, requires federal law enforcement agencies to obtain a
                        court order to intercept wire, oral, and electronic communications and
                        provides for how records related to the interception should be maintained.
                        Judges must seal applications and orders granting or denying wiretaps, as well
                        as the original recordings of the intercepted communications, and must
                        designate who retains custody of these records. The custodian must retain the
                        applications, orders and recordings for ten years and they may not be
                        destroyed thereafter except upon order of the denying or issuing judge. In
                        response to a request from a judge, the Committee on Court Administration
                        and Case Management, after consulting with the Executive Office for U.S.
                        Attorneys and the Committee on Defender Services, recommended proposed
                        guidance for judges on how to process applications for destruction of
                        court-ordered wiretap applications, orders, and recordings, including (1) how
                        to determine the commencement of the ten-year retention period; (2) what
                        criteria to consider when reviewing a motion to destroy a wiretap application,
                        order or recording; (3) who should consider the motion if the denying or
                        issuing judge is no longer on the bench; and (4) what procedures should be
                        used to ensure that the custodian of the record is notified of a court-ordered
                        destruction. The Judicial Conference approved the proposed guidance.


                        CONSOLIDATION OF THE DISTRICT AND BANKRUPTCY COURT
                        CLERKS’ OFFICES IN THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA

                                The district and bankruptcy courts in the District of Montana submitted
                        a joint proposal, endorsed by the Ninth Circuit Judicial Council, to consolidate
                        the district and bankruptcy clerks’ offices pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 156(d) and
                        Judicial Conference Procedures for Combining Functions of the Clerks’
                        Offices in the District Courts and Bankruptcy Courts (JCUS-MAR 98,
                        pp.10-11; Guide, Vol. 4, Ch. 2). The Committee on Court Administration and
                        Case Management and the Bankruptcy Committee both reviewed the proposal
                        and determined that it met the Conference requirements, including that the
                        consolidation is voluntary and is expected to produce cost savings without
                        decreasing the quality of services to judges, the bar, and the public. On
                        recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and Case


                                                              11
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2015

                        Management, in consultation with the Bankruptcy Committee, the Judicial
                        Conference approved the proposal to consolidate the district and bankruptcy
                        court clerks’ offices in the District of Montana. The proposal will be
                        submitted to Congress as required by 28 U.S.C § 156(d). See also infra, pp.
                        21-22, “Second Type II Chief Deputy Clerk Position for the District of
                        Montana.”


                        FEES

                                Central Violations Bureau Fees. In 2005, Congress authorized the
                        Judicial Conference to prescribe a fee for each violation notice processed
                        through the Central Violations Bureau (CVB) (Pub. L. No. 108-447).The fee,
                        which now appears as Item 15 on the District Court Miscellaneous Fee
                        Schedule, was set at $25 and has not been adjusted since its adoption in 2005.
                        On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to
                        increase the CVB processing fee for a petty offense charged on a federal
                        violation notice from $25 to $30, effective December 1, 2015.2

                                 Bankruptcy Appellate Panel Fees. Bankruptcy appellate panels
                        (BAPs) are three-judge panels authorized by the Bankruptcy Reform Act of
                        1994 (Pub. L. No. 103-394), to hear appeals of bankruptcy court decisions.
                        There are currently BAPs in the First, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth
                        Circuits. In 1997, the Judicial Conference directed the Administrative Office
                        to issue interim guidance to all BAP clerks to use the Court of Appeals
                        Miscellaneous Fee Schedule in determining which fees to charge for services
                        provided to the public (JCUS-SEP 97, pp. 60-61). To make the BAP fees
                        more transparent and accessible to the public, at this session, on
                        recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to amend the Court
                        of Appeals Miscellaneous Fee Schedule, effective December 1, 2015, to
                        clarify the schedule’s application to services provided by the BAPs.


                        REDEEM ACT

                             The proposed Record Expungement Designed to Enhance Employment
                        (REDEEM) Act of 2015, S. 675, 114th Congress, would create procedures for

              2
               Subsequent to the Conference session, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of
              the Conference, approved a request from the Committee on Court Administration and
              Case Management to change the effective date of the fee increase from December 1,
              2015, to June 1, 2016, to allow sufficient time to implement the new fee.

                                                              12
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 17, 2015

                        individuals to request the permanent sealing (or destruction, if the petitioner is
                        a minor) of the federal records of non-violent, non sex-related felonies,
                        misdemeanors, and petty offenses. Petitioners would not be eligible to obtain
                        relief until completing their terms of imprisonment, probation, or supervised
                        release, and would not be eligible at all if they had committed more than two
                        federal felonies. After reviewing the proposed legislation, the Committee
                        concluded that a number of provisions could impact judicial independence,
                        including by (1) requiring judges to resolve petitions under the bill within six
                        months, (2) not permitting judges to waive hearings sua sponte nor to hold
                        hearings if the parties waive them, and (3) limiting the information a judge
                        may consider, despite the bill’s broad requirement that judges weigh public
                        safety interests against the “conduct and demonstrated desire of the petitioner
                        to be rehabilitated and positively contribute to the community” and the
                        petitioner’s ability to “secure and maintain employment.” The Committee
                        also expressed concern over the bill’s potential impact on the civil workload
                        of the judiciary without providing additional resources or funding, a concern
                        also expressed by the Committees on Criminal Law and Federal-State
                        Jurisdiction in their review of the bill. To address these concerns, the
                        Committee on Court Administration and Case Management recommended
                        that the Judicial Conference —

                        a.       Oppose S. 675, the REDEEM Act (Record Expungement Designed to
                                 Enhance Employment Act of 2015, S. 675, 114th Cong.), or similar
                                 legislation, to the extent that it would limit judicial discretion in the
                                 management of cases and adoption of rules and procedures; and,

                        b.       Urge Congress to narrow significantly the scope of the REDEEM Act,
                                 or similar legislation, by specifying which offenders or offenses are
                                 eligible for judicial sealing of criminal records.

                        The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                        CIVIL JUSTICE REFORM ACT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

                                 In March 1998, the Judicial Conference required that direct appeals to
                        district court from a bankruptcy court pending over six months be included in
                        the statistical reporting system developed to meet the requirements of the Civil
                        Justice Reform Act of 1990 (CJRA) (Pub. L. No. 101-650) (JCUS-MAR 98,
                        p. 11). The pending date from which the six-month clock begins to run was
                        set at 60 days from the date of the docketing of the appeal in the district court.
                        At the time this pending date was established, Federal Rules of Bankruptcy

                                                                 13
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2015

                        Procedure allowed for a delay in filing the bankruptcy notice of appeal in
                        district court until the bankruptcy record was complete. The additional 60
                        days allowed the parties to brief the appeal fully before the matter was
                        considered pending. However, pursuant to recent revisions to the Federal
                        Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure that became effective in December 2014,
                        bankruptcy clerks must now “promptly” docket the bankruptcy notice of
                        appeal in the district court (see Bankruptcy Rule 8003). This change results in
                        the pending date occurring before the bankruptcy clerk transmits to the district
                        clerk either the complete record or notice that the record is available
                        electronically. In addition, the time for filing principal appellate briefs and
                        briefs in cross-appeals was extended, making 60 days insufficient to account
                        for the necessary briefs (see Bankruptcy Rules 8016 and 8018). On
                        recommendation of the Committee, the Conference amended the reporting
                        requirements so that appeals from a bankruptcy court to a district court
                        pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 158 are deemed pending 120 days after docketing of
                        the bankruptcy clerk’s transmission of the record or notice that the record is
                        available electronically with the district court.


                        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                 The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                        reported that as part of its efforts to protect cooperation information contained
                        in court filings, the Committee reviewed preliminary results from a survey
                        conducted by the Federal Judicial Center regarding harm experienced by
                        government cooperators as a result of availability of such information. The
                        Committee also established a cost-containment subcommittee to lead an
                        initiative to identify and evaluate a variety of fundamental, judiciary-wide
                        cost-containment proposals pertaining to the judiciary’s organizational
                        structure and evaluate these proposals to determine whether they will promote
                        efficiencies and reduce costs. In addition, the Committee asked its jury
                        subcommittee to work with the Administrative Office to review the Juror
                        Qualification Questionnaire and present recommendations for improvements
                        at the Committee’s December 2015 meeting.


              COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                       STATEMENT OF REASONS FORM

                              Section 994(w)(1)(B) of title 28, United States Code, requires that the
                       statement of reasons for a sentence in a criminal case be stated on a written

                                                               14
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2015

                       statement of reasons form issued by the Judicial Conference and approved by
                       the U.S. Sentencing Commission. On recommendation of the Committee on
                       Criminal Law, the Judicial Conference agreed to issue a revised statement of
                       reasons form, subject to approval of the form by the U.S. Sentencing
                       Commission. The revisions are primarily intended to provide the Sentencing
                       Commission with additional information about why courts impose sentences
                       outside the guideline range. Clarifying and organizational changes were also
                       made.


                       NATIONAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMISSION ACT

                               The proposed National Criminal Justice Commission Act of 2015,
                       H.R. 2330 and S. 1119, 114th Congress, would establish a commission to
                       conduct a comprehensive 18-month study of federal, state, local, and tribal
                       criminal justice systems. The commission would be made up of 14 members
                       appointed by the executive and legislative branches. Although the bills do not
                       prohibit the appointment of a federal judge, they do not explicitly provide for
                       such an appointment. Noting the potential impact that the commission’s
                       findings and recommendations could have on the administration of the federal
                       criminal justice system and on the federal courts, the Committee recommended
                       that the Judicial Conference support the inclusion of federal appellate, district,
                       or magistrate judges on any congressionally authorized body whose mission
                       includes reviewing the administration of the federal criminal justice system.
                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it reviewed and
                       endorsed the staffing formula for probation and pretrial services offices that
                       was recommended by the Committee on Judicial Resources for Conference
                       approval at this session (see infra, “Staffing Formulas for the Probation and
                       Pretrial Services Offices,” p. 24) and asked the Judicial Resources Committee
                       to start immediately on a new work measurement study to develop presentence
                       report case weights for all districts. The Committee also asked the
                       Administrative Office to begin developing a statement of work for day
                       reporting centers, which are highly structured non-residential programs that
                       coordinate supervision interventions, monitoring services, and rehabilitative
                       programming under one roof. The Committee recognized the 90th anniversary
                       of the Federal Probation Act, which established a professional probation staff


                                                               15
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2015

                       throughout the federal judiciary, and the 40th anniversary of the Speedy Trial
                       Act, which authorized the creation of pretrial services pilot projects.


              COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
                       THRESHOLD FOR BUDGETING NON-CAPITAL CJA PANEL
                       ATTORNEY CASES

                                In September 2003, the Judicial Conference agreed to add a new section
                       to the Guidelines for Administering the CJA and Related Statutes to encourage
                       the use of case budgeting techniques in non-capital representations that are
                       likely to be extraordinary in terms of cost. Guide, Vol. 7A, § 230.26.
                       Representations in which the attorney hours were expected to exceed 300 hours
                       or total expenditures were expected to exceed $30,000 for appointed counsel
                       and services other than counsel for an individual Criminal Justice Act (CJA)
                       defendant were identified as ordinarily fitting into this category. At the time
                       this regulation was adopted, the maximum non-capital CJA panel attorney
                       hourly rate was $90, and 300 attorney hours would be under $30,000. Noting
                       that at the current rate of $127 per hour, a greater percentage of representations
                       would be required to undergo case budgeting, the Committee recommended
                       that the Conference replace the $30,000 threshold with a formula of 300 times
                       the prevailing panel attorney hourly rate, rounded up to the nearest $1000, to
                       return the percentage of cases eligible for budgeting to approximately the same
                       level it was at when the regulation was originally adopted. The Conference
                       agreed and revised § 230.26.10, to provide as follows (new language
                       underlined, deleted language struck through):

                                Courts are encouraged to use case budgeting techniques in
                                representations that appear likely to become or have become
                                extraordinary in terms of potential cost (ordinarily, a
                                representation in which attorney hours are expected to exceed
                                300 hours or total expenditures are expected to exceed $30,000
                                300 times the prevailing CJA panel attorney non-capital hourly
                                rate, rounded up to the nearest thousand, for appointed counsel
                                and services other than counsel for an individual CJA
                                defendant).


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
                              The Committee on Defender Services reported that it met with Deputy
                       Attorney General Sally Q. Yates to discuss Department of Justice (DOJ)

                                                               16
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 17, 2015

                       policies and practices that have a significant impact on defender services
                       program costs. It also asked for DOJ support in efforts to create an “ex officio”
                       defender position on the U.S. Sentencing Commission (see, JCUS-MAR 04,
                       p. 11). The Committee received a status update on the comprehensive,
                       impartial review of the CJA program and was updated on the results of national
                       surveys of judges, CJA panel attorneys, and federal defenders, which are used
                       to assess the quality and effectiveness of the defender services program.


              COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it continued
                       its review of immigration reform legislation introduced in the House of
                       Representatives in the 114th Congress, focusing its attention on provisions that
                       would limit or preclude judicial review. The Committee also discussed a
                       proposal by the Section of Litigation of the American Bar Association to
                       amend the diversity jurisdiction statute, 28 U.S.C. § 1332, to redefine the
                       citizenship of unincorporated associations. Under the proposal, those entities
                       would “be deemed citizens of their states of organization and the states where
                       they maintain principal places of business.” In addition, the Committee was
                       briefed on the efforts of the Subcommittee on Civic Engagement of the
                       Committee on the Judicial Branch, including outreach to state courts that are
                       engaged in similar efforts.


              COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that it reviewed
                       options for modernizing the financial disclosure electronic filing system,
                       approved initiatives to clarify the reporting requirements for part-time and
                       recalled magistrate judges and recalled bankruptcy judges, and instituted a
                       procedure for notifying filers if an entry on a report that is related to outside
                       income, honoraria, or gifts appears not to be in compliance with the applicable
                       legal authorities. In addition, the Committee reviewed and approved a
                       procedure for responding to requests for waiver of the reproduction fees
                       charged to obtain financial disclosure reports.



                                                              17
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 17, 2015

                                As of June 17, 2015, the Committee had received 3,605 financial
                       disclosure reports and certifications for calendar year 2014 (out of a total of
                       4,234 required to file), including 1,143 annual reports and certifications from
                       Supreme Court justices and Article III judges; 296 annual reports from
                       bankruptcy judges; 484 annual reports from magistrate judges; 1,550 annual
                       reports from judicial employees; and 132 reports from nominees and initial and
                       final filers.


               COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                       LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.

                               Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612 and on recommendation of the Committee
                       on Information Technology, the Judicial Conference approved the fiscal year
                       2016 update to the Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the
                       Federal Judiciary. Funds for the judiciary’s information technology program
                       will be spent in accordance with this plan.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Information Technology reported that it discussed
                       technology security incidents that recently had been in the news, noting that
                       many cyber breaches can be prevented by consistently implementing basic,
                       low-cost steps such as these: keeping software up-to-date with security patches;
                       limiting administrative rights to modify information technology systems,
                       applications, and devices; and using complex passwords. The Committee
                       clarified security policy, noting the responsibility of users to protect their
                       credentials. It also endorsed a proposed strategy to move to a
                       judiciary-managed cloud solution for its unified communications infrastructure.
                       In addition, it concluded that a second authentication factor (such as a token or
                       session passcode) should be implemented as part of the solution for remote
                       authentication.




                                                          18
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2015

             COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 86 intercircuit
                       assignments were undertaken by 67 Article III judges from January 1, 2015, to
                       June 30, 2015. During this time, the Committee continued to disseminate to
                       circuit and district chief judges information about the intercircuit assignment
                       process and aided courts requesting assistance by identifying and obtaining
                       judges willing to take assignments.


              COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                       involvement in international rule of law and judicial reform, highlighting
                       activities in Africa, Europe and Eurasia, Latin America, the Middle East, and
                       South and Central Asia. Briefing reports about international rule of law
                       activities were provided by the United States Departments of State, Justice, and
                       Commerce, the United States Agency for International Development, the
                       United States Patent and Trademark Office, the Open World Program in the
                       legislative branch, the Ninth Circuit Pacific Islands Committee, the United
                       Nations Counter-Terrorism Executive Directorate, the Federal Judicial Center,
                       the Administrative Office, and U.S. court administrators. The Committee also
                       reported on hosting foreign delegations of jurists and judicial personnel for
                       briefings at the Administrative Office.


              COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
                       JUDGES’ RELOCATION REGULATIONS

                               On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
                       Judicial Conference adopted clarifying amendments to the Relocation
                       Allowances for Justices and Judges, Guide, Vol. 19, Ch. 3, which describes
                       when judges may be reimbursed for relocation. The changes are intended to
                       simplify the language, update erroneous citations, and ensure compliance with
                       General Services Administration regulations that govern relocation.


                                                             19
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2015


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it formed a new
                       Congressional Outreach Subcommittee with the goals of coordinating the
                       Committee’s outreach and liaison activities, making recommendations to the
                       Committee on relations with the legislative branch, and focusing on key
                       legislative initiatives that might affect the judiciary. The Committee also met
                       with former House of Representatives Majority Leader Richard Gephardt who
                       emphasized the importance of communication between judges and members of
                       Congress and encouraged judges to meet with their legislators.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY
                       RULES FOR JUDICIAL-CONDUCT AND JUDICIAL-DISABILITY
                       PROCEEDINGS

                                In March 2008, the Judicial Conference promulgated the Rules for
                       Judicial-Conduct and Judicial-Disability Proceedings (JC&D Rules)
                       (JCUS-MAR 08, p. 21). Since that time, the Committee on Judicial Conduct
                       and Disability has monitored the experience of the circuit judicial councils
                       regarding the implementation and application of the JC&D Rules and identified
                       areas where amendments might be necessary. Potential amendments were also
                       identified as a result of an April 2014 congressional hearing on the judicial
                       conduct and disability system. After providing opportunity for public comment
                       on proposed amendments and receiving input from judges and their staffs, the
                       Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, amended
                       Rules for Judicial-Conduct and Judicial-Disability Proceedings. Among other
                       things, the amendments include two new grounds for cognizable misconduct:
                       (1) “retaliating against complainants, witnesses, or others for their participation
                       in this complaint process;” and (2) “refusing, without good cause shown, to
                       cooperate in the investigation of a complaint under these rules.”


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that it
                       considered complaint-related matters under the Judicial Conduct and Disability
                       Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-364. The Committee and its staff have continued to
                       address inquiries regarding the Act and the Rules for Judicial-Conduct and


                                                               20
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2015
                       Judicial-Disability Proceedings and to give other assistance as needed to chief
                       judges, circuit judicial councils, and their staff.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                       COURT LAW CLERKS

                                The court law clerk program was initially established in March 2011 as
                       a three-year test to evaluate whether providing additional law clerks in district
                       courts with extremely heavy caseloads would expedite case resolution
                       (JCUS-MAR 11, p. 23). Courts selected to participate had to meet several
                       criteria evidencing high workload, including having greater than 300 case
                       filings per elbow law clerk (assuming two elbow law clerks per chambers). In
                       March 2014, based on initial indications of success, the Conference extended
                       the test for an additional three years and expanded the number of participating
                       courts from two to seven (by lowering the threshold case filings per elbow law
                       clerk from 300 to 250) to gather additional data (JCUS-MAR 14, p. 21). The
                       second phase of the test program is scheduled to end in September 2017
                       (JCUS-MAR 15, p. 20).

                                In response to requests from additional courts for assistance with
                       pressing staffing needs, the Administrative Office explored whether other
                       criteria might be used to identify courts for participation in a third phase of the
                       court law clerk test program. It determined that a criteria of 500 weighted
                       cases per elbow law clerk in lieu of 250 unweighted cases identified three
                       courts with significant workload challenges. On recommendation of the
                       Judicial Resources Committee, the Conference approved the establishment of a
                       third phase of the program for a period of three years, to commence October 1,
                       2015, to include authorization of 3.5 court law clerks for the District of
                       Delaware (inclusive of the court law clerk Delaware is already receiving as part
                       of Phase 2 of the test program), 5.5 court law clerks for the Eastern District of
                       Texas, and up to 3 court law clerks for the Southern District of West Virginia.


                       SECOND TYPE II CHIEF DEPUTY CLERK POSITION
                       FOR THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA

                              At this session, the Judicial Conference approved a proposal to
                       consolidate the district and bankruptcy court clerks’ offices in the District of
                       Montana, which will be submitted to Congress as required by


                                                               21
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2015
                       28 U.S.C § 156(d) (see supra, pp. 11-12, “Consolidation of the District and
                       Bankruptcy Court Clerks’ Offices in the District of Montana”). As part of that
                       proposal, the Ninth Circuit Judicial Council and the District of Montana have
                       requested a second Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP)-16 Type II chief deputy clerk
                       both to address the new demands of a consolidated environment and other
                       unique challenges in the district. Because the District of Montana has fewer
                       than ten authorized judgeships, even as a consolidated court, Judicial
                       Conference approval is required (see JCUS-SEP 04, p. 23). Noting that a
                       second JSP-16 Type II chief deputy clerk position is necessary to the successful
                       consolidation of the district and bankruptcy clerks’ offices under the proposal
                       and that consolidation will achieve cost savings, the Committee recommended,
                       and the Judicial Conference approved, a second JSP-16 Type II chief deputy
                       clerk position for the District of Montana, to be funded with the court’s
                       decentralized funds, assuming consolidation of the district and bankruptcy
                       court clerks’ offices in this district.


                       EXECUTIVE GRADES

                               The Committee conducted a comprehensive review of the target grades
                       for court unit executive positions in the courts of appeals, including for clerks
                       of court, senior staff attorneys, chief circuit mediators, and circuit librarians.
                       After obtaining input from other interested committees and from the
                       Administrative Office’s Human Resources Advisory Council, the Committee
                       recommended that the Conference approve the target grade of JSP-18 for the
                       court of appeals clerk of court position, and affirm the target grade of JSP-17
                       for the chief circuit mediator and senior staff attorney positions and the target
                       grade of JSP-16 for the circuit librarian position. Chief judges have discretion
                       to set grades at a level lower than the target grade. The Conference adopted the
                       Committee’s recommendation.


                       EXECUTIVE PAY

                               Optional Pay Policy. In September 2005, the Judicial Conference
                       approved the application of locality pay to circuit and court unit executive
                       salaries up to the salary of a district judge, to be applied at the request of the
                       chief judge on behalf of the court (JCUS-SEP 05, p. 29). This “optional” pay
                       policy was adopted to provide relief to unit executives, especially those in high
                       cost-of-living areas, who had reached the default pay cap of Executive
                       Schedule Level (EX)-III. Noting that all 13 circuit executives as well as
                       80 percent of the court unit executives in the judiciary are currently being paid

                                                               22
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 17, 2015

                       under this optional pay policy, the Committee recommended, as a matter of
                       equity and fairness, that the optional pay table become the pay table for all
                       circuit and court unit executive positions, effective September 21, 2015. The
                       Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.

                                Stratified Pay Caps. In March 2010, the Judicial Conference adopted
                       stratified pay caps for circuit and court unit executives under the optional pay
                       policy should the salary of a district judge increase (other than through
                       anticipated annual ECI-based pay adjustments) (JCUS-MAR 10, p. 19).
                       Following the pay adjustment received by district judges in December 2013,
                       the stratified pay caps have had the effect of suppressing locality pay for some
                       court unit executives in higher-cost areas, which has created an inequity in pay
                       among court unit executives. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                       Judicial Conference agreed to eliminate the stratified pay caps and maintain the
                       lesser of EX-I or the salary of a district judge as the locality pay cap to be
                       applied to circuit and court unit executive pay at all grade levels, effective
                       September 21, 2015.


                       PAY- SETTING POLICY FOR PROMOTION OF INTERNAL
                       APPLICANTS

                               Variable Promotion Percentage Rate. Since March 2010, the Court
                       Personnel System (CPS) promotion policy has provided that court unit
                       executives must establish a single CPS promotion percentage rate between one
                       and six percent to be applied to all promotions in a fiscal year (JCUS-MAR 10,
                       p. 20; Guide, Vol. 12, Ch. 6, § 645.40.20). The Committee on Judicial
                       Resources recommended that the Conference amend this policy to allow court
                       units the additional flexibility to determine the appropriate percentage rate from
                       a range of one to six percent for each individual CPS promotion action.
                       Permitting court units to adjust the promotion percentage rate based on the
                       needs at the time of recruitment would provide greater flexibility to meet local
                       business needs and to consider other factors such as the nature of the position,
                       internal equity, and the selectees’ qualifications. The Conference adopted the
                       Committee’s recommendation.

                               Full Performance Range. If an external applicant is selected for a
                       vacancy, the CPS pay-setting policy provides the appointing officer with the
                       discretion to set pay anywhere within the full performance range (Steps 26 to
                       61) where that applicant has unusually high or unique qualifications or there is
                       a special need for the applicant’s services. Guide, Vol. 12, Ch. 6, § 640.
                       Noting that such authority was not available for internal candidates upon

                                                              23
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 17, 2015

                       promotion, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference modify
                       the CPS pay-setting-upon-promotion policy for internal applicants to allow
                       courts to set pay anywhere above the first step of the full performance range
                       (Steps 26 to 61) when the employee has unusually high or unique qualifications
                       or there is a special need for an applicant’s services. The Conference adopted
                       the Committee’s recommendation.


                       STAFFING FORMULAS FOR PROBATION AND
                       PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICES

                               On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, in
                       consultation with the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial Conference
                       approved new staffing formulas for the probation and pretrial services offices,
                       with a modification for the southwest border districts to address the high
                       volume of cases managed by those districts. The modification for the
                       probation offices in the southwest border districts provides a total of 15
                       full-time equivalent (FTE) positions, in lieu of using a constant for the
                       presentence report factor within the formulas, allocated as follows: 5.1 FTEs
                       in the Southern District of Texas, 4.1 FTEs in the Western District of Texas,
                       2.0 FTEs in the District of New Mexico, 2.7 FTEs in the District of Arizona,
                       and 1.1 FTEs in the Southern District of California.


                       STAFFING FORMULAS FOR FEDERAL DEFENDER
                       ORGANIZATIONS

                               The Committee on Judicial Resources, in consultation with the
                       Committee on Defender Services, developed the first staffing formulas for the
                       traditional and capital habeas units of the federal defender organizations
                       (FDOs), which include federal public defender organizations (FPDOs) and
                       community defender organizations (CDOs). After collecting extensive data
                       and obtaining substantial input from the defender services community, the
                       Committee proposed a circuit-based set of formulas for traditional FDOs, with
                       appropriate exceptions for specific metropolitan locations, unique statistical
                       outliers, and most southwest border offices. A single formula was proposed for
                       the capital habeas units. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
                       Conference approved the following:

                       a.       The staffing formulas for the judiciary’s traditional and capital habeas
                                units of the FDOs;


                                                                24
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 17, 2015

                       b.       A phased implementation schedule that allocates100 percent of the
                                aggregate increase in full-time equivalent (FTE) positions supported by
                                the staffing formulas (288.8 FTEs), by the end of FY 2017;

                       c.       The use of rolling five-year averages for weighted case openings,
                                without severity codes, as determined by the 2014 RAND Corporation
                                study of federal defender case weights and filings;

                       d.       A two-year phased initial implementation period for any necessary FDO
                                terminations resulting from staffing formula implementation; and

                       e.       The use of a two-year stabilization period requiring two consecutive
                                years of increase or decrease in five-year weighted case openings to
                                require increases or decreases in FDO staffing levels.


                       VOLUNTEER SERVICES

                               In September 2014, the Judicial Conference approved a comprehensive
                       policy on the use of volunteer services in the courts (JCUS-SEP 14, pp. 22-24).
                       The policy was not applied to FDOs to allow time to consider the unique role
                       volunteers played in those organizations. At this session, after consulting with
                       the Committee on Defender Services, the Committee on Judicial Resources
                       recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, amending the policy on
                       volunteer services to include volunteers in federal public defender offices as set
                       forth below (new language underlined, deleted language struck through):

                       a.       A volunteer arrangement in a court or federal public defender
                                organization must focus, either exclusively or primarily, on providing
                                an educational experience for the volunteer. Any functions for which
                                specific statutory authority exists to accept volunteer services (e.g.,
                                volunteer probation officers under 18 U.S.C. § 3602(a) or individuals
                                appointed to preside over proceedings under Federal Rule of Appellate
                                Procedure 33) are excluded from this educational experience
                                requirement. Formal pro bono programs in courts of appeals and
                                district courts are also excluded. Volunteer professionals and
                                volunteers paid from an outside source in federal public defender
                                organizations are also excluded.

                       b.       A volunteer may provide no more than 2,080 hours of voluntary service
                                to the courts and federal public defender organizations. Any functions
                                for which specific statutory authority exists to accept volunteer services

                                                                25
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 17, 2015

                                (e.g., volunteer probation officers under 18 U.S.C. § 3602(a) or
                                individuals appointed to preside over proceedings under Federal Rule of
                                Appellate Procedure 33) are excluded from this time limitation.
                                Volunteer professionals and volunteers paid from an outside source in
                                federal public defender organizations are also excluded.

                       c.       Courts and federal public defender organizations may not accept
                                volunteer services from individuals related to judges or a public official
                                of the court, consistent with the limitation on the employment of certain
                                relatives of a judge in 28 U.S.C. § 458(a)(1) and the limitation on the
                                employment of certain relatives of a public official in 5 U.S.C.
                                § 3110(a)-(c), to avoid possible perceptions of favoritism.

                       d.       Existing conflict of interest rules and other related ethics guidance
                                apply to volunteers and courts and federal public defender organizations
                                when accepting services from volunteers.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it submitted to the
                       Committee on the Budget a FY 2017 budget request for programs under the
                       Judicial Resources Committee’s jurisdiction that was equivalent to a 2.0
                       percent increase over the FY 2016 baseline and that would result in 11,720
                       full-time equivalent positions for court staff under its jurisdiction. The
                       Committee adopted a schedule for upcoming work measurement studies and
                       received reports on the Online System for Clerkship Application and Review
                       (OSCAR) program and the Federal Judicial Center’s district court case
                       weighting study. The Committee agreed to consider proposed new case
                       weights for district courts at its December 2015 meeting.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL SECURITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it discussed steps
                       needed to improve and update the Physical Access Control Systems (PACS) in
                       courthouses nationwide. The Committee also discussed the process by which
                       the General Services Administration conducts background checks for contract
                       workers who access restricted judiciary space. Finally, the Committee met
                       with L. Eric Patterson, Director of the Federal Protective Service, who shared

                                                                26
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2015

                       his goals for the agency, which included developing stronger relationships and
                       lines of communications with the federal judiciary.


              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
              OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                       RECALL REGULATIONS

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       amended the magistrate judge ad hoc and extended service recall regulations,
                       Guide, Vol. 3, Chs. 11 and 12, to increase their clarity and make them more
                       consistent with the recall regulations for bankruptcy judges, where appropriate.
                       The Conference also delegated to the Magistrate Judges Committee the
                       authority to make non-substantive, technical, and conforming changes to the
                       magistrate judge recall regulations.


                       SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT REGULATIONS

                               On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
                       Magistrate Judges System, the Judicial Conference amended its regulations
                       establishing standards and procedures for the selection and appointment of
                       magistrate judges (Guide, Vol. 3, Ch. 4, § 420) to, among other things, remove
                       reference to a statutory conflict that has since been resolved, make clear that
                       applicants must personally submit their applications, and provide that courts
                       must include information in the public notice for appointment of a new
                       magistrate judge that magistrate judges are subject to financial disclosure filing
                       requirements pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978. The
                       Conference also amended the sample public notice and delegated to the
                       Committee the authority to make non-substantive, technical, and conforming
                       changes to the magistrate judge selection and appointment regulations.


                       CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                               After considering the recommendations of the Committee on the
                       Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the views of the
                       Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the
                       circuits, the Judicial Conference agreed to authorize (a) the conversion of the
                       part-time magistrate judge position at Wichita Falls in the Northern District of

                                                              27
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 17, 2015

                       Texas to a full-time magistrate judge position designated as Wichita Falls or
                       Fort Worth, upon retirement of the part-time magistrate judge at Wichita Falls;
                       and (b) an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Denver in the
                       District of Colorado.


                       ACCELERATED FUNDING

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to
                       designate for accelerated funding, effective April 1, 2016, the new full-time
                       magistrate judge positions at Wichita Falls or Fort Worth in the Northern
                       District of Texas and at Denver in the District of Colorado.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee reported that after consideration of 11 cyclical
                       district-wide magistrate judge survey reports conducted by the Administrative
                       Office, it determined not to recommend any changes in the number, locations,
                       salaries, or arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in those district
                       courts. Pursuant to Judicial Conference policy regarding the review of
                       magistrate judge position vacancies (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 26), for the period
                       between its December 2014 and June 2015 meetings, the Committee, through
                       its chair, approved filling 24 full-time magistrate judge position vacancies and
                       two part-time magistrate judge position vacancies in 24 courts. At its June
                       2015 meeting, the full Committee considered and approved requests to fill two
                       magistrate judge position vacancies. The Committee also considered requests
                       from ten courts for the recall or extension of recall of ten retired magistrate
                       judges.


              COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
                       FEDERAL RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Appellate Rules 4 (Appeal as of
                       Right–When Taken), 5 (Appeal by Permission), 21 (Writs of Mandamus and
                       Prohibition, and Other Extraordinary Writs), 25 (Filing and Service),
                       26 (Computing and Extending Time), 27 (Motions), 28 (Briefs), 28.1 (Cross-
                       Appeals), 29 (Brief of an Amicus Curiae), 32 (Form of Briefs, Appendices and
                       Other Papers), 35 (En Banc Determination), and 40 (Petition for Panel

                                                              28
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 17, 2015

                       Rehearing), and to Forms 1 (Notice of Appeal to a Court of Appeals From a
                       Judgment or Order of a District Court), 5 (Notice of Appeal to a Court of
                       Appeals From a Judgment or Order of a District Court or a Bankruptcy
                       Appellate Panel), and 6 (Certificate of Compliance With Rule 32(a)), and a
                       proposed new Form 7 (Declaration of Inmate Filing), together with Committee
                       Notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference approved the
                       proposed amendments and new form and agreed to transmit them to the
                       Supreme Court for consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted
                       by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                       FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

                               Rules. The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to
                       the Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1010
                       (Service of Involuntary Petition and Summons; Petition for Recognition of a
                       Foreign Nonmain Proceeding), 1011 (Responsive Pleading or Motion in
                       Involuntary and Cross Border Cases), 2002 (Notices to Creditors, Equity
                       Security Holders, Administrators in Foreign Proceedings, Persons Against
                       Whom Provisional Relief is Sought in Ancillary and Other Cross-Border
                       Cases, United States, and United States Trustee), 3002.1 (Notice Relating to
                       Claims Secured by Security Interest in the Debtor’s Principal Residence), and
                       9006(f) (Computing and Extending Time; Time for Motion Papers), and a
                       proposed new Rule 1012 (Responsive Pleading in Cross-Border Cases),
                       together with Committee Notes explaining their purpose and intent. The
                       Conference approved the proposed amendments and new rule and agreed to
                       transmit them to the Supreme Court for consideration with a recommendation
                       that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance
                       with the law.

                               Forms. The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed revisions
                       to Official Bankruptcy Forms 1 (Voluntary Petition), 2 (Declaration under
                       Penalty of Perjury on Behalf of a Corporation or Partnership), 3A (Application
                       for Individuals to Pay the Filing Fee in Installments), 3B (Application to Have
                       the Chapter 7 Filing Fee Waived), 4 (List of Creditors Holding 20 Largest
                       Unsecured Claims), 5 (Involuntary Petition), 6 Summary (Summary of
                       Schedules), 6A (Schedule A-Real Property), 6B (Schedule B-Personal
                       Property), 6C (Schedule C-Property Claimed as Exempt), 6D (Schedule D-
                       Creditors Holding Secured Claims), 6E (Schedule E-Creditors Holding
                       Unsecured Priority Claims), 6F (Schedule F-Creditors Holding Unsecured
                       Nonpriority Claims), 6G (Schedule G-Executory Contracts and Unexpired
                       Leases), 6H (Schedule H-Codebtors), 6I (Schedule I: Your Income), 6J

                                                             29
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2015
                       (Schedule J: Your Expenses), 6 Declaration (Declaration Concerning Debtor’s
                       Schedules), 7 (Statement of Financial Affairs), 8 (Chapter 7 Individual
                       Debtor’s Statement of Intention), 9A (Chapter 7 Individual or Joint Debtor No
                       Asset Case), 9B (Chapter 7 Corporation/Partnership No Asset Case),
                       9C (Chapter 7 Individual or Joint Debtor Asset Case), 9D (Chapter 7
                       Corporation/Partnership Asset Case), 9E (Chapter 11 Individual or Joint
                       Debtor Case), 9E (Alt.)(Chapter 11 Individual or Joint Debtor Case), 9F
                       (Chapter 11 Corporation/Partnership Case), 9F (Alt.)(Chapter 11
                       Corporation/Partnership Case), 9G (Chapter 12 Individual or Joint Debtor
                       Family Farmer or Family Fisherman), 9H (Chapter 12 Corporation/Partnership
                       Family Farmer or Family Fisherman), 9I (Chapter 13 Case), 10 (Proof of
                       Claim), 10A (Mortgage Proof of Claim Attachment), 10S-1 Notice of
                       Mortgage Payment Change), 10S-2 (Notice of Postpetition Mortgage Fees,
                       Expenses, and Charges), 12 (Order and Notice for Hearing on Disclosure
                       Statement), 13 (Order Approving Disclosure Statement and Fixing Time for
                       Filing Acceptances or Rejections of Plan, Combined with Notice Thereof),
                       14 (Class [ ] Ballot for Accepting or Rejecting Plan of Reorganization), 15
                       (Order Confirming Plan), 16A (Caption (Full)), 16B (Caption (Short Title)),
                       16D (Caption for Use in Adversary Proceeding), 17A (Notice of Appeal and
                       Statement of Election), 17B (Optional Appellee Statement of Election to
                       Proceed in District Court), 17C (Certificate of Compliance with Rule
                       8015(a)(7)(B) or 8016(d)(2)), 18 (Discharge of Debtor), 19 (Declaration and
                       Signature of Non-Attorney Bankruptcy Petition Preparer), 21 (Statement of
                       Social-Security Number(s) or Individual Taxpayer-Identification Number(s)
                       (ITIN(s)), 22A-1 (Chapter 7 Statement of your Current Monthly Income),
                       22A-1Supp (Statement of Exemption from Presumption of Abuse Under
                       §707(b)(2)), 22A-2 (Chapter 7 Means Test Calculation), 22B (Statement of
                       Current Monthly Income), 22C-1 (Chapter 13 Statement of Your Current
                       Monthly Income and Calculation of Commitment Period), 22C-2 (Chapter 13
                       Calculation of Your Disposable Income), 23 (Debtor’s Certification of
                       Completion of Postpetition Instructional Course Concerning Personal Financial
                       Management), 24 (Certification to Court of Appeals by All Parties), and
                       27 (Reaffirmation Agreement Cover Sheet), as renumbered in the
                       accompanying Modernized Official Forms Numbering Conversion Chart, and
                       the abrogation of Official Forms 11A (General Power of Attorney) and 11B
                       (Special Power of Attorney).

                               The Committee recommended that the revisions and abrogation take
                       effect on December 1, 2015, and that they govern in all proceedings in
                       bankruptcy cases thereafter commenced and, insofar as just and practicable, all
                       proceedings then pending, except that the following forms in effect on
                       November 30, 2015, remain Official Forms until December 1, 2017, in the
                       United States Bankruptcy Courts for the Central District of California, the

                                                             30
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 17, 2015
                       District of New Jersey, and the District of New Mexico, only for use by pro se
                       debtors who initiate a chapter 7 case by using the court’s Electronic
                       Self-Representation system: Official Form 1, Official Forms 6Sum, 6A-J and
                       declaration, Official Form 7; Official Form 8; and Official Forms 22A-1,
                       22A-1Supp, and 22A-2. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
                       recommendations.


                       FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Civil Rules 4 (Summons),
                       6 (Computing and Extending Time; Time for Motion Papers), and
                       82 (Jurisdiction and Venue Unaffected), together with Committee Notes
                       explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference approved the proposed
                       amendments and agreed to transmit them to the Supreme Court for
                       consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and
                       transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                       FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Criminal Rules 4 (Arrest
                       Warrant or Summons on a Complaint), 41 (Search and Seizure), and
                       45 (Computing and Extending Time), together with Committee Notes
                       explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference approved the proposed
                       amendments and agreed to transmit them to the Supreme Court for
                       consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and
                       transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                       approved for publication for public comment proposed amendments to
                       Bankruptcy Rule 1006(b)(1), the rule governing payment of the bankruptcy
                       filing fee in installments, and Evidence Rule 902, the rule on
                       self-authentication. Also approved for publication for public comment is a
                       proposal to abrogate Evidence Rule 803(16), the hearsay exception for “ancient
                       documents.” The rules were published on August 14, 2015, along with a
                       previously approved proposed amendment to Bankruptcy Rule 1001, the

                                                             31
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 September 17, 2015
                       bankruptcy counterpart to Civil Rule 1. The comment period closes on
                       February 16, 2016.


              COMMITTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
                       FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

                               Each year the Judicial Conference approves a Five-Year Courthouse
                       Project Plan that lists the judiciary’s courthouse construction priorities for the
                       upcoming fiscal year and four out-years and transmits it to Congress, the
                       General Services Administration (GSA) and the Office of Management and
                       Budget as part of the judiciary’s capital planning process. The methodology
                       used by the judiciary for placing projects on the Five-Year Plan has been
                       closely scrutinized by Congress and the Government Accountability Office
                       (GAO), and several recommendations have been made for its improvement.
                       To better manage stakeholder expectations, provide GSA with sufficient
                       certainty to proceed with capital planning, and respond to congressional
                       inquiries and GAO recommendations, the Committee recommended, and the
                       Judicial Conference approved, a change in the name and format of, and the
                       methodology used to develop, the courthouse construction plan, and approved
                       the resulting Federal Judiciary Courthouse Project Priorities (CPP). Under
                       the new format, Part I of the CPP consists of current-year courthouse
                       construction priorities that are included in the annual budget submission. The
                       priority of a project on Part I is maintained until it is fully funded. All out-year
                       projects are placed on Part II of the CPP, and prioritization of these projects
                       will be updated annually based on a projects urgency evaluation score
                       developed as part of the asset management planning process.


                       EXCEPTION TO THE U.S. COURTS DESIGN GUIDE

                               As a cost-containment measure, the Western District of North Carolina
                       has been operating a regional urinalysis testing lab in leased space that is used
                       by the probation offices in the Western, Middle and Eastern Districts of North
                       Carolina, and will be used in the near future, or is being considered for use, by
                       other districts in the region. The Western District of North Carolina requested
                       an exception to the U.S. Courts Design Guide standard for probation office
                       urinalysis testing labs, which limits such labs to 200 square feet, to construct a
                       regional urinalysis testing lab of 1,214 square feet in the proposed new
                       Charlotte, North Carolina, federal courthouse annex project. On


                                                                32
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 17, 2015
                       recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the
                       exception.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that it was updated on
                       the judiciary’s space reduction efforts and that while over a third of the target
                       has been achieved, a considerable amount of space still must be reduced. The
                       Committee encouraged circuits to contact Administrative Office staff and the
                       Committee if assistance is needed. The Committee was also presented with a
                       final report on the Service Validation Initiative, a joint effort of the federal
                       judiciary and the GSA to improve the quality of services that GSA provides to
                       the courts. The Committee and GSA are pleased with the unprecedented
                       collaboration between the two branches of government that led to the final
                       report, but recognize that widespread communication about the Initiative and
                       careful implementation of its recommendations are critical to its success.


              FUNDING
                               All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                       funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                       the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                       establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                     Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                     Presiding




                                                              33
