REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


March 10, 2015

                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on March 10, 2015, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. Chief Judge William B. Traxler,
             Jr., Chair of the Executive Committee of the Judicial Conference, presided
             pursuant to a delegation from the Chief Justice, and the following members of
             the Conference were present:

                    First Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                Judge Paul J. Barbadoro,
                                       District of New Hampshire

                    Second Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Robert A. Katzmann
                                Judge William M. Skretny,
                                       Western District of New York

                    Third Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                Chief Judge Leonard P. Stark,
                                       District of Delaware

                    Fourth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.
                                Judge Deborah K. Chasanow,
                                       District of Maryland

                    Fifth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Carl E. Stewart
                                Chief Judge Louis Guirola, Jr.,
                                       Southern District of Mississippi
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           March 10, 2015

                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ransey Guy Cole, Jr.
                                           Chief Judge Paul Lewis Maloney,
                                                  Western District of Michigan

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Diane P. Wood
                                           Chief Judge Rubén Castillo,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Karen E. Schreier,
                                                  District of South Dakota

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Sidney R. Thomas
                                           Judge Robert S. Lasnik,
                                                  Western District of Washington

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe
                                           Judge Dee V. Benson,
                                                  District of Utah

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ed Carnes
                                           Judge Federico A. Moreno,
                                                  Southern District of Florida

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Merrick B. Garland
                                           Chief Judge Richard W. Roberts,
                                                  District of Columbia


                                                               2
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            March 10, 2015

                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Sharon Prost

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Timothy C. Stanceu

                               The following Judicial Conference committee chairs also attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Steven M. Colloton, Julia Smith Gibbons,
                       Thomas M. Hardiman, Sandra Segal Ikuta, Diarmuid F. O’Scannlain, Reena
                       Raggi, Anthony J. Scirica, D. Brooks Smith, Jeffrey S. Sutton, and Timothy
                       M. Tymkovich; District Judges Nancy F. Atlas, Catherine C. Blake, David G.
                       Campbell, Gary A. Fenner, Wm. Terrell Hodges, Irene M. Keeley, Royce C.
                       Lamberth, Lawrence L. Piersol, Danny C. Reeves, Richard Seeborg, William
                       K. Sessions III, Rodney W. Sippel, Rebecca Beach Smith, and Richard W.
                       Story. Attending as the bankruptcy judge and magistrate judge observers,
                       respectively, were Chief Bankruptcy Judge Brenda T. Rhoades and Magistrate
                       Judge Alan J. Baverman. Margaret A. Wiegand of the Third Circuit
                       represented the circuit executives.

                               James C. Duff, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
                       States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill C. Sayenga,
                       Deputy Director; Robert K. Loesche, General Counsel; Sheryl L. Walter,
                       Deputy General Counsel; Katherine H. Simon, Secretariat Officer, and Helen
                       G. Bornstein, Senior Attorney, Judicial Conference Secretariat; Cordia A.
                       Strom, Legislative Affairs Officer; and David A. Sellers, Public Affairs
                       Officer. District Judge Jeremy D. Fogel, Director, and John S. Cooke, Deputy
                       Director, Federal Judicial Center; and Chief District Judge Patti B. Saris,
                       Chairman, and Kenneth P. Cohen, Staff Director, United States Sentencing
                       Commission, were in attendance at the session of the Conference, as was
                       Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to the Chief Justice.

                               Acting Deputy Attorney General Sally Quillian Yates addressed the
                       Conference on matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department
                       of Justice.


              REPORTS
                              James C. Duff reported to the Conference on the judicial business of
                       the courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge

                                                                3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 10, 2015

                      Fogel spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC) programs,
                      and Chief Judge Saris reported on United States Sentencing Commission
                      activities. Judge D. Brooks Smith, Chair of the Committee on Space and
                      Facilities, presented a report on space reduction efforts.


             ELECTION

                              The Judicial Conference elected to the Board of the Federal Judicial
                      Center, for a term of four years, Judge Curtis Lynn Collier, United States
                      District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, and Judge Kimberly J.
                      Mueller, United States District Court for the Eastern District of California, to
                      succeed Judge James F. Holderman, Jr., United States District Court for the
                      Northern District of Illinois, and Judge Kathryn H. Vratil, United States
                      District Court for the District of Kansas.


             EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
                      RESOLUTIONS

                              Outgoing Committee Chairs. The Judicial Conference approved a
                      recommendation of the Executive Committee to adopt the following
                      resolution recognizing the substantial contributions made by two Judicial
                      Conference committee chairs whose terms of service ended in 2015.

                               The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
                               appreciation, respect, and admiration the following judicial
                               officers:

                                           HONORABLE ROBERT A. KATZMANN
                                              Committee on the Judicial Branch

                                             HONORABLE JOEL A. PISANO
                                            Committee on the Administration of the
                                                 Magistrate Judges System

                               Appointed as committee chairs by the Chief Justice of the
                               United States, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role
                               in the administration of the federal court system. These judges
                               served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference

                                                               4
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 10, 2015

                                committees while, at the same time, continuing to perform their
                                duties as judges in their own courts. They have set a standard
                                of skilled leadership and earned our deep respect and sincere
                                gratitude for their innumerable contributions. We acknowledge
                                with appreciation their commitment and dedicated service to
                                the Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.

                              Director of the Administrative Office. On recommendation of the
                       Executive Committee, the Judicial Conference approved a resolution in
                       recognition of Judge John D. Bates’ service as the Director of the
                       Administrative Office from 2013-2014.


                       FISCAL YEAR 2015 FINAL FINANCIAL PLANS

                               At its February 2015 meeting, the Executive Committee approved final
                       financial plans for fiscal year 2015 for the Salaries and Expenses (S&E),
                       Defender Services, Court Security, and Fees of Jurors and Commissioners
                       accounts, which reflect the enacted appropriations contained in the
                       Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015, Pub. L. No.
                       113-235, and updated requirements, carryforward balances, and estimated fee
                       collections. The final plan for the S&E account funds approximately 95
                       percent of courts’ formula requirements and is sufficient for most court units
                       to maintain on-board staffing levels and to hire additional staff, as needed, to
                       address caseload and other workload needs. The approved final plans for the
                       Defender Services, Court Security, and Fees of Jurors and Commissioners
                       accounts include funding adequate to meet program requirements.


                       MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                                The Executive Committee —

                       •        Endorsed the Chief Justice’s selection of James C. Duff as the new
                                Director of the Administrative Office.

                       •        Reviewed the determinations of Conference committees as to whether
                                the judiciary should pursue in the 114th Congress, or defer pursuit of,
                                Conference-approved legislative proposals within those committees’
                                jurisdictions. This review occurs biennially, at the beginning of each
                                new Congress.


                                                               5
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 10, 2015

                      •        Clarified that while data collection for the cameras in the courtroom
                               pilot project will conclude on July 18, 2015, participating courts may
                               continue to record proceedings and post them on uscourts.gov until the
                               Judicial Conference considers recommendations regarding the pilot,
                               which may occur at its March 2016 session.


             COMMITTEE ON AUDITS AND
             ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE ACCOUNTABILITY
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                      reported that an independent audit firm briefed the Committee on the progress
                      of an audit of the judiciary’s appropriations and of a pilot in which volunteer
                      court units and federal defender organizations undergo a risk-based, rather
                      than standard, cyclical audit. The firm also briefed the Committee on audits
                      of registry investments, retirement trust funds, the Public Access to Court
                      Electronic Records (PACER) program, and the Central Violations Bureau.
                      The Committee concurred with a recommendation of the Committee on
                      Criminal Law that the Judicial Conference extend its longstanding opposition
                      to an inspector general for the federal judiciary to legislation that would create
                      an inspector general for the probation and pretrial services system (see infra,
                      “Inspector General Legislation,” p. 12).


             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
             OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                      BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                              The Judicial Conference conducts a biennial survey to evaluate
                      requests for additional bankruptcy judgeships and transmits its
                      recommendations to Congress, which establishes the number of bankruptcy
                      judgeships in each judicial district (28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(2)). Based on the
                      results of the 2014 biennial survey of additional judgeship needs, the
                      Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System recommended
                      that the Judicial Conference ask Congress to authorize 6 additional permanent
                      judgeships and convert 16 existing temporary judgeships to permanent status



                                                              6
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 10, 2015

                       as set forth below (“P” denotes permanent; “T/P” denotes conversion of
                       temporary to permanent):

                                Puerto Rico                 2 T/P
                                Delaware                    2 P, 5 T/P
                                Maryland                    2 T/P
                                North Carolina (Eastern)    1 T/P
                                Virginia (Eastern)          1 T/P
                                Michigan (Eastern)          2 P, 1 T/P
                                Tennessee (Western)         1 T/P
                                Nevada                      1 T/P
                                Florida (Middle)            2P
                                Florida (Southern)          2 T/P

                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       GUIDANCE FOR PROTECTION OF TAX INFORMATION

                               The Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of
                       2005 (Pub. L. No. 109-8) expanded the list of tax documents a debtor must
                       file under 11 U.S.C. § 521 and requires that courts make those documents
                       available to any party in interest in accordance with procedures adopted by the
                       Director of the Administrative Office that safeguard the confidentiality of the
                       information. In September 2005, the Judicial Conference endorsed the
                       Director’s interim guidance for filing tax information that balanced the
                       disclosure requirements of 11 U.S.C. § 521 with the need to protect sensitive
                       financial and personal information from unrestricted dissemination (JCUS-
                       SEP 05, p.13). At this session, the Committee recommended, and the
                       Conference approved, amendments to clarify and finalize the guidance, which
                       is codified in the Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 4, Ch. 8, § 830. The
                       Conference also authorized the Bankruptcy Committee to make
                       non-substantive, technical, and conforming changes to the guidance, as
                       needed.


                       LEGISLATION

                               As part of the biennial review of Conference-approved legislative
                       positions that the Executive Committee asks each committee to perform at the
                       beginning of a new Congress (see supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” p. 5),
                       committees are asked not only which positions should be pursued in a new

                                                              7
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                    March 10, 2015

                      Congress, but also whether any positions not being pursued should be
                      rescinded. As part of the biennial review for the 114th Congress, the
                      Committee considered several legislative positions relating to the bankruptcy
                      administrator and U.S. trustee programs and recommended that the following
                      two positions be rescinded:

                      a.       to seek legislation to permit judicial districts to opt out of the United
                               States trustee system and into the bankruptcy administrator program
                               (JCUS-MAR 90, pp. 12-13); and

                      b.       to seek legislation to transfer the U.S. trustee program from the
                               Department of Justice to the judiciary (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 61; JCUS-
                               SEP 95, p. 53; JCUS-SEP 98, p. 55).

                      The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                      reported that it is continuing to review and provide oversight of bankruptcy
                      judgeship resources and that it discussed the urgent situation regarding 29
                      temporary bankruptcy judgeships. Those judgeships will lapse on May 25,
                      2017 unless action is taken by Congress to convert them to permanent status
                      or extend their lapse dates. The Committee concurred with the Court
                      Administration and Case Management Committee’s proposed guidance on fee
                      exemptions for the United States (see infra, “Miscellaneous Fee Exemption,”
                      pp. 9-10), and the determination not to consider imposing a new fee on repeat
                      bankruptcy filers, but will request that the Court Administration and Case
                      Management Committee reconsider the decision not to amend Item 11 of the
                      Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule to clarify the bankruptcy
                      court’s discretion to waive the reopening fee in certain chapter 11 cases.


             COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on the Budget reported that the fiscal year 2016
                      appropriations cycle is likely to be challenging because of the flat,
                      non-defense discretionary spending cap as well as continued congressional


                                                                8
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 10, 2015

                       interest in deficit reduction. Therefore, the judiciary must continue to make
                       cost containment a top priority. The Committee also reported that
                       congressional outreach will be particularly important in the upcoming
                       appropriations cycle because of membership changes in the 114th Congress on
                       the House and Senate Appropriations Committees and their Financial Services
                       and General Government appropriations subcommittees. The Committee
                       recommended that a local outreach campaign in coordination with the Judicial
                       Branch Committee be resumed in the spring of 2015 to educate new members
                       of Congress about the judiciary and its role in the administration of justice.


              COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in September 2014, it received 28 new written
                       inquiries and issued 30 written advisory responses. During this period, the
                       average response time for such requests was 16 days. In addition, the
                       Committee chair responded to 59 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                       members responded to 127 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                       responded to 534 informal inquiries, for a total of 720 informal inquiries.


              COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
              AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                       MISCELLANEOUS FEE EXEMPTION

                               The Judicial Conference prescribes miscellaneous fees for the
                       appellate, district, and bankruptcy courts, the Court of Federal Claims, and the
                       Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, as well as for electronic public
                       access to court records.1 Each fee schedule includes certain fee exemptions


              1
               The miscellaneous fee schedule for the courts of appeals is authorized by 28 U.S.C.
              § 1913; the district courts by 28 U.S.C. § 1914(b); the bankruptcy courts by
              28 U.S.C. § 1930(b); the Court of Federal Claims by 28 U.S.C. § 1926(a); and the
              Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation by 28 U.S.C. § 1932. The Electronic Public
              Access Fee Schedule is authorized in Pub. L. No. 107-347 (Dec. 17, 2002), and is
              reproduced in the notes following each of the above statutory sections.

                                                              9
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 10, 2015

                      for the “United States.” To provide guidance on how to apply this exemption,
                      and to ensure consistency in its application, the Committee on Court
                      Administration and Case Management recommended, and the Judicial
                      Conference approved, a national policy for inclusion in the Guide to Judiciary
                      Policy, Vol. 4, Ch. 6 (Fees), to clarify—

                      a.       that the exemption for the “United States” contained in the court
                               miscellaneous fee schedules applies exclusively to any department,
                               agency, or instrumentality in the executive or legislative branches of
                               the United States Government (USG), any independent federal agency
                               or wholly owned USG corporation, and Federal Reserve banks and
                               branches;

                      b.       that the exemption is not available for private individuals or entities
                               solely because of contractual relationships with federal government
                               entities; and

                      c.       that entities seeking to receive this (or any) fee exemption bear the
                               burden of establishing that they are entitled to the exemption.

                             Federal agencies or programs that are funded from judiciary
                      appropriations are subject to a separate exemption and are not covered by this
                      guidance.


                      CJRA REPORT ON PENDING CIVIL CASES

                              The Civil Justice Reform Act (CJRA) requires the Director of the
                      Administrative Office to prepare semi-annual reports showing, among other
                      things, civil cases pending more than three years and civil motions pending
                      more than six months, by judicial officer, and authorizes the Director to
                      establish standards for such reporting (28 U.S.C. §§ 476, 481). The
                      Department of Justice (DOJ) asked the Committee to consider an amendment
                      to the reporting instructions for qui tam cases brought under the False Claims
                      Act (31 U.S.C. §§ 3729-3733). Currently such cases are considered pending
                      on the date the complaint is filed. However, qui tam cases are initially sealed
                      and not served on the defendant while the government investigates the
                      complaint and determines whether to intervene, and this process can be
                      lengthy. The DOJ asked that the pending date be changed to the date that the
                      complaint is unsealed and served on the defendant so that CJRA reporting
                      requirements do not enter into the decision of when to unseal the matter. On
                      recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to amend the

                                                               10
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 10, 2015

                       CJRA reporting instructions to provide that the pending date for qui tam cases
                       brought under the False Claims Act be the date on which the case is first
                       unsealed by the court.


                       RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT FOR DISTRICT COURT CLERKS

                               The Committee was asked for its views on a proposal to amend
                       28 U.S.C. § 751(c) to provide for a limited exception to the requirement that
                       the clerk of a district court reside in the district to which he or she is
                       appointed. Noting that the workforce is becoming increasingly mobile and
                       that technological advances are significantly changing the way business is
                       conducted, the Committee agreed that limited exceptions to the residency
                       requirement for district clerks may be warranted. The Committee
                       recommended that the Conference support an amendment to 28 U.S.C.
                       § 751(c) to allow a waiver of the clerk of court residency requirement if the
                       clerk demonstrates to the court that the court’s operations will not be impeded
                       by the location of the clerk’s residence and obtains approval from the court.
                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                       reported on its continuing efforts to establish national procedures for
                       protecting cooperation information contained in court filings. The Committee
                       asked its Privacy Subcommittee to work with the Criminal Law and Defenders
                       Services Committees, as well as the Federal Judicial Center, to survey federal
                       defenders, Criminal Justice Act panel attorneys, federal prosecutors, chief
                       probation officers, and judges to better determine the extent to which
                       convicted inmates are threatened or harmed as a result of cooperating with the
                       government. The Committee also considered the consequences of online
                       access to personal and sensitive medical information contained in judicial
                       opinions in Social Security disability appeals and referred the matter to its
                       Privacy Subcommittee. In addition, the Committee asked its Records
                       Subcommittee to develop guidance for judges to consider when determining
                       whether to grant a motion to destroy a court-ordered wiretap application,
                       order, or recording.




                                                             11
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 10, 2015

             COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                      INSPECTOR GENERAL LEGISLATION

                               Legislation introduced in 113th Congress, the Federal Probation System
                      Reform Act (H.R. 3669), would have established an inspector general for the
                      federal probation and pretrial services system. The Judicial Conference has a
                      longstanding position strongly opposing the creation of an inspector general in
                      the judicial branch (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 7). Although the inspector general
                      proposed in H.R. 3669 would oversee only the probation and pretrial services
                      system and not the judiciary as a whole, the Committee on Criminal Law
                      concluded that the same concerns that were expressed in 1996—that an
                      inspector general would threaten the independence of federal judicial
                      decision-making and be duplicative of the judiciary’s already rigorous and
                      effective system for audit, review, and investigation—would still apply. On
                      recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed, based on
                      its historic opposition to an inspector general for the federal judiciary, to
                      oppose the Federal Probation System Reform Act (H.R. 3669, 113th Cong.),
                      or similar legislation, that would create an inspector general for the probation
                      and pretrial services system, on the grounds that such legislation fails to
                      adequately protect judicial independence and would wastefully duplicate
                      existing oversight functions in the judicial branch.


                      CONSOLIDATION OF PROBATION AND PRETRIAL SERVICES
                      OFFICES

                               In March 2005, in the context of considering whether savings could be
                      achieved by consolidating any remaining separate probation and pretrial
                      services offices, the Judicial Conference reaffirmed the policy that the form of
                      organization for providing pretrial services should be determined by individual
                      district courts and their respective circuit councils, but that districts that had
                      not considered the issue of consolidation of their separate offices should do so
                      when a chief probation or pretrial services officer retired or is transferred and
                      consolidation may serve as a means to achieve additional economies and
                      efficiencies without compromising the mission of pretrial services (JCUS
                      MAR-05, pp. 14-15). At this session, to raise awareness among chief judges
                      about the importance of scrutinizing costs associated with maintaining
                      separate offices, on recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed
                      to modify its March 2005 policy to further require that the chief judge of any
                      district court that decides to maintain separate probation and pretrial services


                                                             12
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 10, 2015

                       offices upon the vacancy of one of the chief positions must submit a report to
                       the chief judge of the circuit, explaining the court’s decision, and provide a
                       copy of the report to the Director of the Administrative Office.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Criminal Law reported that Committee chair, Judge
                       Irene M. Keeley, appeared before the Charles Colson Task Force on Federal
                       Corrections to share the judiciary’s views on federal sentencing and
                       corrections policies that impact prison overcrowding and the administration of
                       the federal criminal justice system, including the Conference’s longstanding
                       opposition to mandatory minimum sentences, concerns about the
                       over-federalization of crimes, and the continued need for resources for
                       probation and pretrial services operations. In connection with its December
                       2014 meeting, the Committee toured the Probation and Pretrial Services
                       National Training Academy, located in North Charleston, South Carolina. In
                       order to eliminate the backlog in training that resulted from sequestration of
                       appropriations mandated by the Budget Control Act of 2011, AO staff
                       developed an abbreviated curriculum that will be used for the new officer
                       programs offered in 2015. The Committee supports the temporary change in
                       the curriculum and expects that the academy will return to its full curriculum
                       in 2016.


              COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Defender Services reported that it was updated on
                       the current status of the first work measurement study of federal defender
                       organizations. The Committee also received a status update on the upcoming
                       comprehensive, impartial review of the Criminal Justice Act program which
                       will examine the effectiveness of current policies and governance structures
                       and their impact on the appointment and compensation of counsel, quality of
                       representation, program administration, and adequacy of funding. The
                       Committee provided recommendations to the Judicial Resources Committee
                       on how policies adopted by the Judicial Conference regarding the use of
                       volunteers in the courts (see JCUS-SEP 14, pp. 22-24) could be tailored to
                       apply to federal defender organizations without adversely affecting the defense
                       function.


                                                             13
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 10, 2015

             COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
                      TRANSFERS TO THE UNITED STATES TAX COURT

                              Section 1631 of title 28, United States Code, authorizes a federal
                      court, as defined in 28 U.S.C. § 610, to cure a lack of subject matter
                      jurisdiction by transferring a pending action or appeal to another such federal
                      court that does have jurisdiction over the matter. Without this transfer option,
                      litigants who have timely filed claims in the wrong court may face a dismissal
                      of their action and may be time barred from refiling in the proper forum. The
                      United States Tax Court is not one of those courts identified in 28 U.S.C.
                      § 610 and therefore cases misfiled in other courts cannot be transferred to the
                      Tax Court under section 1631. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                      Judicial Conference agreed to support, in concept, a United States Tax Court
                      proposal to amend 28 U.S.C. § 1631 to authorize transfer to the Tax Court of
                      cases within its jurisdiction that are initially filed in the wrong forum.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it
                      considered regulatory reform legislation that would amend the Administrative
                      Procedure Act by adding numerous requirements to the agency rulemaking
                      process and changing the statutory rules governing judicial review of
                      administrative action. In addition, a representative of the Department of
                      Justice gave a presentation on recent executive action on immigration. The
                      Committee also engaged in a discussion of past initiatives and current efforts
                      to facilitate cooperation between the federal and state courts, including an
                      update on the activities of state-federal judicial councils.


             COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                      FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR JUDGES

                              In September 2003, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek a separate
                      financial disclosure statute for judges that would make the financial disclosure
                      reporting requirements for judicial officers more consistent with the narrowly
                      focused role of the judiciary and with judges’ recusal obligations under
                      28 U.S.C. § 455 (JCUS-SEP 03, pp. 24-25). Since these amendments were
                      proposed more than a decade ago, the judiciary has had an opportunity to

                                                             14
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 10, 2015

                       implement and refine the financial disclosure reporting and redaction
                       processes, and the Committee now believes that a separate financial disclosure
                       statute for judges is not necessary. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                       Judicial Conference agreed to rescind its September 2003 position to seek
                       legislation creating separate financial reporting requirements for judges.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported on the status of its
                       comprehensive assessment of the future needs of the electronic financial
                       disclosure report preparation and filing system, as well as initiatives to
                       improve compliance by delinquent filers and filers having difficulty with the
                       reporting requirements. The Committee also approved clarifications to the
                       filing instructions and other guidance documents. As of December 22, 2014,
                       for calendar year 2013, the Committee had received 4,446 financial disclosure
                       reports and certifications (out of a total of 4,482 required) including 1,307
                       annual reports from Supreme Court justices and Article III judges; 354 annual
                       reports from bankruptcy judges; 556 annual reports from magistrate judges;
                       1,809 annual reports from judicial employees; and 420 reports from nominee,
                       initial, and final filers.


               COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Information Technology reported that it received a
                       preliminary analysis and recommendations for an enterprise messaging system
                       from an ad hoc task force comprised of judiciary representatives and asked for
                       refined cost estimates, including migration options. It also reaffirmed its goal
                       of offering national hosting services at no cost to courts wanting to use them,
                       but noted that courts should not be compelled to use the services. Members
                       received updates on a number of key information technology initiatives and
                       discussed a proposed revision to the courtroom technologies formula. In
                       addition, the Committee referred to its security subcommittee concerns
                       regarding the “single sign-on” initiative and business needs regarding system
                       access for judicial interns and externs.




                                                             15
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 10, 2015

            COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 131
                      intercircuit assignments were undertaken by 92 Article III judges from July 1,
                      2014, to December 31, 2014. The Committee also reviewed and concurred
                      with two proposed intercircuit assignments of bankruptcy judges. The
                      Committee continued to disseminate to chief district judges information about
                      intercircuit assignments and aided courts requesting assistance by identifying
                      and obtaining judges willing to take assignments. The Committee also
                      reviewed the current intercircuit assignment profile of judges willing to
                      undertake intercircuit assignments for possible revisions before distributing
                      the 2014 biennial questionnaire to active and senior judges regarding their
                      willingness to serve on intercircuit assignments.


             COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                      involvement in rule of law and judicial reform activities throughout the world,
                      highlighting activities in Africa, Europe and Eurasia, Latin America and the
                      Caribbean, and East and South Asia. Briefing reports about international rule
                      of law activities were provided by the Department of State, the Department of
                      Justice, the United States Agency for International Development, the United
                      States Patent and Trademark Office, the Open World Program, the Federal
                      Judicial Center, the Administrative Office, and the International Association
                      of Court Administrators. The Committee also reported on hosting foreign
                      delegations of jurists and judicial personnel for briefings at the Administrative
                      Office.


             COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
                      JUDICIAL COMPENSATION

                               The Judicial Conference adopted a number of legislative positions over
                      the last two decades to address a crisis in judicial compensation resulting from
                      the denial to federal judges of many annual pay adjustments under the Ethics

                                                             16
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 10, 2015

                       Reform Act of 1989, Public Law No. 101-194. Due to recent decisions in
                       Beer v. United States, 696 F.3d 1174 (Fed. Cir. 2012) cert. denied, 133 S. Ct.
                       1997 (2013), and Barker v. United States, No. 12-826 (Fed. Cl. filed Nov. 30,
                       2012), judicial salaries have been adjusted to the level they would have been if
                       judges had received the pay adjustments under the Ethics Reform Act. In light
                       of this development, the Committee recommended that the following six
                       Judicial Conference legislative positions be rescinded, as their underlying
                       objectives have been achieved through non-legislative means:

                       a.       an immediate and substantial increase in judicial salaries (JCUS-
                                MAR 07, p. 4);

                       b.       a catch-up judicial salary increase equivalent to four previously denied
                                cost-of-living adjustments (JCUS-MAR 01, pp. 23-24);

                       c.       delinkage of judicial and congressional compensation (JCUS-MAR 97,
                                pp. 26, 41);

                       d.       automatic, annual cost-of-living adjustments to ensure that the real
                                compensation of Article III judges is not diminished (JCUS-MAR 94,
                                p. 20);

                       e.       repeal of Section 140 of Public Law No. 97-92 (JCUS-MAR 98,
                                pp. 17-18); and

                       f.       revitalization of a federal salary-fixing entity similar to the
                                former Commission on Executive, Legislative and Judicial Salaries
                                (popularly known as the Quadrennial Commission) (JCUS-MAR 98,
                                pp. 17-18).

                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       JUDGES’ TRAVEL

                                On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       adopted amendments to sections 220.10.20 and 220.30.10(c) of the Travel
                       Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy,
                       Vol. 19, Ch. 2, to more accurately describe judicial meetings for which travel
                       is authorized and may be reimbursed, as well as non-substantive amendments
                       to clarify several other provisions in the regulations.


                                                               17
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 10, 2015



                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it participated in
                      the second Judicial-Congressional Dialogue, an initiative that began earlier in
                      2014, with the goal of increasing understanding between the legislative and
                      judicial branches. The Committee also received an update on court
                      participation in the first national coordination of naturalization ceremonies on
                      Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, September 17, 2014, and received a
                      visit from Justice Anthony Kennedy, who discussed the Kennedy Learning
                      Center and the importance of civics education.


             COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that
                      it discussed and considered complaint-related matters under the Judicial
                      Conduct and Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-364. The Committee also
                      reviewed complaint-related orders issued in 2014 by chief judges and circuit
                      judicial councils. The Committee and its staff have continued to address
                      inquiries regarding the Act and the Rules for Judicial-Conduct and
                      Judicial-Disability Proceedings (2008) and to give other assistance as needed
                      to chief judges and circuit judicial councils. In addition, the Committee
                      discussed proposed amendments to the Rules, including public comments and
                      testimony provided at a public hearing on October 30, 2014.


             COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                      ARTICLE III JUDGESHIPS

                              Additional Judgeships. The Committee on Judicial Resources
                      considered requests and justifications for additional judgeships in the courts of
                      appeals and the district courts as part of its 2015 biennial survey of judgeship
                      needs. Based on its review, and after considering the views of the courts and
                      the circuit judicial councils, the Committee recommended that the Judicial
                      Conference request from Congress the addition of 5 permanent Article III
                      judgeships for the courts of appeals and the addition of 68 permanent
                      Article III judgeships and the conversion to permanent status of 9 existing

                                                             18
Judicial Conference of the United States                                         March 10, 2015

                       temporary Article III judgeships in the district courts. The Conference
                       adopted the Committee’s recommendations, agreeing to transmit the following
                       request to Congress (“P” denotes permanent; “T/P” denotes conversion of
                       temporary to permanent):

                                Courts of Appeals

                                Ninth Circuit                    5P

                                District Courts

                                New York-Eastern                 2P
                                New York-Southern                1P
                                New York-Western                 1P
                                Delaware                         1P
                                New Jersey                       2P
                                North Carolina-Western           1T/P
                                Texas-Eastern                    2P, 1T/P
                                Texas-Southern                   2P
                                Texas-Western                    4P
                                Tennessee-Middle                 1P
                                Indiana-Southern                 1P
                                Wisconsin-Western                1P
                                Minnesota                        1P
                                Missouri-Eastern                 1T/P
                                Arizona                          4P, 1T/P
                                California-Northern              5P
                                California-Eastern               6P
                                California-Central               13P, 1T/P
                                California-Southern              2P
                                Idaho                            1P
                                Nevada                           1P
                                Washington-Western               1P
                                Colorado                         2P
                                Kansas                           1T/P
                                New Mexico                       2P, 1T/P
                                Alabama-Northern                 1T/P
                                Florida-Northern                 1P
                                Florida-Middle                   6P
                                Florida-Southern                 3P, 1T/P
                                Georgia-Northern                 2P



                                                           19
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 10, 2015

                             Judgeship Vacancies. As part of the biennial survey of judgeship
                      needs the Committee also reviewed workloads in district and appellate courts
                      with low-weighted caseloads for the purpose of determining whether to
                      recommend to the President and Senate that an existing or future judgeship
                      vacancy not be filled. On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
                      agreed to recommend to the President and the Senate not filling the next
                      judgeship vacancy in the District of Wyoming, based on low-weighted
                      caseload in that district.


                      COURT LAW CLERKS

                              In March 2011, the Judicial Conference authorized a three-year test
                      program to evaluate whether providing additional law clerks in courts with
                      extremely heavy caseloads would expedite case resolution (JCUS-MAR 11,
                      p. 23). At the conclusion of the study, in March 2014, the Conference
                      evaluated the program and determined to extend the test for three years and
                      expand it to include additional courts (JCUS-MAR 14, p. 21). At this session,
                      the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference approve a
                      six-month extension of the second phase of the court law clerk test from
                      March 31, 2017, to September 30, 2017, to avoid difficulties that might arise
                      from concluding the program in the middle of a fiscal year and to ensure a
                      more representative sampling period for data collection. The Conference
                      adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                      PARALEGAL POSITION

                              The Judicial Conference establishes guidelines for the number and type
                      of chambers staff active judges may hire to assist in carrying out their
                      responsibilities. See Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 12, § 615.50. The
                      guidelines provide for both law clerks and secretaries, with an option for
                      judges to substitute a law clerk for a secretary position in many instances. The
                      Committee proposed amending the guidelines to provide a third staffing
                      option, a paralegal position, to give judges greater flexibility in meeting their
                      administrative and legal needs and to expand the pool of qualified candidates.
                      On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved a
                      job description and qualification standard for a paralegal position and
                      associated changes to the chambers staffing allocation.




                                                             20
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 10, 2015



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it agreed to form a
                       subcommittee to examine staffing resources for senior judges and that it
                       would ask members from other Judicial Conference committees to serve as
                       liaisons. The Committee declined to support a request from the Committee on
                       the Administration of the Bankruptcy System, which was initiated by the AO’s
                       Bankruptcy Clerks Advisory Group, to recommend that the Conference
                       reverse its decision of September 2012 to eliminate 162.1 full-time equivalent
                       information technology positions from the bankruptcy clerks’ offices in fiscal
                       year 2016 (JCUS-SEP 12, pp. 22-23). It also declined a request for an
                       exception to the four-year limit on term law clerk service to allow a term law
                       clerk to serve an additional year2 and a request for an exception to the policy
                       which allows one career law clerk at the JSP-14 grade level per chambers.
                       The Committee deferred until its December 2015 meeting consideration of
                       requests for an additional staff position for four chief judges who are in
                       districts that have four authorized judgeships, but have been recommended by
                       the Judicial Conference for a fifth judgeship.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL SECURITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it was updated on the
                       implementation of the Facility Access Card (FAC) Program, the judiciary’s
                       version of Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-12, which
                       established a mandatory, government-wide standard for a secure and reliable
                       form of identification (also known as “smart cards”) for federal employees and
                       contractors in the executive branch. In addition, the Committee and U.S.
                       Marshals Service (USMS) leadership discussed a range of security topics
                       including the status of the Home Intrusion Detection System (HIDS) program,
                       which provides judges with a residential home alarm system, and the USMS’s
                       efforts to upgrade and replace physical access control systems in court
                       facilities with outdated equipment.



              2
               A Judicial Conference member moved this information item to the discussion
              calendar; however, the objection was withdrawn on the Conference floor prior to
              discussion. No Conference action was required as the item was for information only.

                                                             21
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 10, 2015

             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
             OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                      CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                              After considering the recommendations of the Committee on the
                      Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of
                      the Administrative Office, and with the concurrence of the affected district
                      courts and circuit judicial councils, the Judicial Conference agreed—

                      a.       in the District of New Jersey, to discontinue the part-time magistrate
                               judge position at Atlantic City; and

                      b.       in the District of New Mexico, to—

                               (i)     authorize the court to fill the magistrate judge position vacancy
                                       in Albuquerque that the Judicial Conference, at its September
                                       2013 session, had not allowed to be filled (JCUS-SEP 13,
                                       p. 29);

                               (ii)    increase the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                                       Farmington from Level 7 ($7,759 per annum) to Level 5
                                       ($31,060 per annum), effective January 1, 2015; and

                               (iii)   decrease the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                                       Roswell from Level 3 ($62,128 per annum) to Level 4 ($46,595
                                       per annum), effective March 10, 2015.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                      reported that after full consideration of district-wide survey reports prepared
                      by the Administrative Office, it determined not to recommend any changes in
                      the number of authorized magistrate judge positions in nine district courts.
                      Pursuant to Judicial Conference policy regarding the review of magistrate
                      judge position vacancies (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 26), for the period between its
                      June 2014 and December 2014 meetings, the Committee approved, through its
                      chair, filling 25 magistrate judge position vacancies. At its December 2014
                      meeting, the full Committee considered and approved requests to fill two
                      magistrate judge position vacancies. The Committee also considered requests

                                                              22
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 10, 2015

                       from 14 courts for the recall or extension of recall of 17 retired magistrate
                       judges or staff for those judges and approved all requests, with the exception
                       of staff for one judge.


              COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
                       CIVIL RULES 4(M) AND 84

                                In September 2014, the Judicial Conference approved proposed
                       amendments to Civil Rules 4(m) and 84 as part of a larger rules package and
                       transmitted them, along with committee notes explaining their purpose and
                       intent, to the Supreme Court for consideration in accordance with the Rules
                       Enabling Act, 28 U.S.C. § 2071 et. seq. At this session, in response to a
                       request from the Supreme Court, the Committee on Rules of Practice and
                       Procedure recommended modest modifications to the committee notes
                       accompanying the proposed amendments to Rules 4(m) and 84, noting that
                       such modifications reflected the Committee’s intent. The Judicial Conference
                       adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                       approved for publication a proposed amendment to Rule 1001 of the Federal
                       Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure, the bankruptcy counterpart to Civil Rule 1.
                       Presently pending before the Supreme Court is a proposed amendment to Civil
                       Rule 1 that is intended to make clear that parties, as well as courts, have a
                       responsibility to achieve the just, speedy, and inexpensive resolution of every
                       action. The proposed amendment to Rule 1001 tracks the proposed amended
                       language of Civil Rule 1. The proposed amendment to Rule 1001 is expected
                       to be published for public comment in August 2015.


               COMMITTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
                       GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION FEASIBILITY STUDIES

                               Asset management planning (AMP) is an objective methodology used
                       by the judiciary to evaluate and place courthouse projects on the Five-Year
                       Courthouse Project Plan (JCUS-MAR 06, p. 25). As part of the AMP process

                                                             23
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 10, 2015

                      each proposed project is evaluated for urgency of need and an “Urgency
                      Evaluation Results List” is compiled to identify locations with the most urgent
                      space needs. Based on the urgency scores for potential courthouse
                      construction projects in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida and Huntsville, Alabama, the
                      Committee on Space and Facilities recommended that the Judicial Conference
                      approve General Services Administration (GSA) feasibility studies for those
                      projects contingent on the approval of the circuit judicial council. Projects
                      must have a completed GSA feasibility study prior to being placed on the
                      Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan. The Conference approved the
                      Committee’s recommendation.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that it was updated on
                      the status of the judiciary’s GSA Service Validation Initiative, which is
                      designed to improve the services that the judiciary receives from GSA. Five
                      subject matter groups, comprised of judiciary and GSA experts, will make
                      recommendations for the Committee to consider at its June 2015 meeting.
                      The Committee was also updated on the status of the judiciary’s space
                      reduction initiative and agreed that to the extent a circuit exceeds its pro-rata
                      share of the national three percent space reduction target by the end of fiscal
                      year 2018, any excess space released will be tracked and recognized by the
                      Committee and credited to that circuit’s overall reduction quota.


             FUNDING
                              All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                      funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                      the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                      establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                    Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                    Presiding Officer



                                                             24
