REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


September 13, 2016


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on September 13, 2016, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                     First Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Jeffrey R. Howard
                                 Judge Paul J. Barbadoro,
                                        District of New Hampshire

                     Second Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Robert A. Katzmann
                                 Judge William M. Skretny,
                                        Western District of New York

                     Third Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                 Chief Judge Leonard P. Stark,
                                        District of Delaware

                     Fourth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Roger L. Gregory
                                 Judge Robert J. Conrad, Jr.,
                                        Western District of North Carolina

                     Fifth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Carl E. Stewart
                                 Chief Judge Louis Guirola, Jr.,
                                        Southern District of Mississippi
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 13, 2016

                                Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ransey Guy Cole, Jr.
                                           Judge Paul Lewis Maloney,
                                                  Western District of Michigan

                                Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Diane P. Wood
                                           Chief Judge Michael J. Reagan,
                                                  Southern District of Illinois

                                Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Karen E. Schreier,
                                                  District of South Dakota

                                Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Sidney R. Thomas
                                           Judge Claudia Wilken,
                                                  Northern District of California

                                Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Timothy M. Tymkovich
                                           Judge Martha Vazquez,
                                                  District of New Mexico

                                Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ed Carnes
                                           Judge Federico A. Moreno,
                                                  Southern District of Florida

                                District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Merrick B. Garland
                                           Chief Judge Beryl A. Howell,
                                                  District of Columbia


                                                                2
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2016

                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Sharon Prost

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Timothy C. Stanceu

                               The following Judicial Conference committee chairs also attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Richard R. Clifton, Steven M. Colloton,
                       Allyson K. Duncan, Julia Smith Gibbons, Thomas M. Hardiman, Sandra S.
                       Ikuta; Anthony J. Scirica, D. Brooks Smith, and Jeffrey S. Sutton; and District
                       Judges John D. Bates, Catherine C. Blake, Gary A. Fenner, David R. Herndon,
                       Wm. Terrell Hodges, Irene M. Keeley, Royce C. Lamberth, Donald W.
                       Molloy, Lawrence L. Piersol, Danny C. Reeves, Richard Seeborg, Rodney W.
                       Sippel, Rebecca Beach Smith, and Lawrence F. Stengel. Attending as the
                       bankruptcy judge and magistrate judge observers, respectively, were Chief
                       Bankruptcy Judge Marcia Phillips Parsons and Magistrate Judge Kevin N.
                       Fox. Clarence Maddox, of the Sixth Circuit, represented the circuit
                       executives.

                               James C. Duff, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
                       States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill C. Sayenga,
                       Deputy Director; Sheryl L. Walter, General Counsel; Katherine H. Simon,
                       Secretariat Officer, and Helen G. Bornstein, Senior Attorney, Judicial
                       Conference Secretariat; Cordia A. Strom, Legislative Affairs Officer; and
                       David A. Sellers, Public Affairs Officer. District Judge Jeremy D. Fogel,
                       Director, and John S. Cooke, Deputy Director, Federal Judicial Center; and
                       Chief District Judge Patti B. Saris, Chair, and Kenneth P. Cohen, Staff
                       Director, United States Sentencing Commission, were in attendance at the
                       session of the Conference, as were Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to the Chief
                       Justice, and Ethan V. Torrey, Supreme Court Legal Counsel.

                               Deputy Attorney General Sally Quillian Yates addressed the
                       Conference on matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department
                       of Justice. Senators Patrick J. Leahy and Christopher Coons and
                       Representatives John Conyers, Jr., Darrell Issa, and Jerrold Nadler spoke on
                       matters pending in Congress of interest to the Conference.




                                                                3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2016


              REPORTS
                               Administrative Office Director James C. Duff reported to the Judicial
                       Conference on the judicial business of the courts and on matters relating to the
                       Administrative Office. Judge Jeremy D. Fogel spoke to the Conference about
                       Federal Judicial Center (FJC) programs and Chief Judge Patti B. Saris
                       reported on United States Sentencing Commission activities. Judge D. Brooks
                       Smith, Chair of the Committee on Space and Facilities, presented a special
                       report on space reduction efforts.


              EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
                       RESOLUTION

                               The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
                       Committee to adopt the following resolution recognizing the substantial
                       contributions made by Judicial Conference committee chairs whose terms of
                       service will end on September 30, 2016:

                                The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
                                appreciation, respect, and admiration the following judicial
                                officers:

                                           HONORABLE CATHERINE C. BLAKE
                                              Committee on Defender Services

                                           HONORABLE STEVEN M. COLLOTON
                                            Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules

                                             HONORABLE IRENE M. KEELEY
                                                Committee on Criminal Law

                                    HONORABLE LAWRENCE L. PIERSOL
                             Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability

                                       HONORABLE DANNY C. REEVES
                               Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System



                                                              4
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 13, 2016

                                           HONORABLE D. BROOKS SMITH
                                            Committee on Space and Facilities

                                         HONORABLE JEFFREY S. SUTTON
                                       Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure

                                Appointed as committee chairs by the Chief Justice of the
                                United States, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role
                                in the administration of the federal court system. These judges
                                served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference
                                committees while, at the same time, continuing to perform their
                                duties as judges in their own courts. They have set a standard
                                of skilled leadership and earned our deep respect and sincere
                                gratitude for their innumerable contributions. We acknowledge
                                with appreciation their commitment and dedicated service to
                                the Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.


                       MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                                The Executive Committee —

                       •        Approved costs related to the 2016 and 2017 Ninth Circuit judicial
                                conferences, pursuant to § 930(a)(2) of the Judicial Conference
                                regulations on meeting planning and administration, Guide to
                                Judiciary Policy, Vol. 19, Ch. 9.

                       •        Received an update from the Administrative Office on efforts to
                                enhance the judiciary’s information technology (IT) security and
                                reiterated its strong support for making cybersecurity a funding
                                priority.

                       •        Pending congressional action on the judiciary’s appropriations for
                                fiscal year (FY) 2017, approved FY 2017 interim financial
                                plans for the Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Court
                                Security, and Fees of Jurors and Commissioners appropriations
                                accounts, and endorsed a strategy for distributing allotments to court
                                units.

                       •        Referred a request related to the applicability of the judiciary’s codes
                                of conduct to the performance by judges or judiciary employees of


                                                                5
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2016

                                legal services during military reserve duty to the Committee on Codes
                                of Conduct, which has issued several advisory opinions on this issue,
                                and asked it to consider, in consultation with the Committee on
                                Judicial Resources and the Committee on the Judicial Branch, whether
                                any amendments to the codes of conduct or previous interpretations of
                                the codes may be warranted in light of the issues raised in the request.

                       •        Agreed to communicate to the Committee on the Budget and the
                                Committee on Court Administration and Case Management its concern
                                that the judiciary may be approaching a point where law book funding
                                is insufficient to provide the resources that some judges deem
                                necessary to do their work.

                       •        Expressed the urgent need for implementation of enhanced IT security
                                measures for all judiciary entities to protect IT systems and networks
                                within the Third Branch, including the Defender Services program.
                                While recognizing the unique concerns expressed by the Defender
                                Services program stemming from defenders’ ethical obligations to
                                their clients, the Committee noted the need for uniform IT security
                                standards throughout the Branch.


              COMMITTEE ON AUDITS AND
              ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE ACCOUNTABILITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                       reported that it was briefed by independent audit firms on the status and
                       results of several types of audits performed for the judiciary, including:
                       cyclical audits of courts and federal public defender organizations;
                       performance audits of Administrative Office procurement, contracts
                       management, and property management functions; annual audits of
                       community defender organization grantees; and audits of Chapter 7 and 13
                       bankruptcy trustees and debtors in Alabama and North Carolina, which are
                       served by the bankruptcy administrator program. The Committee also
                       received a detailed briefing from staff on the anticipated results of financial
                       audits of the judiciary’s appropriations for the Salaries and Expenses and
                       Defender Services accounts, the Federal Judicial Center, and the
                       Administrative Office. This briefing described corrective actions completed
                       and in progress, as well as Administrative Office mechanisms to track, report,

                                                               6
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2016

                       and monitor the status of corrective actions. The Committee also discussed
                       internal control program developments and forthcoming updates to the
                       cyclical audit program for courts and federal public defender organizations.


              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
              OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                       CONTINUING NEED FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                               In accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(3), the Judicial Conference
                       conducts a comprehensive review of all judicial districts every other year to
                       assess the continuing need for authorized bankruptcy judgeships. By
                       December 31 of each even-numbered year, the Judicial Conference reports to
                       Congress its findings and any recommendations for the elimination of an
                       authorized bankruptcy judgeship position that can be eliminated when a
                       vacancy exists by reason of resignation, retirement, removal, or death. On
                       recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy
                       System, which relied on the results of the 2016 continuing need survey, the
                       Conference agreed to take the following actions:

                       a.       Recommend to Congress that no bankruptcy judgeship be statutorily
                                eliminated; and

                       b.       Advise the appropriate circuit judicial councils with respect to the
                                districts of Alaska, California-Central, California-Eastern,
                                California-Northern, California-Southern, Illinois-Central,
                                Iowa-Northern, Iowa-Southern, Kansas, Maine, Massachusetts, New
                                York-Eastern, New York-Southern, New York-Western, North
                                Carolina-Middle, Ohio-Northern, Ohio-Southern, Oklahoma-Northern,
                                Oklahoma-Western, Oregon, Pennsylvania-Eastern, and South Dakota,
                                to consider not filling vacancies that currently exist or may occur
                                because of resignation, retirement, removal, or death, until there is a
                                demonstrated need to do so.


                       MULTI-DISTRICT DESIGNATION
                       OF A BANKRUPTCY JUDGE

                               Under 28 U.S.C. § 152(d), a bankruptcy judge may be designated to
                       serve in any district adjacent to or near the district for which the judge was

                                                               7
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2016

                       appointed “[w]ith the approval of the Judicial Conference and of each of the
                       judicial councils involved....” The Committee noted that designating a
                       bankruptcy judge to serve in multiple districts that need judicial assistance but
                       not a full-time resident judgeship would be a cost-effective way of allocating
                       judicial resources. In order to assist circuits with the process for obtaining
                       Conference approval of a multi-district designation, the Committee
                       recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, Guidelines for the
                       Multi-District Designation of a Bankruptcy Judge, and delegated to the
                       Bankruptcy Committee authority to make non-substantive, technical, and
                       conforming changes to the Guidelines, as needed.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                       reported that it is monitoring the judgeship vacancy pilot project, which was
                       approved by the Judicial Conference in September 2014 (JCUS-SEP 14, p. 7).
                       Two judges were appointed in districts that otherwise would have left the
                       judgeships vacant and then loaned via intercircuit assignment to districts with
                       immediate needs for additional bankruptcy judgeships. The Committee has
                       also worked to seek bankruptcy courts to participate in its horizontal
                       consolidation pilot, which was approved by the Judicial Conference in March
                       2016 (JCUS-MAR 16, p. 8).


              COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
                       FISCAL YEAR 2018 BUDGET REQUEST

                               After considering the FY 2018 budget requests of the program
                       committees, the Budget Committee recommended to the Judicial Conference a
                       request of $6,942.2 million in discretionary appropriations, which is
                       3.9 percent above assumed discretionary appropriations for FY 2017 but
                       $44.9 million below the funding levels requested by the program committees.
                       The Judicial Conference approved the Budget Committee’s budget request for
                       FY 2018, subject to amendments necessary as a result of (a) new legislation,




                                                               8
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2016

                       (b) actions of the Judicial Conference, or (c) any other reason the Executive
                       Committee considers necessary and appropriate.1


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Budget Committee reported that it discussed the status of the
                       FY 2017 appropriations cycle and its joint congressional outreach efforts with
                       the Committee on the Judicial Branch. The Budget Committee also expressed
                       support for ongoing cost-containment efforts and discussed the challenges
                       facing the judiciary with regard to enhancing cybersecurity and replacing
                       aging physical access control systems and how those efforts are being funded.


              COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in March 2016, the Committee received 30 new
                       written inquiries and issued 27 written advisory responses. During this period,
                       the average response time for requests was 15 days. In addition, the
                       Committee chair responded to 33 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                       members responded to 134 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                       responded to 876 informal inquiries, for a total of 1043 informal inquiries.


              COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
              AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                        CIVIL JUSTICE REFORM ACT REPORTS

                                In September 2009, the Judicial Conference approved making all
                        Civil Justice Reform Act (CJRA) reports created after September 30, 2009
                        available free of charge on the judiciary’s public website, uscourts.gov


              1
               Subsequent to the Conference session, the Executive Committee approved an adjustment to
              the FY 2018 budget request to add $10 million for emergency repairs to the Thurgood
              Marshall Federal Judiciary Building. With this addition, the FY 2018 request is $6,952.2
              million which is 4.1 percent above the FY 2017 assumed appropriation.

                                                               9
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2016

                        (JCUS-SEP 09, p. 12). CJRA reports created before that date remained
                        available only on PACER for a fee. At this session, noting that the pre-2009
                        reports are accessed by a limited number of PACER users and require the
                        expenditure of judiciary resources to maintain, the Committee on the Court
                        Administration and Case Management recommended that the Conference
                        make all CJRA reports available free of charge on uscourts.gov. The
                        Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                        ELECTRONIC PUBLIC ACCESS FEE EXEMPTION

                                 The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                        recommended that the Judicial Conference amend Item 8 of the Electronic
                        Public Access Fee Schedule, effective April 1, 2017, to allow Chapter 13
                        bankruptcy trustees to download quarterly, free of charge, a list of the trustee’s
                        cases from the PACER Case Locator. The Committee noted that this would
                        facilitate the trustees’ compliance with annual case reconciliation
                        requirements and relieve clerks’ offices of work they do to assist trustees in
                        compiling the necessary information. The Conference adopted the
                        Committee’s recommendation.


                        MISCELLANEOUS FEE SCHEDULES

                                Inflationary Fee Increases. The Judicial Conference prescribes
                        miscellaneous fees for the courts of appeals, district courts, United States
                        Court of Federal Claims, bankruptcy courts, and Judicial Panel on
                        Multidistrict Litigation, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1913, 1914, 1926, 1930, and
                        1932, respectively. On recommendation of the Court Administration and Case
                        Management Committee, the Conference raised many of these fees to account
                        for inflation, as set forth below, effective December 1, 2016. The last time
                        miscellaneous fees were increased for inflation was in September 2011.

                                           Court of Appeals Miscellaneous Fee Schedule

                        Item                                          Current Fee     New Fee
                        2. Record Search                              $30             $31

                        5. Audio Recording                             $30            $31

                        6. Record Reproduction                         $83            $86


                                                               10
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2016

                        13. Attorney Admission Fee                    $176          $181
                            Duplicate Certificate of Admission        $18           $19
                            or Certificate of Good Standing

                                             District Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule

                        Item                                          Current Fee   New Fee
                        1. Filing Document                            $46           $47
                           Unrelated to a Case or Proceeding

                        2. Record Search                              $30           $31

                        3. Exemplification                            $21           $22

                        5. Audio Recording                            $30           $31

                        9. Misdemeanor Appeal                         $37           $38

                        10. Attorney Admission Fee                    $176          $181
                            Duplicate Certificate of Admission        $18           $19
                            or Certificate of Good Standing

                        13. Cuban LIBERTAD Act Filing                 $6,355        $6,548

                                           Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule

                        Item                                          Current Fee   New Fee
                        2. Exemplification                            $21           $22

                        3. Audio Recording                            $30           $31

                        4. Amended Schedules                          $30           $31

                        5. Record Search                              $30           $31

                        7. Filing Document                            $46           $47
                           Unrelated to a Case or Proceeding

                        19. Filing Specific Motions                   $176          $181




                                                                11
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2016

                                      United States Court of Federal Claims Fee Schedule

                        Item                                          Current Fee    New Fee
                        4. Attorney Admission Fee                     $176           $181
                           Duplicate Certificate of Admission         $18            $19
                           or Certificate of Good Standing

                        5. Receipt of Monthly Listing of              $22            $23
                           Court Orders and Opinions

                        8. Record Search                              $30            $31

                        9. Audio Recording                            $30            $31

                        10. Filing/Indexing Document                  $46            $47
                            in Case for which a Filing
                            Fee has not been Paid

                                    Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation Fee Schedule

                        Item                                          Current Fee    New Fee
                        1. Record Search                              $30            $31

                               Registry Funds Fee Structure. The Committee on Court
                        Administration and Case Management recommended amendments to the
                        District and Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedules relating to the
                        fees for handling registry funds in the custody of the court that are managed
                        through the judiciary’s Court Registry Investment System (CRIS). The
                        amendments are intended to simplify the fees and more closely align them
                        with the costs of operating CRIS. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                        Judicial Conference approved amending Item 12 of the District Court
                        Miscellaneous Fee Schedule and Item 17 of the Bankruptcy Court
                        Miscellaneous Fee Schedule, effective December 1, 2016, to read as follows:

                                For handling registry funds deposited with and held by the court,
                                the clerk shall assess a charge from interest earnings, in
                                accordance with the detailed fee schedule issued by the Director
                                of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.

                                For management of registry funds invested through the Court
                                Registry Investment System, a fee at an annual rate of 10 basis
                                points of assets on deposit shall be assessed from interest
                                earnings, excluding registry funds from disputed ownership

                                                                12
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2016

                                interpleader cases deposited under 28 U.S.C. § 1335 and held in
                                a Court Registry Investment System Disputed Ownership Fund.

                                For management of funds deposited under 28 U.S.C. § 1335 and
                                invested in a Disputed Ownership Fund through the Court
                                Registry Investment System, a fee at an annual rate of 20 basis
                                points of assets on deposit shall be assessed from interest
                                earnings.

                                The Director of the Administrative Office has the authority to
                                waive these fees for cause.


                        PRO SE PRISONER E-FILING PILOT PROGRAM

                                To increase the efficiency of processing federal pro se prisoner cases
                        and reduce the associated costs, the Court Administration and Case
                        Management Committee recommended that the Conference approve a
                        one-year joint pilot project with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) for a prisoner
                        e-filing program using digital kiosks in BOP facilities. The Committee also
                        recommended that the Conference authorize the Committee, working in
                        conjunction with the Administrative Office, to develop metrics to measure the
                        effectiveness of the program and to issue and amend guidelines to assist pilot
                        participants. The pilot would involve no more than 25 courts and would be
                        limited to civil case filings. The Conference approved the Committee’s
                        recommendations.


                        JUROR QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAIRE

                                 On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
                        Case Management, the Judicial Conference approved a complete revision to
                        both the style and substance of the Juror Qualification Questionnaire to make
                        it clearer and easier for jurors to understand. The questionnaire has been
                        modified to, among other things, present the questions and corresponding
                        instructions in side-by-side columns; move an explanatory paragraph from the
                        back to the front of the questionnaire; simplify language; and allow for local
                        variation in the identification of political subdivisions in answers to questions
                        about a juror’s residence.




                                                               13
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2016


                        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                 The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                        reported that it reviewed an interim report from its cost-containment
                        subcommittee (which includes representation from six Judicial Conference
                        committees) on the subcommittee’s efforts to develop and evaluate
                        organizational models that could contain costs. The Committee also approved
                        a memorandum encouraging courts to consider adopting guidelines aimed at
                        preventing court documents from being used to identify government
                        cooperators. In addition, the Committee agreed to pursue two new initiatives,
                        one to update guidance on the preservation of judges’ papers to include
                        guidance for electronic documents, and the other to review how juror
                        utilization statistics are collected and reported.


              COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                       JUDGMENT FORMS IN CRIMINAL CASES

                                On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial
                       Conference approved revisions to the judgment forms in criminal cases
                       concerning the imposition of standard conditions of post-conviction
                       supervision. The forms were revised to include (a) new standard conditions
                       approved by the United States Sentencing Commission; (b) an explanation of
                       the relationships between the standard conditions and (i) the purposes of
                       sentencing pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3553 and (ii) the statutory duties of
                       probation officers pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3603 to monitor and improve the
                       conduct of persons under their supervision; and (c) a new section for a person
                       on supervision to acknowledge receipt of and instruction on his or her
                       conditions of supervision.


                       OVERVIEW OF PROBATION AND SUPERVISED RELEASE
                       CONDITIONS

                               On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial
                       Conference approved release of a document entitled “Overview of Probation
                       and Supervised Release Conditions” as a resource for defendants, the courts,
                       and other criminal justice practitioners regarding the recommendation,
                       imposition, and implementation of conditions of supervision. It will assist with


                                                             14
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2016

                       providing notice to defendants of conditions of supervision that may be
                       imposed; help to ensure that the conditions are clear, legally sound,
                       appropriately tailored, and address the relevant statutory factors; and aid
                       appellate courts when reviewing the conditions in individual cases.


                       PRESENTENCE INVESTIGATION REPORT

                                The Committee on Criminal Law recommended that the Conference
                       approve two amendments to the Presentence Investigation Report (Monograph
                       107), Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 8, Pt. D, concerning (a) when to disclose
                       special conditions and (b) the timing for making a recommendation of special
                       conditions. The first amendment would provide that a probation officer should
                       attach any recommended special conditions and the reasons for the
                       recommendations when the presentence report is initially disclosed and when
                       the final report is disclosed, unless such disclosures are limited by the court, to
                       give parties an opportunity to object and present arguments on why certain
                       conditions should or should not be imposed. The second amendment provides
                       examples of when it may be appropriate for probation officers to defer
                       recommending special conditions. The Conference approved the Committee’s
                       recommendation.


                       SUPERVISION OF FEDERAL OFFENDERS

                                On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference approved an
                       amendment to the Supervision of Federal Offenders (Monograph 109), Guide
                       to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 8, Pt. E, concerning the privilege against
                       self-incrimination during interviews between probation officers and offenders.
                       The amendment provides guidance to probation officers that if a defendant
                       refuses to answer a specific question during an interview on the grounds that it
                       is incriminating, the officer should not compel the defendant to answer. If
                       there is uncertainty about whether the invocation of the privilege against
                       self-incrimination is valid, the probation officer should refer the matter to the
                       court to make this determination.


                       GUIDELINES FOR SECOND CHANCE ACT AND JUDICIAL
                       ADMINISTRATION AND TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS ACT

                                The Second Chance Act of 2007 (SCA), Pub. L. No. 110-199, and the
                       Judicial Administration and Technical Amendments Act of 2008 (JATA),

                                                               15
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2016

                       Pub. L. No. 110-406, authorize the judiciary to contract for, or expend funds
                       directly on, certain reentry services for defendants and offenders reentering the
                       community. On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the
                       Conference adopted a new Part L to Volume 8 of the Guide to Judiciary
                       Policy, setting forth judiciary policies related the SCA and JATA as well as
                       guidance for probation and pretrial services officers related to procurement of
                       and expenditure of funds on such services.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it received an update on
                       the Administrative Office’s continuing efforts to monitor outcomes in
                       post-conviction supervision cases. Those outcomes show improvements that
                       coincide with the considerable investments in evidence-based practices made
                       by the federal probation and pretrial services system. The Committee was also
                       provided with the final report of the FJC’s study of a federal reentry court
                       program model policy as implemented in five participating districts. The
                       Committee agreed to release the report to the courts while it continued to
                       consider what recommendations it may offer to the Judicial Conference. To
                       that end, the Committee formed a subcommittee that will develop possible
                       recommendations for the Judicial Conference’s consideration.


              COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
                       MODEL PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTATION AND ADMINISTRATION
                       OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT

                               The Criminal Justice Act (CJA) directs each district court to place in
                       operation a plan for furnishing defense representation for any person financially
                       unable to retain an attorney. 18 U.S.C. § 3006A(a). Currently, there are two
                       model plans included in the CJA Guidelines, Guide to Judiciary Policy,
                       Vol. 7A, Ch. 2, to provide courts with guidance in crafting a local plan, the
                       Model Criminal Justice Act Plan, at Appendix 2A and the Model Plan for the
                       Composition, Administration and Management of the CJA Panel, at
                       Appendix 2B. These plans were adopted in 1990 and have not been
                       comprehensively revised since. Noting that CJA policies have evolved in the
                       intervening years to address changes in program needs, legal precedent, and
                       acceptable standards of practice for the legal profession, the Committee on
                       Defender Services recommended that the Judicial Conference adopt a new
                       model plan that consolidates the information from the two existing model plans

                                                              16
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2016

                       and incorporates updated policies pertaining to the CJA program. Adopting the
                       Committee’s recommendation, the Conference approved the 2016 Model Plan
                       for Implementation and Administration of the Criminal Justice Act to
                       supersede the existing model plans.


                       PERIODIC REVIEW OF CJA DISTRICT PLANS

                               As noted above, 28 U.S.C. § 3006A(a) requires each district court to
                       adopt a plan for furnishing defense representation for persons financially
                       unable to retain an attorney. To ensure that these plans remain up-to-date, on
                       recommendation of the Committee on Defender Services, the Judicial
                       Conference amended the Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 7A, Ch. 2,
                       § 210.10.10 by adding subsection (e) to read as follows:

                                 Each district court should review, and amend as appropriate,
                                 the CJA Plan every five years to ensure compliance with the
                                 CJA Guidelines and other relevant Judicial Conference
                                 policies and legal authorities.


                       TRIBAL LAW AND ORDER REAUTHORIZATION
                       AND AMENDMENTS ACT

                                 The proposed Tribal Law and Order Reauthorization and Amendments
                       Act of 2016, S. 2920, 114th Congress (as introduced on May 11, 2016) would
                       reauthorize several provisions of the Tribal Law and Order Act of 2010 (Pub.
                       L. No. 111-211), as well as address public safety in Indian Country through a
                       number of requirements for data sharing, collaboration, and reporting. The
                       proposed legislation would also require federal public defenders to appoint
                       tribal liaisons, and authorize and encourage them to appoint special assistant
                       federal defenders in districts that include Indian Country to mirror existing
                       positions in U.S. attorneys’ offices. Pursuant to the proposed legislation, the
                       liaisons would undertake duties to promote the administration of justice in
                       Indian Country, including coordinating the defense of federal crimes,
                       coordinating with tribal public defenders in cases with concurrent jurisdiction,
                       providing technical assistance and training, and coordinating with the
                       Administrative Office. The special assistant federal defenders would represent
                       Indian defendants charged with federal crimes in Indian Country and provide
                       technical and other assistance to tribal governments and court systems.



                                                              17
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2016

                                The Committee on Defender Services noted that federal defenders
                       often represent clients from Indian Country based on charges previously
                       brought in Tribal Courts and that requiring federal defender involvement in the
                       administration of tribal justice could place conflicting demands on federal
                       defender organizations and potentially create ethical issues. Accordingly, on
                       the recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to
                       inform Congress that while it recognizes the need for increased defense
                       representation services in Indian Country, legal training to support the right to
                       effective counsel in Indian Country, and funding to support these functions, it
                       opposes Section 109 of the Tribal Law and Order Reauthorization and
                       Amendments Act of 2016 (S. 2920, as introduced on May 11, 2016), or similar
                       legislation, that would create tribal liaisons and special assistant federal
                       defenders, or any requirement for individual federal defender offices to assist
                       with the administration of tribal justice, as this creates possible conflicts in
                       their representational work involving cases arising from Indian Country.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Defender Services reported that it met with the Ad
                       Hoc Committee to Review the Criminal Justice Act Program and received a
                       status update on the comprehensive, impartial review of the CJA program
                       currently underway. The final report is expected to be completed in Spring
                       2017. The Committee also met with Deputy Attorney General Sally Quillian
                       Yates and discussed issues of mutual interest and collaboration, as well as
                       Department of Justice policies and practices that have a significant impact on
                       Defender Services program costs. The Committee received an update on the
                       status of the implementation of eVoucher as a national electronic CJA panel
                       management and voucher processing system, recognized the efforts made to
                       deploy the system nationally, and reaffirmed its position that receiving data
                       from the eVoucher system remains a high priority for the Defender Services
                       program.


              COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
                       ARTICLE I IMMIGRATION COURT

                                The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction was asked to consider a
                       draft legislative proposal to create an Article I Immigration Court consisting of
                       an appellate division and trial-level courts that would be administered by the
                       Administrative Office. The proposed court would be created by transferring

                                                              18
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2016

                       the adjudicatory responsibilities currently performed by the Executive Office
                       for Immigration Review in the Department of Justice to the judiciary, including
                       functions of the Board of Immigration Appeals.

                                The Judicial Conference has a long-standing position opposing, with
                       limited exceptions, specialized courts in the judiciary (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 82;
                       JCUS-SEP 86, p. 60; JCUS-SEP 62, p. 54). With regard to an earlier
                       legislative proposal to create an Article I Immigration Court, the Conference
                       took no position on the merits of creating such a court, but stated that if
                       Congress determined that there is a need for a separate Immigration Court,
                       “consistent with its previously enunciated recommendations on the creation of
                       a Social Security Court, or a Court of Veterans Appeals, under Article I of the
                       Constitution...the court be created within the Executive Branch of
                       Government” (JCUS-SEP 82, pp. 63-64). Consistent with these positions, and
                       noting specific concerns regarding the draft proposal, including whether the
                       judiciary had resources available to handle the high volume of immigration
                       cases, what effect removing Attorney General discretion over the adjudication
                       of immigration cases would have on the adjudication process, and possible
                       constitutional and administrative concerns, the Committee recommended that
                       the Conference reaffirm its long-standing position that if Congress determines
                       there is a need to create an Article I Immigration Court, such court be
                       established in the executive branch, and further, oppose placement of an
                       Article I Immigration Court in the federal judiciary or the administration of an
                       Article I Immigration Court by the federal judiciary. The Conference adopted
                       the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it continued
                       its discussion of legislation that would make changes in the manner in which
                       courts review claims that non-diverse defendants have been fraudulently joined
                       for the purpose of defeating diversity jurisdiction. The Committee also
                       reviewed legislation that would reverse judicial doctrines that currently provide
                       deference to certain decisions of administrative agencies. The Committee
                       received an update on the progress of a project to update the 1997 Manual for
                       Cooperation Between State and Federal Courts, engaged in a roundtable
                       discussion of ways to enhance communication between the federal judiciary
                       and state courts, and received a report on the Civil Justice Initiative sponsored
                       by the Conference of Chief Justices and the National Center for State Courts.




                                                              19
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2016

              COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that the
                       Administrative Office’s comprehensive assessment of the future needs for the
                       electronic financial disclosure report preparation and filing system has been
                       completed and that software currently being utilized by the government was
                       selected and will be customized for the judiciary. The Committee continued its
                       comprehensive review of the financial disclosure regulations. It clarified the
                       filing instructions regarding the deadline for employees filing initial reports,
                       and it analyzed, and requested additional research about, the instructions for
                       reporting property held in a business or trade.

                               As of June 6, 2016, for calendar year 2015, the Committee had received
                       3,256 financial disclosure reports and certifications (out of a total of 4,027
                       required to be filed) from nominee, initial, annual and final filers; and, for
                       calendar year 2014, the Committee had received 4,411 financial disclosure
                       reports and certifications (out of a total of 4,419 required to be filed) from
                       nominee, initial, annual, and final filers.


               COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                       LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

                               Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612 and on recommendation of the Committee
                       on Information Technology, the Judicial Conference approved the fiscal year
                       2017 update to the Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the
                       Federal Judiciary. Funds for the judiciary’s information technology program
                       will be spent in accordance with this plan.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Information Technology reported that it
                       recommended additional funding be sought in FY 2017 and beyond for
                       ongoing cybersecurity risk mitigation initiatives and to implement additional
                       programs, tools, services, and staffing to safeguard the judiciary’s data and
                       systems. The Committee also endorsed language clarifying that parties
                       identified in security policies are responsible for developing and implementing


                                                             20
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2016

                       procedures, rather than for the outcomes of the application of those procedures;
                       strongly supported the use of a proposed scorecard as a mandatory information
                       technology security self-assessment tool; and, recognizing the cost of
                       upgrading existing internet connectivity, asked that judges and court staff be
                       reminded of the costs associated with accessing streaming audio and video sites
                       over the DCN and requested that further analysis of streaming be conducted
                       following this reminder.


               COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

                       JUDGE SHARING PILOT PROGRAM

                               The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments recommended that the
                       Conference approve a voluntary judge sharing pilot program that would assist
                       courts with high weighted caseloads in obtaining long-term assistance through
                       intracircuit assignments from judges in courts with low weighted caseloads.
                       Judges in the lending court who agreed to participate through an intracircuit
                       assignment would take a specified number of civil cases directly from the draw
                       of the borrowing court and would handle those cases from filing to conclusion.
                       Assignment of cases would be random, and participation in the pilot would not
                       affect a court’s requests for additional judgeship resources. For aspects of the
                       arrangement not specified by pilot program requirements, a memorandum of
                       understanding between the chief district judges of the borrowing and lending
                       courts, approved by the chief circuit judge, would govern. The Judicial
                       Conference adopted the recommendation of the Committee and approved the
                       creation of a judge sharing pilot program in up to five circuits for three years,
                       to be administered by the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that
                       105 intercircuit assignments were undertaken by 76 Article III judges from
                       January 1, 2016, to June 30, 2016. During this time, the Committee continued
                       to disseminate information about intercircuit assignments and aided courts
                       requesting assistance by identifying and obtaining judges willing to take
                       assignments. The Committee also reviewed and concurred with two proposed
                       intercircuit assignments of bankruptcy judges.




                                                              21
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2016

              COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported about its
                       involvement in rule of law and judicial reform throughout the world,
                       highlighting activities in Africa, Europe and Eurasia, Latin America, the
                       Middle East, and East and South Asia. Briefing reports about international rule
                       of law activities were provided by the Department of State, the Department of
                       Justice, the United States Agency for International Development, the
                       Department of Commerce, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the
                       Open World Leadership Center at the Library of Congress, the United Nations
                       Counterterrorism Executive Directorate, the Federal Judicial Center, the
                       Administrative Office, the Defenders Services Office, and U.S. court
                       administrators. The Committee also reported on hosting foreign delegations of
                       jurists and judicial personnel for briefings at the Administrative Office.


              COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
                       REPORTING OF NON-CASE RELATED TRAVEL

                               In March 1999, the Judicial Conference adopted a policy requiring all
                       federal judges to report annually their non-case related professional travel
                       (Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol.
                       19, Ch. 2, § 270; JCUS-MAR 99, pp. 19-20). At this session, on
                       recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the Judicial
                       Conference approved changing the name of the policy from “Reporting of
                       Non-Case Related Travel,” to “Reporting of Governance and Education
                       Travel,” to more accurately describe the nature and purpose of the travel that is
                       reportable.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it participated in
                       the fourth Judicial-Congressional Dialogue, an initiative that began in 2014
                       with the goal of increasing understanding between the legislative and judicial
                       branches. Associate Justices Stephen Breyer and Samuel Alito participated in a
                       panel entitled “Reflections on Statutory Interpretation and Branch Relations.”
                       Opening remarks were provided by Representative Bob Goodlatte, Chairman,


                                                              22
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2016

                       House Judiciary Committee. Three senators and eleven representatives, all
                       members of the Senate and House Judiciary Committees, attended, including
                       Senator Chuck Grassley, Chairman, Senate Judiciary Committee.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that it
                       discussed and considered complaint-related matters under the Judicial Conduct
                       and Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-364 (Act), and the Rules for
                       Judicial-Conduct and Judicial-Disability Proceedings (Rules), including two
                       petitions for review of circuit judicial council orders. In addition, the
                       Committee approved changes to the judiciary’s public judicial conduct and
                       disability website related to the September 2015 amendments to the Rules. The
                       Committee and its staff have continued to address inquiries regarding the Act
                       and the Rules, and to give other assistance as needed to chief judges and circuit
                       judicial councils.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                       SENIOR JUDGE STAFFING RESOURCES

                                In October 2014, as part of the judiciary’s continuing cost-containment
                       initiative, the Administrative Office’s advisory councils and peer advisory
                       groups identified staffing for senior judges among the areas that warranted
                       further analysis. In response, the Committee on Judicial Resources established
                       an ad hoc subcommittee on senior judge staffing resources to oversee the
                       analysis, and the Director of the Administrative Office established a Senior
                       Judges Working Group to provide additional assistance and input.

                               A major goal of the effort was the identification of common statistical
                       measures in an attempt to bring greater standardization and rigor to the senior
                       judge staff certification process. After reviewing historical data and each
                       circuit’s standards for certifying staff for senior judges, the ad hoc
                       subcommittee, in consultation with the working group, concluded that national
                       guidelines would negatively impact existing practices and processes, but agreed
                       that circuits should regularly review their certification process. To facilitate
                       that review, the subcommittee recommended that the Committee ask the


                                                              23
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2016

                       Conference to make available the working group’s Report on Senior Judge
                       Staffing Certification and encourage its use as a resource for circuit judicial
                       councils in certifying chambers staff for senior judges and for circuit chief
                       judges and circuit executives in assessing and evaluating staffing needs for
                       senior judges. The Report contains recommendations on establishing a robust
                       and transparent process for senior judge staffing allocation. The Conference
                       adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       JSP QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR UNIT EXECUTIVES
                       AND SECOND-IN-COMMAND POSITIONS

                                Four Judicial Salary Plan (JSP) unit executive and second-in-command
                       positions, (a) circuit librarian, (b) chief probation/pretrial services officer,
                       (c) chief deputy (appellate, district, and bankruptcy courts), and (d) deputy
                       chief (probation/pretrial services officer), have time-in-grade or equivalent
                       experience requirements. In order to be eligible for promotion to the next
                       higher grade, employees in these positions must have 52 weeks of experience at
                       or equivalent to the next lower grade. These requirements are not mandated for
                       other executive-level JSP positions and put internal candidates at a
                       disadvantage for pay-setting purposes as compared to external candidates. To
                       rectify these inequities and give courts greater workforce management
                       flexibility, the Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference
                       approved, eliminating the time-in-grade or equivalent experience prerequisite
                       for all JSP unit executive and second-in-command positions upon qualification
                       and grade determination.


                       UPDATE TO PROBATION OFFICES STAFFING FORMULA

                               A new staffing formula for probation offices was recommended by the
                       Committee on Judicial Resources and approved by the Judicial Conference in
                       September 2015 that included a standard factor for all districts for the
                       preparation of guideline presentence reports (JCUS-SEP 15, p. 24). At the
                       time, the Committee noted that it intended to revisit that factor in the near
                       future and develop case weights that would reflect the complexity of these
                       reports. At this session, on recommendation of the Committee on Judicial
                       Resources, the Judicial Conference amended the portion of the staffing formula
                       for probation offices relating to the preparation of guideline presentence reports
                       by replacing the constant of 2.66 full-time equivalent (FTE) positions and an
                       additional 38.85 hours per guideline presentence report with a constant of 1.00
                       FTE position and weighted values based on the nature of the offenses of

                                                              24
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 September 13, 2016

                       conviction, occurrence of trial, number of counts of conviction, and number of
                       criminal events in a client’s history.


                       DEFENDER SERVICES NATIONAL PROJECTS POSITIONS

                                The judiciary’s Defender Services program includes national projects
                       that serve as shared operational expertise for federal judges, federal defender
                       organization staff, Criminal Justice Act panel attorneys, and the Administrative
                       Office by providing consultation, assistance, and training on specialized topics
                       critical to high quality representation for indigent federal criminal defendants.
                       To provide greater availability and access to these capabilities, on
                       recommendation from the Committee on Defender Services, the Committee on
                       Judicial Resources recommended that the Conference approve adding nine FTE
                       staff positions for the Defender Services national projects to be funded as soon
                       as fiscally possible, but no later than fiscal year 2018, as follows:

                       a.       one position (paralegal) for the National Litigation Support Team;

                       b.       three positions (attorney, investigator/mitigation specialist, paralegal)
                                for the Capital Resource Counsel Project;

                       c.       two positions (paralegal and research and writing specialist) for the
                                Federal Capital Appellate Resource Counsel Project;

                       d.       one position (investigator/mitigation specialist) for the Federal Capital
                                (§ 2255) Project; and

                       e.       two positions (infrastructure architect/engineer and project manager) for
                                the National Information Technology Operation and Applications
                                Development Project.

                       The Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                       CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT PANEL MANAGEMENT RESOURCES

                               Although in most districts the clerk of court performs a majority of
                       Criminal Justice Act (CJA) panel management work, many federal defender
                       offices (FDOs) also perform this work as a service to the court. The
                       Committee on Judicial Resources recommended that the Judicial Conference
                       approve the addition of 13.96 FTE positions to the currently approved FDO

                                                                25
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2016

                       staffing formulas for fiscal years 2017 and 2018 to be distributed to fifteen
                       designated FDOs to stabilize CJA panel management support. The Committee
                       noted that it will consider an update to the district clerks’ offices staffing
                       formula in June 2018 for use in fiscal year 2019, and the work measurement
                       study for that update will likely lead to a more equitable distribution of the CJA
                       management workload between the district clerks’ offices and FDOs. The
                       Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                       MITIGATION SPECIALIST POSITION

                               At the request of the Committee on Defender Services, the Committee
                       on Judicial Resources recommended that the Judicial Conference include a
                       position description for a non-capital mitigation specialist and a capital
                       mitigation specialist in the Defender Organization Classification System, the
                       personnel classification system for the judiciary’s Defender Services program.
                       Among other things, a mitigation specialist assists appointed CJA counsel in
                       investigating, analyzing, developing, and presenting any mitigation evidence
                       that exists in the life history of a client and gathers information to present a
                       more complete picture of the client throughout the court proceedings. The
                       Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it submitted a
                       FY 2018 budget request for programs under its jurisdiction to the Budget
                       Committee that was equivalent to a 3.0 percent increase over the FY 2017
                       baseline, which would result in 12,027 FTE positions for court support staff.
                       Subsequently, the Budget Committee adjusted the request to limit funding for
                       court support staffing to 11,845 FTE positions. The Judicial Resources
                       Committee declined a request for conversion of a Navajo staff court interpreter
                       position to a Spanish staff court interpreter position in the District of New
                       Mexico. The Committee also received an update on the schedule of delivery
                       dates for current and future work measurement studies, including the upcoming
                       district clerks’ offices work measurement study.




                                                              26
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2016

              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL SECURITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it was updated on the
                       status of the courthouse Physical Access Control Systems (PACS) program,
                       including the United States Marshals Service (USMS) development of a
                       national standard for PACS systems in federal courthouses and coordination of
                       a risk-based budget strategy for examining and prioritizing PACS replacements
                       and upgrades in federal judiciary facilities. The Committee also heard
                       presentations from Director L. Eric Patterson, Federal Protective Service, and
                       Acting Director David Harlow, USMS, regarding issues relevant to their
                       agencies’ respective roles in protecting court facilities. Finally, the Committee
                       discussed the status of the Home Intrusion Detection Systems (HIDS) program,
                       including the new national contract service provider, Securitas Electronic
                       Security, Inc., which assumed contractual duties from Diebold.


              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
              OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                       APPOINTMENT REGULATIONS

                                On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
                       Magistrate Judges System, the Judicial Conference amended its regulations
                       establishing standards and procedures for the appointment and reappointment
                       of United States magistrate judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 3, Ch. 4,
                       § 420, to (a) ensure that merit selection panel members have written notice of
                       the restriction against being considered for a magistrate judge position within
                       one year of concluding service on the panel; (b) require waivers from this
                       restriction to be requested by the chair of the merit selection panel; (c) clarify
                       that the restriction applies to members of merit selection panels for the
                       reappointment, as well as the appointment, of magistrates judges; (d) establish
                       criteria for the Committee’s consideration of a requested waiver; (e) require the
                       merit selection panel to indicate in its report to the court whether any of the
                       applicants were former merit selection panel members who had been granted a
                       waiver; (f) provide that a court may recommend more than five applicants if the
                       panel is recommending applicants for more than one magistrate judge position;
                       and (g) make stylistic changes.




                                                              27
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2016


                       RECALL REGULATIONS

                                Under the regulations governing the ad hoc and extended service recall
                       of retired magistrate judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 3, Ch. 11, § 1120,
                       and Ch. 12, § 1220, the Magistrate Judges Committee must approve any
                       request for staff for recalled magistrate judges and any request for funds for
                       recall of a retired magistrate judge that exceeds $10,000 in judicial salary,
                       Office of Personnel Management annuity reimbursement, travel and
                       subsistence (JCUS-SEP 12, p. 28). The regulations also set forth the criteria
                       the Committee should consider in deciding whether to approve such a request.
                       At this session, the Committee recommended that the Conference add two new
                       criteria for determining whether to approve funds for recalled magistrate judges
                       or their staff: the comparative need of the district judges for the assistance of
                       magistrate judges and the overall workload of the court; and the commitment
                       of the court to the effective utilization of magistrate judges. The Conference
                       adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                               After considering the recommendations of the Committee on the
                       Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the views of the
                       Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the
                       circuits, the Judicial Conference agreed to (a) authorize the conversion of the
                       part-time magistrate judge position at Williamsport in the Middle District of
                       Pennsylvania to a full-time magistrate judge position; and (b) redesignate the
                       location of the part-time magistrate judge position at Middletown to
                       Poughkeepsie in the Southern District of New York.


                       ACCELERATED FUNDING

                              On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to
                       designate for accelerated funding, effective April 1, 2017, the new full-time
                       magistrate judge position at Williamsport in the Middle District of
                       Pennsylvania.




                                                              28
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 13, 2016


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                       reported that it considered ten cyclical district-wide magistrate judge survey
                       reports prepared by the Administrative Office and determined not to
                       recommend any changes in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                       the magistrate judge positions in those district courts. Pursuant to Judicial
                       Conference policy regarding the review of magistrate judge position vacancies
                       (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 26), for the period between its December 2015 and June
                       2016 meetings, the Committee, through its chair, approved filling 12 full-time
                       magistrate judge position vacancies in 11 courts. At its June 2016 meeting, the
                       full Committee considered requests to fill two magistrate judge position
                       vacancies. The Committee approved one of the requests and the second
                       request was later withdrawn by the court. The Committee also considered and
                       approved requests from ten courts for the recall or extension of recall of
                       ten retired magistrate judges.


              COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
                       FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1001 (Scope
                       of Rules and Forms; Short Title), 1006 (Filing Fee), and 1015 (Consolidation
                       or Joint Administration of Cases Pending in Same Court), together with
                       Committee Notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference
                       approved the proposed amendments and agreed to transmit them to the
                       Supreme Court for consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted
                       by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with law.

                               The Committee also submitted to the Judicial Conference proposed
                       revisions to Bankruptcy Official Forms 20A (Notice of Motion or Objection)
                       and 20B (Notice of Objection to Claim) (renumbered as 420A and 420B) and
                       Official Form 410S2 (Notice of Postpetition Mortgage Fees, Expenses, and
                       Charges) and recommended that they take effect on December 1, 2016, and that
                       they govern all proceedings in bankruptcy cases thereafter commenced and,
                       insofar as just and practicable, all proceedings then pending. The Conference
                       adopted the Committee’s recommendation.



                                                             29
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2016


                       CIVIL LITIGATION PILOT PROJECTS

                                As part of an ongoing effort to reduce the cost and delay of federal civil
                       litigation, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference approve
                       two civil litigation pilot projects, each for a period of approximately three years
                       in at least three to five districts. The first project, the Mandatory Initial
                       Discovery Pilot Project, would test a system of mandatory initial discovery
                       requests to be adopted in each participating court by standing order. It would
                       apply to all civil cases except those exempted by Rule 26(a)(1)(B), patent cases
                       governed by a local rule, and cases transferred for consolidated administration
                       in the district by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. The second
                       project, the Expedited Procedures Pilot Project, would test the effectiveness of
                       strict court-wide application of practices that under current rules have proved
                       effective in reducing cost and delay. It would involve all cases in which
                       discovery and trial are possible. The pilot projects were developed in
                       consultation with the Committee on Court Administration and Case
                       Management and the Federal Judicial Center. The Committee also
                       recommended that the Conference delegate authority to the Committee on
                       Rules of Practice and Procedure to develop guidelines to implement the pilot
                       projects. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                       FEDERAL RULES OF EVIDENCE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Evidence Rules 803 (Exceptions
                       to the Rule Against Hearsay — Regardless of Whether the Declarant Is
                       Available as a Witness) and 902 (Evidence That Is Self-Authenticating),
                       together with Committee Notes explaining their purpose and intent. The
                       Conference approved the proposed amendments and agreed to transmit them to
                       the Supreme Court for consideration with a recommendation that they be
                       adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                       approved for publication for public comment proposed amendments to
                       Appellate Rules 8, 11, 25, 28.1, 29, 31, 39, 41, and Form 4; proposed
                       amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 3002.1, 3015, 5005, 8002, 8006, 8011, 8013,
                       8015, 8016, 8017, 8022, 8023, new Bankruptcy Rules 3015.1 and 8018.1 and

                                                               30
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2016
                       new Part VIII Appendix, and proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Official
                       Forms 309F, 417A, 417C, 425A, 425B, 425C, and 426; proposed amendments
                       to Civil Rules 5, 23, 62, and 65.1; and proposed amendments to Criminal Rules
                       12.4, 45, and 49. The proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rule 3015 and
                       proposed new Bankruptcy Rule 3015.1 were published for a comment period
                       from July 1, 2016 through October 3, 2016. The remaining rules and forms
                       were published for a comment period from August 12, 2016 through
                       February 15, 2017.


              COMMITTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
                       COURTHOUSE PROJECT PRIORITIES

                                The Federal Judiciary Courthouse Project Priorities (CPP) list was
                       adopted by the Judicial Conference in September 2015 as the new planning tool
                       for communicating the judiciary’s priorities for new courthouse construction.
                       Eleven projects were included on the FY 2017 CPP, which was the first time
                       the list was issued. At this session, the Committee on Space and Facilities
                       recommended that the Judicial Conference adopt a FY 2018 CPP. As eight of
                       the 11 projects on the FY 2017 plan were fully funded in the Consolidated
                       Appropriations Act of 2016, Pub. L. No. 114-113, only three projects remained
                       (Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Chattanooga, Tennessee; and Norfolk, Virginia)
                       and were carried forward to the proposed FY 2018 CPP. In addition, after
                       considering feasibility studies conducted by the General Services
                       Administration (GSA), three new projects (Huntsville, Alabama; Fort
                       Lauderdale, Florida; and Hato Rey, Puerto Rico) were recommended for
                       inclusion on the FY 2018 CPP. The Conference adopted the FY 2018 CPP as
                       recommended, with the projects listed in the following priority order:

                       a.       Part I: (1) Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; (2) Huntsville, Alabama; and
                                (3) Fort Lauderdale, Florida; and

                       b.       Part II: All remaining projects (Chattanooga, Tennessee; Hato Rey,
                                Puerto Rico; and Norfolk, Virginia) listed according to urgency
                                evaluation score.


                       FEASIBILITY STUDIES

                               Courthouse constructions projects must have a completed GSA
                       feasibility study prior to being placed on the CPP (JCUS-MAR 08, p. 26).

                                                              31
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2016
                       After considering the urgency evaluation scores for potential projects in
                       McAllen, Texas (Fifth Circuit), Bowling Green, Kentucky (Sixth Circuit), and
                       Green Bay, Wisconsin (Seventh Circuit) and ensuring that the relevant district
                       court and circuit judicial council for each project have given the necessary
                       approvals, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference approve
                       requests to GSA to perform feasibility studies for these locations. The
                       Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that it was updated on
                       the judiciary’s efforts to reduce by three percent its national footprint by the
                       end of FY 2018. As of June 2016, the judiciary had achieved two-thirds of this
                       goal. While this progress is commendable, all circuits must continue to focus
                       on space reduction efforts to ensure the national goal is met by the deadline.
                       The Committee was also updated on the status of the judiciary’s Capital
                       Security Program (CSP) and, in consultation with the Committee on Judicial
                       Security, approved four courthouses for CSP studies in FY 2016: Portland,
                       Maine; Detroit, Michigan; Augusta, Georgia; and Fort Wayne, Indiana.
                       Finally, the Committee discussed the status of the National Joint Training
                       Program that has begun to coordinate and implement the policy changes
                       resulting from the Service Validation Initiative, a collaborative effort on the
                       part of the GSA and the judiciary to improve the quality of the services GSA
                       provides to the courts.


              FUNDING
                               All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                       funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                       the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                       establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                    Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                    Presiding



                                                             32
