                                                                         9
            ~upr=      oroud of t~" ~Uitdl ~tate",.
                      ~a"'~ingron,    :!B. or.
                                                     June 16, 1925.

1'0 the Cil·cu·it Judges and
         the District Jndges of the United States:

  By direction of the Conference of the Seoior Circuit Judges,
held upon the call of the Chief Justice of the Unitecl States uoder
the Act of September 6, 1922, on June 9th and 10th last, I enclose
to you the resolutions adopted by the Conference.

  These include:
  1.   Recommendations to the District Judges, (a) as to the proper
and improper uses of the conspiracy statute in the prosecution of
offenses, (b) as to the proper exercise of the discretion of District
and Circuit Judges in allowing or denying bail to convicted de­
fendants pending appeals, to prevent appeals for delay on frivolous
gronnds.

  2. Recommendations to Congress for increases         In   the number
of Federal Judges.

  3. Plan adopted by the Conference with the approval of
the Attorney General for the expenditure or $165,000 already ap­
propriated for purchase of needed law books for the Circuit Courts
of Appeals, the District Courts, the Judges thereof and the
U. S. District Attorneys and for future appropriations requested
of Congress.
                    Sincerely yours,

                                   W>r. II. T_H'T,
                                          Chief J'ustice,
                                                   ChairmarL
W. W. MISCHLER,
   Sec"ctary of the Conference.
..   ~:
          10:




                       If!":l.
                       ~'




                ,. 

                                                                                        ,11 



                   Recommendations to the District Judges.

       A. We note thc prevalent use of conspiracy indictments for con­
    verting a joint misdemeanor into a felony; and we express our con­
    viction that both for this purpose and for the purpose,--or at least
    with the effect,--of bringing in much improper evidence, the con­
    spiracy statute is being much abused.
       Although in a particular casc there may be no preconcert of plan,
    cxcepting that necessarily inherent in merc joint action, it is difficult
    to excludc that situation from the established definitions of con­
    spi.'acy; yct the theory which permits us to call the aborted plan a
    greater Ofi'ClISC than thc completed crime supposes a serious and sub­
    stantially cOlltinued group scheme for cooperative law breaking,We
    observe so man~' conspiracy proseeutions which do not have this sub­
    stantial basc that we fear the creation of a general impression, very
    harmful to law enforcement, that this method of proseeution is used
    arbitrarily aud harshlr, Further the rules of evidence in eonspiracy
    cases make them most difficult to tr~" without prejudice to an innocent
    defendant.
       \Ye think it proper for us to bring this matte.' to the attentioll' of
    the District Judges, with the request that they present it to the Dis­
    trict Attorllcys, and for lIS to bring it also to the attention of the
    Attorney Gcnent\' with thc suggestion that he caU it to the attention
    of the District Attorneys, as in his judgment may be proper, and
    all to the eud that this form of indictment be hereafter not adopted
    hastily but olll,Y aftel' a careful conclusion that the public interest
    !iO rcquil'c,;, and to the end that transformations of a misdemeanor
    iuto a felony should not be thus a('colUplished unless the propriety
    thereof clearly appeal·s.
       \Ye also think propcr to briug the subject matter to the attention
    of COllgres~, that it may cOIl~ider whether any change of the law in
    this respcct is a{h'i~able,
       B. The right to bail before conyiction is secured by the Consti­
    tution to tho;;(' ('h3l'1!('c1 with "iollltion of the eriminal laws of the
l   Cuitcd !-\tatcs. The right to bail after conviction by a Court ~r a
    .Tmlge of first iu"tallee Or all intermedint,' court or II Judge thereof
\
    is uot .1 mattcr of constitutional right. Th(' Acts of Congress make
    pl'H\'i"ioli fot" allu\\"al\~C of bail aftel' cOIl\"ictioll by Courts and Judges
    to I'ch'a~{' till' "Oll\"It"tc,1 defl'udaut upon the excl'cise of theil' judieial
                                                                          ' . , ,- _. ,j.-_;)   ,:'r   _. -   ~_   ..   r"_




12 


   discretion, having in mind the purpo.se of the Federal Statutes not 

   to subject to punishment anyone until he has been finally adjudged 

   guilty in the court of last resort. But the judicial discretion of the 

   Fed('ral Courts and Judges in granting or withholding bail after oon­

   viction should be exercised to discourage review sought, not with 

   hope of new trial, but 011 frivolous grounds merely for delay. Ap­

   pli('ation for bail should be made to the trial judge in the first instance. 




         Recommeadatioaa to Coagress for lac::reasea in Judges.

      The business, civil and eriminal, in the Federal Courts continues
   to increase in volume. The Circuit in which we find the most dis­
   couraging congestion is the Second, that made up of New York, ,Con­
   necticut and Vermont. Some twelve Judges have been assigned from
   other circuits to sit in the Eastern, Southern and Western Districts
   of New York from time to time since July 1st, 1924, and some re­
   duction has been made in the arrears. But it is perfectly evident
   that no real remedy will be afforded except by increasing the number                                  [
 - of District Judges in that Circuit. After a full consideration of the                                 \
   information, statistical and other, we are convinced that the only
   solution is that one new District Judge be provided in the Western
   District of New York, three in the Southern District of New York,
   and one in the District of Connecticut, and that there be added one
   new Cireuit Judge, making five Circuit Judges for the Circuit Court
   of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
      We ren:ew our earnest recommendation of last year for a new Dis­
   trict Judge in the District of Maryland in the Fourth Circuit, as we
   do that for a new District Judge in Georgia in the Fifth Circuit. In
   Georgia the judicial force should be increased either by putting the
   new Judge in the Northern District, or preferably by establishing a
   third District in that State with the chief place of holding Court at
   :!IIacon.
       In the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Judge 1rIcKeehan was ap­
    pointed District Judge under the Omnibus Act of September, 1922,
    which directed that successors should not be appointed for Judges
    provided by that Act except by consent of Congress. Judge McKeehan
    died after a short but useful service. Congressional authority should
    be conferred to appoint his successor.
                                                                                                         c·
                                                                    -------'--"'-,-­
                                                                                   13
    c                                      5


                   Expenditure of Appropriations for Law Boob.


t          The Attorney General and Colonel Donovan. the assistant to the
        Attorney General. conferred with judicial conferenee as to the 'ex~
        penditnre of *165,000 appropriated in two acts of Congress for the
        purchase of law books for the use of the Circuit Courts of Appeals.
        for the District Courts. for the, Judges thereof and for the United
        States District Attorneys. Thereafter a eommittee of, the confer­
        ence made a report recommending a plan for the expenditure of
        existing an,d future appropriations for this purpose. The conferenee
        approved the report. It was submitted to the Attorney General.
        He approved it. It is as follows:
           The books committee thinks that the prineiples of distribution of
        the present consolidated fund among the judges and the distriet
        attQrneys should be:
           First, to equalize upon a minimum basis by bringing up to that
        basis all who are now short of it.               ~
           Seco1ld, to distribute the balauce of the fund in the order of actual
        relative needs and without judging' the need by the demand.
           We appreciate that it is most difficult for the Attorney General to
        carry ont this second principle and we believe that the senior circuit,

J       judges ha,'c the best facilities for comparative judgment as to these
        needs, each in his own' eircuit. To adjust all these things in our Con­
        ferencc would require an impracticably long session. We see nO
        method so feasible as to npportion among the cireuits any available
        fund and put the responsibility upon each senior cireuit judge for
        his own circuit. The basis of apportionment among the cireuits might
        be according to the number of districts or according to the numbe!>
        of judges. There are reasons for each. 'Ve recommend the latter
        method.
           The statute provides that the distribution of the $100,000 fund be
        subjeet to the approval of this Conference. We assume that the
        delegation by this Conference of part of this power to the senior
        cireuit judges for their respeeti~e cireuits would meet with the ap­
        proval of the Attorney General and that he \vill be quite \villing to
        adopt this method of placing the final responsibilitr. Accordingly,
        we propose the following action by this Conference:
           "The Judicial Conference recommends to thc Attorne:r General
        thnt the total $165.000 of the two book appropriations be un-ited for
        joint action in accordance \vith his reconlmendations submitted to
        ltS and that they be apportioned as follows:
                                          6. 


   "I. Let the sum of $-16.000 be re~el'ved and all()cated for circuit
courts of appcals libraries and be used in purchasing books for the
circuit eourts of appeals, ineluding uot to exeeed $3,000 for each of
the First, Fourth, Fifth. Sixth, Seventh and Ninth Oircuits, and in­
cluding not to exceed *15,000 for the Second Oircuit, and including
uot to ex('ccd *13,000 for the Eighth Circuit, of which last amount
not to excced $8,000 lllUY be us{'d in (·stablishing a law library at
Denver, CulOl'ado.
   "2, Let the SUIII thought br the Attorller General. the necessary
minimulll for IllUilltellulIl'e and l'llH'I'g'cueies for the fist'ul ,rear esti­
matcd hy him at abont *2:3.000. hI' l'l'Sel'\'ed in his hands to be ex­
pemled 11,\' him for those purpose-s,
   "3, Let each ci1'cuit amI district judge and distri!.'t attorney not
no\\" :mpplied be proddcti with olle complete set of V, S, Supreme
Court Reports and l<'edt'ral Reporter and Digcsts of each: eOlltillull­
tions of hoth Sel'il~" with lldnllll'e pamphlels to be illcludctl, ~tlso mi~·
ing volumes ill existing sets, YOIUIllCS amI contiuuations which have
bceu antI <Ire supplicd by OlTIeial distribution are 110t to,be duplicated
herelllllle1', The dreuit judges 111"1' to hm'e the official Suprcme COllrt
Reports with Rose's Notl'S nnd the Luwyer's Edition Digest: the dis­
triet jmlg'{\'; HlIlI attorlleys wlto ItJI\'C existing' official sets, to \I(\\'e those
set>; continucd lind al~o SlIpplClIlcllted with Rosc's Notes nnd the
LawFCl' 's Editioll Di;,!cst: ne\\" sct" of :-::llV1'cllle Oourt Reports to
distl'iet jmlgc,,; aud attorneys to be the TJu\\'yer's Edit ion with that
Digcst; )Iil:hi(' 's Euc~'dopedia lIla~' bt' snhstituted f01' the United
States Digest whcu requested, This pllragraph is subjeet to thc pro­
visothat if all,\' sClIior cirellit jllllg:c slUlU find that it is 110t incoll­
sistent with effieiellc), for allY distl'i('t jlld:,res 01' district attorneys to
make it joiut !lse of these reports aIHl digests and shall promptly
 certifr to the Atto1'IH'~' Gellel'a1 thut any set of repo1'ts and digests
 ealled for by this parag-r<lph eHn be disp(,llscd with, it shall t!t('\'l'lIPllll
 be omitted frolll the ('xct:lltil'lI of till' plnH,
    "4. That ('adl ('ii'l'lIit and di'itl'il't jnd~(' \lot now snpplit·d he Pl'!)­
 vided with:
    "One set of l'uIIIl'iled 8tulIltt's of UllG alld nIl supplcments or
 Federlll Statutes <l1l1lt'latl'd. ue\\' cditioll, with supplements as Ill' lIlay
 prcfer: oue set ~ht'par(l's r lIited !"tutes lItIll Pederlll Citat iOlls: one
 last edition of the .Tudil'ial ('olll' to bt:' sdt:'cted by him; Olle latps\
 editioH of it book I'll Ft:'tl e I'll I Prndice to he seleetcd br him: OIlC
 Jate;;t edition of a hook on llallkrnpt\':' to he :;elccted by him,
    ., This purag'l',lph js ,.nbjel't to the smile proviso as paragl'lIph :.I.
r                                                 7
                                                                                                ,15
               " ;). That ~ach district attorney not now snpplied be provided
          with statutes as specified in paragraph 4- and subject to the same
j'        proviso as in paragraph 3,
               "6, Let the foregoin~ requirements he ascertained and estimated
          as soon as posRible and before Au~ust 1, 1925. Then let the remainder
          of the total al)propriations he allocated to and reserved for the nine
          !"!ir('nits in proportion to the numrn-r of district judges in each.
               "7, I~ct the further distribution within each circuit of its allot­
          ment be upon the approval of the l';enior circuit judge according to
          his judgnumt of the relath'e needs of each judge and district attor­
          ney, 'Ve recommend to him that he first endeavor to provide a
          complcte outfit of Supr{'m{' Court Reports and Federal Reporters
          and Digests and Statntes lit the most eonvenient second place where
          each distri(·t jlldge holds ('ourt if it be unsupplied, and that he see
          that elwh distril,t judge is provided (taking into account what he
          alrl'lIdy has) with t{'xthooks amounting to $100 and ea!"!h district
          attorney with f{'xthooks amounting to *25.
                "8. All pllrehasl'S will be madc by thc Attorney General as is
           now ('ustomary lIpon requisition of the presiding judge of the circuit
           COllrt of lIPPI'IIls for the lihraries of those courts and upon the requisi­
           tions of the individual jud:r('s 1In<1 district attorneys for their needs,
           appl'o\'('d hy fhe ,.;enior {'ircnit jllclg{'.
                "9, fn onl{'l' thllt I'dati"e needs may be quiekly known, let each
           judge and distri!-'t' attorne~' forthwith semi in duplieate to the Attor­
           ney Genel'1I1 lind to hil> ";I'nior eil'cuit judge a list of all books now
           offi('ially pos.<;essed by him ami whcre lo!"!ated, spl'cifying volumes
           !I ('I'd I'd to (~olllplete sets .
                •'1 0." ~hould it he nl'l'essary to change this plan in any way be­
           fm'(' the Il!"!xt Confcr{,lI<'{' of the Senior Cirenit ,Judges, the Chief'
           .J list il'l' !lncI .f IIdj!1' ))I'nison of thl' Sixth CirC-llit are authorized to
           ":rrl'(' with the Attorney (~enl'l'al in making the ehangE!S."
                This complet{'s the prC's(,lIt plan,. 'rhe requisitions which have been
           made to the Attorney U<'lIl'ral and the senior circuit judges show
           thllt the IH'esl'ut IIpproprilltioll will be I'xhanste<1, leaving unsatisfied
           It ,"ery great part of thc I'xistiu:! impcl'lItive needs,           The eonferenee
           Iherl'fol'e I'arne:-tly rNlllests that th{' Il{'xt Con~!'css make a similar
     \
    =-pp\·illl Hppropriatioll of *200,000, IInd{'!' the same l'onditions attend­
            ill).! til<! $100,000 IIppropl'iutioll madl' hy the last Congress. and in
           I1ddition to the regular maint{'llallCe appropriations made for the De­
            pal'tllll'nt of .Jnstil'e IIllcI in m'd!"!r that tIl{' eontemplated work of
           supplying judges and judicial offieers, the reasonable minimum of
            th!"!ir imperati,'c needs for law books lIlay be eompl!"!ted,
