(   ,




        REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
               October 3-5, 1929




                                             .' 

                                                                                        35

  RECOMMENDATIONS OF CONFERENCE OF SENIOR CIRCUIT JUDGES

   The judicial conference, provided Cor in the act of Congress of
September 14, 1922 (42 Stat. 837, 838) was called and sat Cor throo
days, October 3,4, and 5,1929. The following judges were present in
response to the call:
   First circuit, Senior Circuit Judge George H. Bingham.
   Second circuit, Senior Circuit Judge :Martin T. l\lanton.
   Fourth circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Edmund T. Waddill, jr.
   Fifth circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Richard W. Walker.
   Sixth circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Arthur C. Denison.
   Seventh circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Samuel A1s!chuler.
   Eighth circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone.
   Tenth circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Robert E. Lewis.
   The regular senior circuit judge for the ninth circuit, Judge Gilbert,
was absent, and his place was taken by Circuit Judge Frank H.
Rudkin, the circuit judge next in seniority in that circuit.
   The regular senior circuit judge of the third circuit, Judge Duffing­
ton, was absent, and District Judge W. H. S. Thomson (retired} of
the western district of Pennsylvania, was summoned to take his place.
I t was determined by the conference that the following language of .
the act authorized Judge Thomson, upon summons by the Chief
Ju-stice, to represent the third circuit at this conference:
   If any senior circuit judge is unable to attend, the Chief Justice, or, in case of
hiB disability, the justice of the Suprcme Court calling said conference, may
summon any other circuit or district judge in the judicial circuit whose senior
circuit judge iB unable to attend, that ea.ch circuit may be adequately represented
at said conference. (Act of September 14, 1922, c. 306, sec. 2, 42 Stat. 838.)
  In accord with the regular order, each member of the conference
presented a report from the senior district judge of his circuit, with
the statisties and an explanation of the condition of each district in
his circuit.
  The Attorney General and his immediate assistants, the Solicitor
General Ilnd the Assistant Attorney General charged with the exam­
ination of statistics, were also present and made a report which was
the subject of examination by the conference.
   The statistics presented not only by the Attorney General, but also
by the members of the conference, indicate the percentage of inactive
cases as compared with the active cases on the entire dockets; that
in United States cases the percentage of inactive CIlSes on June 30,
1029, was 29.95 per cent ,as compared with 34 per cont on June 30,
1928; thnt the total number of classes of cases pending on June 30,
1929, was 149,033, as compared with 147,142 on June 30, 1928; that
.the total number of ch'il cases in which the United States was a party,
 were, at the close of June 30, 1928, 18,546, as compared with 21,185
 such cases pending at the close of June 30, 1929; that the total number
 of United States criminal Cl\Ses pending on June 30, 1929, was 31,500,
 as compared with 30,375 on June 30, 1928; that the total numbl'r of
 pril-ate suits (excl'pting bankruptcy CIlSI'S) pending June 30, 1929,
 WIlS 37,546, as compared with 39,351 pending on .Tune 30, 1928; that
 the total number of hankruptcy CRSl'S pending on .Jllnl' 30, 1929, was
 58,802, as compared with 58,870 on .Tunc 30, 1928. These statistics
 also showed that thl're was a la~e incrNlse in new IHlsinl'ss com­
 mencl'd in the Federal courts during the ·fiscal year 1929, as compared
 with the fiscal Yl'ar 1!l2S-there heing 8,034 more cases commenced
 in the Federal courts in the fiscal yenr 1929 than in the fiscal year
 1928 j and furthl'r that the lar<Jest single class of cases in the Federal
 courts is under the national prohibition act. In 1928 there were
 commenced 9,928 civil cases under the prohibition act and 55,729
 criminal cases under sllch act; in 1929 there were 11,237 civil and
 56,786 criminal cases brought in the Federal courts under the national
 prohibition act.
    Referring to the statistics above, and especially to the total number
 of civil cllSes in which the United States was a party during the year
 ending June 30, 1929, an examination discloses that this increas· is
 due, first, to a local situation on the Canadian border with reference
 to the condemnation of land by the Government for Government use,
 and, second, and chiefly, to the fact that the statute of limitations in
 which litigants against the United States are entitled to hring their
 suits against the United States in cases growing out of the war, is
 expmng. The other increases are due largely to the ordinary expan­
 sion of business in the Federal.courts. The judges report generally
 that the increase is what may be expected from the usual j urisdietion
 of the Federal courts and the growth of their litigation.
    There has been considerahle delay on the part of Congress in making
 provision for addi tional judges, especially in the N ew York districts;
 and while stich additions and appointments have now heen madc,
 there has not heen time enough to udjust and tal,e the hl'ncfit of the
 additional force. We arc still in II. transition pl'rioll and must await
 the fitting in of the new judicial force to the plnel-s whl're ndditions
 have been made.
    Coming now to deal with the individual drcuits, thl'l'c is lIothing
 of importancc in the way of cilangC's for the disposition of hllsinC'ss
 in the first eil'cuit, consisting of )'fainl', l';cw Hampshire, :\lassn­
 chusetts, and Rhode Islantl.
    In the se{'ond t'ircuit, the rceeutiy authol'ized increase of distl'ict
 ju<igC's in the southern district of New York, ill the castern Ilistrict
 of New York, and in the district of Connecticut has not yet furnishcd
         r   '':,:'   .... /;   "~.   ..'"   #0,   ,.'   ...... , .   " "'. _   •
                                                                                      .
                                                                                    1'... L'._
                                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                 *".:.,' '<1 ..:.,""14....'...... '~ ,..~. - k ' ' ' '   ,.. • •   ,,7, i   ..... _... f   .•




     opportunity for effective increase in the business disposed of, and the
      result in those districts must be awaited for the next year. There is a
      loss of one judge in the southern district of New York, growiDg out of

I     peculiar circumstances, and this ought not to be permitted to diminish
      the judicial force so much needed there. Judge Francis A. Wmslow
      of that district resigned on :\Iarch 31, H)29. His appointment was
      provided for in the act of Septemher 14, 1922, and this e.ctprevented
      the appointment, upon his death or resignation, of a successor except
      by a special act of Congress. This ought to be changed and a supple­
      mental act should be passed by the present Congress providing for
      the appointment of a judge to succeed Judge WinslO\v, and the judicial
      conference has adopted a recommendation to this elTcct.
         The district judges from other circuits than the second have con­
      tinued to furnish needed additional assistance in that circuit during
      the past year.                                            .
         The growth of business in the eastern district of New York is very
      large, and the additional judges recently added are very necessary.
      The additional judge in Connecticut will be used not only in clearing
      the Connecticut docket but in aiding in the disposition of arrears in
      the southern and eastern districts of New York.
         The increases in the northern and western districts of New York
      are what were anticipated, and there is no complaint of delay in the
      disposition of business in those districts.


I        The anticipated help in the third· circuit from the addition of
    . another district judge in the middle district of Pennsylvania has been
      defea.ted because of the delay in the confirmation of the candidate
      there nominated. The business in the eastern and western districts is
      going on satisfe.ctorily.
         The fourth circuit reports that the business is being satisfe.ctorily
      attended to and no request is made for additional force there.
         The same is true as to the force of district judges in the fifth circuit.
      There has heen a very substantial addition to the district strength in
      the Florida district by which there are now three district judges in
      the southern district of Florida and one in the northern district.
      There has been much delay, due to delays in filling vacancies and the
      illness and denth of a judge.
         In Mississippi thero have been two districts for a good many years,
      hilt only one judge. The last Uongrcss provided a second judge
      for Mississippi. The district judicial force in the fifth circuit is ample.
      But this is not true in the fifth circuit court of appeals. The fifth
      circuit is a large circuit, including Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Missis­
      sippi, Lollisiana (two districts), and Texas «(our districts). There
      have been, however, only three circuit judges to carry on the circuit
      court of appeals work, with 21 district courts. There clearly ought to
      be another circuit judge in that circuit. Last year there were in that
 circuit 271 cases to be disposed of by three judges. This is far too
 many.Tbis has led the council to recommend the provision of
 another circuit judge, wbich is certainly needed.
    The sixth circuit is bebind some 100 cases in its court of appeals,
 due to absence and illness of judges and to a very heavy docket,
 especially in patent cases. This is a most important circuit in the
  business center of the country, and therefore another circuit judge has
 been added. We may look for a much prompter disposition of busi­
.ness than has heretofore been possible under the circumstances. The
 sixth circuit court of appeals is the only one of the 10 circuits which
 is not abreast of its docket. All other circuit courts of appeals clean
 up every case each year.
    The condition of business in the seventh circuit calls for no com­
 ment or explanation.
    The effect of the changes by the division of the eighth circuit into
 two. circuits-the eighth and tenth-needs no further comment here,
 because we are merely awaiting results, except, however, in regard to
 the local situation in the Minnesota district, which calls· for special
 note. The increase in business there has been very great, ·and one of
 the judges, Judge Molyneaux, has broken down from overwork and
 is tmable to return to the bench. The cases disposed of in tbis district
 in 1927 were 1,223; in 1928, 2,285; in 1929,3,112. But the new cases
 have increased so rapidly that the docket is steadily falling bebind­
 the pending cases at the close of each of the above years being 1,611
 cases for 1927; 1,924 cases for 1928; and 2,382 cases for 1929. During
 the year 1927 there were 1,565 new cases filed; 2,598 were filed in
 1928; and 3,570 in 1929. The conference strongly recommends one
 additional judge now, and, if Judge Molyneaux continues unable to
 serve, that a second judge be added, or, at the very least, that pro­
 vision be made for a successor to Judge Molyneaux when he may
 retire.
    There is no change in the uinth circuit. But the condition of
 business in· the southern district of California, due to the rapid
 increase in the cases filed and presented for disposition is such that
 the council has recommended the appointment of another district
 jndge for that district, and the statistics seem to justify the reCOIll­
 mendation.
    A suggestion was made to the conference, at the instance of the
 Federal Trade Commission, concerning changes in the rult's of tho
 circuit courts of appeals for the filing aud printing of abstraets of
 records instead of full transcripts thereof. After full discussion, the
 suggestion was laid upon the table for lack of n satisfactory solution.
    A suggestion was presented by Judge Manton, at the instance of
 district judges.in the second circuit, to the effect that Equity Rule
 No. 13 be amended to allow substituted service of precess in so-cnll,'d
          , ! ...                            .~   . .,.                           ;   ..

                                                                                                         39
                padlock cases, but was, on motion of the Chief Justice, in view of the
     .~         possiblc constitutional questions involved, referred for consideration
j   ~/          to the Supreme Court of the United States.
                   A report was rend by Judge Manton embodying a tentative report'
t               of a committee appointed by three bar associations of New York City
                to consider the bankruptcy situation and recommend suggested
                needed reforms in this regard to Congress. The cpnference resolved
                that it was its desire to aid with its advice and assistance a speedy
                solution of the difficultics presented, and, without interfering with
                the existing inYcstigation, to add such useful suggestions as occur to
                the conference. To this end, Judges Manton, Alschuler, and Buffing­
                ton were constituted a committee to confer with other agencies now
                working for the same general purpose. The committee was directed
                to report its conclusions to this conference.
                  The conference passed the following resolution: .
                   Reports to this conference from district judges in many parts of the country,
                and our 011'11 knowledge as to the circuit courts of appeals, convince us that the
                efficiency of the ('ollrts in making prompt disposition of the business of the
                United States is suhstantlally impeded by the lack of sufficient and competent
                help in the offices of the clerk", marshals, and district attorneys, including assist­
                ant district nttorueys; and we are satisfied that there must be considerable
                additional e)l:pellditure in order to obtain and retain the necessary competent
1               assistallee. We learn that the Attorney General is submitting to the Bureau of
                the Budget four estimates for 1931-main and supplemental-which together
                we cOIl"ider 1I0t more thall reasonably sufficient to cover the ell:pellditures which
                ought to be made to bring these offices up to the proper standard. We therefore
                respectfully recolllmend to the Bureau of the Budget and to Congress that these
                main and supplemental estimates be approved and that these requested appro­
                pri!\tions be made, nnd also that corresponding provisioll8 be made Cor the
                remainder of the current year, so that the necessary improvement may not be
                delayed.
                   This is onc of the most important reforms needed to secure expe­
                dition, efficiency, and dispatch in all the Federal judiciary. On
                motion made, it was resoh'ed that the conference recommend that
                Congress proyide by law that thc administration of the clerks' offices
                of the circuit courts of nppeals be under the supervision of the senior
                circuit judge of (,lIch circuit; that the salaries and disbursements of the
                severnl clerks find their nssistants and necessa.ry disbursements be
                providcd for find pfiid under his supervision; that a budget therefor
                be prepnl'cd Ilnnunlly lind an appropriation be made by Congress.
                The Chief .Justice did not ,'ote on this resolution.
                   Thc conference rrl1ews its recommendation made last year that the
                postal rcguhltions be changed so as to permit the sending of necessary
                court records and books in one packnge from one place to nnother free
                through the mails without limitation of weight.
                   The conference also renews its recommendations made in its last
    £.          two finn unl reports for the ndoption of legislation to provide a law clerk
                                   ·   . .... ." "   ".-.               :...   _' - -        .' I' ....·• '...,




~r
 '-for each circuit judge, at a. salary not to exceed $3,000 per annum. 

    The necessity for the provision of su.ch law clerks continues forcefully 

    to impress itself upon the conference. 

       The conference suggests to the Congress the necessity for.legislation
    which will provide that all criminal cases, as soon as docketed in a cir­
    cuit court of appeals, shall be expedited automatically and as of course,
                                                                                                             1
    and assigned for each hearing not later than on the calendar at the ses­
    sion of the circuit court of appeals next after their docketing, wherever
    the regular sitting may be made and wherever such session may be
    held. Such legislation should provide, however, that the statute
    should in no case be enforced so as to prejudice the presentation of the
    C8.3e of the defendant-appellant or prevent n fair review.
       The conference greatly rejoices at the urgent demand by the public
    generally for more efficiency, more speed, Ilnd more certainty in the
    prosecution of the general criminal law, which has led to the appoint­
    ment by the President, and to the organizntion of, II. grent commis­
    sion for the discussion and adoption of new methods, and a gren.ter
    efficiency and dispatch in the consideration and prosecution of crime.
    The Federal system for the punishment of violations of the Federal
    criminal stntutes offers an opportunity to the Federal courts to lend in
    the matter of this reform. Congress has been engaged i.n the last few
    years in stiffening the prosecution of violntions of Federal criminal
    laws, n.nd in rendering more efficient the procedure in sllch cases.                (
    But the working out of these changes is necessaril,v slow, and we must              '­
    not look for too rapid improvement. Much remains to he done in
    this regard.
       Fo r the judicial conference.
                                              WM. H. TAFT, (}ltiej Justice.
       OCTOBER 6, J 929.




                                                                                             (
                                                                                              '­
