                                                                     47

i
           REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE. 

!

                        OCTOBER SESSION,   1931.


       The Judicial Conference provided Jor in the Act of Con­


I

     gress of September 14, 1922 (42 Stat. 837, 838; sec. 218,
     Title 28, U. S. Code) was called and sat for three days,
     October 1, 2 and 3, 1931. The following judges were
     present in response to the call of the Chief Justice:
       First Circuit, Senior Chcuit Judge George H. Bingham.
       Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Martin T. Manton.
       Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Joseph Buffington.
       Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker.
       Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Nathan P. Bryan.
       Si.'{th Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Arthur C. Denison.
       Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Samuel Alschuler.
       Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone.
       Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Curtis D. Wilbur.
       Tenth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Robert E. Lewis.
       The Solicitor General and Assistant Attorneys General
     were present.
       Condition of dockets in the Federal 'Courts.-General
     Statistics.-On behalf of the Attorney General, the Solici­
     tor General submitted to the Conference a report of the
     condition of the dockets of the federal courts for the fiscal
     year ending June 30, 1931, as compared with the fiscal year
     ending June 30,1930. Each Circuit Judge also presented to
     the Conference a detailed report, by districts, of the work
     of the courts in his circuit for the fiscal year 1931.
       From these tabulations it appears that tnere were pend­
     ing upon the dockets of the District Courts, at the close of
     the fiscal year 1931, 152,736 cases as compared with 155,730
     cases pending at the close of the previous fiscal year,-a
     decrease of about 3,000 cases--embracing civil cases, both
     governmental and private, criminal cases and bankruptcy
     cases.
r
    48 

                                          2

             The number of pending cases, as thus reported, is as
           follows:
                                                           1930      1931
           U. S. Civil cases ....................... .    21,320     21,642 

           Criminal cases ......................... .     35,849     27,893 

           Private suits ........................... .    37,151     36,776 

           Bankruptcy cases ....................... .     61,410     66,423 


                                                          155,730   152,736
              The increase in the number of bankruptcy cases, that
           is, about 5,000 cases, cannot be regarded (in view of what
           appears later in this report) as signifying a greatly in­
           creased pressure upon the courts. The most significant
           fact in the above statement is the decrease in criminal
           cases pending,-a decrease of nearly 8,000 cases. The
           decrease has occurred in 62 districts; there are 29 dis­
           tricts reporting an increase. There is little variance in
           the totals for the two years in the other classes of cases.
           The Attorney General reports that the reduction in the
           number of pending criminal cases and also, to some extent,
           in the private suits, indicates that considerable progress
           has been made in the past year in clearing the dockets and
           relieving congestion.
              The comparison of cases commenced during the fiscal
           year with those commenced during the previous year is
           as follows:
                                                            1930      1931
           U. S. Civil cases ........................ .    24,934    25,332 

           Criminal cases ......................... .      87,305    83,747 

           Private suits ........................... .     23,391    24,000 

           Bankruptcy cases ...................... .       62,845    65,335 


                                                          198,475   198,414
             The comparison in the number of cases terminated shows
           the following:
                                                            1930      1931
           U. S. Civil cases ........................ .    24,722    25,010 

           Criminal cases ..•......•................       82,609    91,701 

           Private suits .......................... .      23,743    24,375 

           Bankruptcy cases ..................•...•        60,548    60,322 


                                                          191,622   201,408
                                                   ,t, ...   ,.oi"




                                                                              49
                                  3

.(      There was an increase in cases brought under the N a­
     tional Prohibition Act as follows:
                                                 1930                1931
     Civil, commenced .......................   11,882               12,374
     Criminal, commenced ....................   56,992               57,405
        Of cases of this class there were terminated in 1930,
     12,938 civil cases and 52,706 criminal cases: and in 1931,
     12,103 civil cases and 61,521 criminal cases.
        Despite the reduction in the total number of cases pend­
     ing in the federal courts, congestion continues to be a major
     problem.
        Circuit Courts of Appeals.-It is gratifying to observe
     that no problem is presented so far as the Oircuit Oourts
     of Appeals are concerned. These appellate courts are well
     up with their work, and such exceptions as temporarily
     exist are not serious. The Ninth Oircuit has sustained sud­
     dim and grave losses in the deaths of Judges Gilbert, Diet­
     rich and Rudkin. Judge Gilbert had long been incapaci­
     tated, but Judges Dietrich and Rudkin were suddenly
     stricken in the midst of their most useful activity. A suc­
     cessor to Judge Dietrich has already been appointed, and
     on the appointment of a succesor to Judge Rudkin, and
     with the legislative amendment recommended by the Oon­
     ference for the appointment of a successor to Judge Gilbert,
     the Oircuit Oourt of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit will be
     provided with adequate judicial service. There is no need
     of additional Oircuit Judges in other Oircuits.
        District Courls.-Nor is the problem of undue congestion
     in the Federal District Oourts one that is general through­
     out the country. While the volume of business creates a
     pressure that is continuous and emcting, it is only in a
     comparatively few districts that the burden is excessive,
     or that additional judicial assistance is required. In some
     Districts there is a serious condition which demands relief.
     The Oonference considers it desirable that each Oircuit, so
     far as possible, should deal with its own needs, and that
     by appropriate assignments of District Judges it should
      be sought to equalize their work and thus promote prompt
                             4


administration. It is deemed undesirable that, except
where absolutely necessary, Judges should be called to
service outside their Circuit. This, however, appears to be
inevitable, unless the judicial force in certain Districts is
increased. After careful consideration of the problem of
congestion, and the need of additional Judges, the Con­
ference decided upon the following recommendations:
  Removal of restrictions in existing law as to appointment
of successors.-The first recommendation relates to the re­
moval of certain restrictions now imposed by statute on the
filling of vacancies which now exist or will arise. On this
subject the Conference, reaffirming the views expressed at
its session last year, adopted the following resolution:
   "By the Act of September 14, 1922 (sec. 3, Tit. 28, U. S.
Code) Congress created twenty additional district judge­
ships; but in the belief that the need was temporary and
litigations would decrease, it imposed the limitation that
vacancies therein should not be filled, without a further
special act. Experience has shown that the need was per­
manent, and in every instance (but one,-New Mexico)
where a vacancy has occurred, there has been no question
of the need of continuing the judgeship; but the time
involved in getting the necessary special act has caused
delay and congestion. There now remain of vacancies
that have occurred or will occur in these judgeships so
limited the following instances, in which the Conference
is of the opinion that provision should be made for the
appointment of successors, viz:
        2 in the District of Massachusetts;
        2 in the Southern District of New York;
        1 in the Eastern District of New York;
        1 in the Western District of Pennsylvania;
        1 in the Eastern District of Michigan;
        1 in the Eastern District of Missouri;
        1 in the Western District of Missouri;
        1 in the District of New Jersey;
        1 in the Northern District of Texas;
        1 in the Northern District of Ohio;
        1 in the Southern District of California;
        1 in the District of Arizona.
                                                                       51
                                    5

r­
\....      "In the same general situation, through the existence
        of a limitation upon filling a vacancy and the demonstrated
        permanent need that the vacancy, when occurring, or
        which has occurred, shall be filled, are a circuit judeship
        in the Ninth Circuit (Act of March 1, 1929, sec. 213b, Tit.
        28, U. S. Code), and a district judgeship in the Southern
        District of Iowa (Act of January 19, 1928, sec. 4(i), Tit.
        28, U. S. Code)-in both of which vacancies have occurred
        -and a district judgeship in the District of Minnesota
        (Act of March 2, 1925, sec. 4, Tit. 28, U. S. Code). The
        Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals will be left with only three
        judges, while it has had four for many years and will
        need four; and the districts of Minnesota and Southern
        Iowa cannot do without these judgeships.
           "Accordingly, in order that from time to time there be
        no interruption and delay, we request the Attorney Gen­
        eral to draft and urge the passage of legislation removing
        this limitation as to these specified judgeships and making
        them permanent."
           Provision for additional District Judges.-The Confer­
        ence was of the opinion, as it was last year, that the re­
        moval -of these limitations, and the appointment of suc­
        cessors where vacancies now exist or will hereafter occur,
        as above mentioned, will not give adequate relief. The
        Conference, after most careful consideration of the need
        for additional judges, recommends the enactment of legis­
         lation making provision for additional district judges as
         follows:
                2 additional district judges for the Southern Dis­
                  trict of New York;
                1 additional district judge for the Eastern District
                  of New York;
                1 additional district judge for the Northern Dis­
                  trict of Georgia;
                1 additional district judge for West Virginia;
                1 additional district judge for the Southern Dis­
                  trict of Texas;
                2 additional district judges for the Southern Dis­
                  trict of California;
                1 additional district judge for the Western District
  l               of Missouri.
                             6


    With respect to the situation in Missouri, the Confer­
ence, upon an examination of conditions there, is satisfied
that additional judicial service is needed and that an ad­
ditional district judge, available for service in both the
Eastern and Western Districts, would meet the exigency.
The Conference therefore recommends, as above stated,
an additional district judge for the Western District of
Missouri, with the understanding that he shall be subject
to assignment, under provisions of existing law, for such
service as may be necessary in the Eastern District of
Missouri.
     On consideration of the situation in Louisiana, the Con­
ference is satisfied that no additional judgeship is needed
in the Western District of Louisiana. The Conference is
further of the opinion that judicial service can be ade­
quately maintained in Louisiana by a combination of the
Eastern and Western Districts.
     The Conference is of the opinion that after providing
the additional judgeships above specified no further pro­
vision for additional judges should be made in existing
districts at this time.
     Assignments of District Judges.-The Conference has
had brought to its attention instances where the total
business in two adjacent districts would not create an
undue burden on two judges if it were equally divided,
but where the existing unequal division gives the heavy
district more than one judge can properly do. In our
judgment, this situation does not justify us in recom­
 mending an additional judge for the heavy district. The
 'l'emedy is for the Senior Circuit Judge to determine how
 much time during the year a judge of the lighter district
 can reasonably give to the heavy district, and then desig­
 nate him to duty therein accordingly. Such designation
 should not be for a few days, now and then, but for sub­
 stantial, continuous periods, so that calendars may be ar­
 ranged and disposed of; and should be pursuant to an
 adopted and announced policy of definitely fixed times and
 periods. Statutory terms in the lighter district present
 no necessary obstacle, for they can usually be post­
                                          7

            poned or rearranged. Such equalization of duty as be­
            tween judges is clearly contemplated by law, and reasonable
            cooperation in bringing it about will greatly promote the
            efficiency and the good repute of the federal judicial system.
            We approve this policy of designations, and we think its
            judicious and reasonably insistent application will do much
             to relieve instances of congestion. The same policy is
             applicable, though in less degree, to all districts in the
             Circuit, though not adjacent.
                It was also the sense of the Conference that provision
             should be made that in case any Senior Circuit Judge is dis­
             abled by illness from exercising any power given or duty
             imposed by the Judicial Code such power or duty shall be
             exercised by the next Circuit Judge in seniority, and the
             Conference recommends to the Attorney General the pro­
             posal of legislation acocrdingly.
                Questions as to CreatiOtt of New Districts and Changes
             in Existing Districts. Importance of Comprehensive Sur­
             vey.-The Conference pointed out last year that proposals
             had been made for the creation, not simply of additional
             judgeships, but of additional districts, which would involve
             the provision of the positions and facilities essential to the
             equipment of new districts. It seemed to the Conference
             that the time had come to consider comprehensively the
             organization of districts and to ascertain the best means of
             promoting the economical and effective administration of
             justice in the federal courts, whether by division of dis­
             tricts, consolidation of districts, or creation of new dis­
             tricts. For this purpose a most careful study is needed.
             Last year the Conference requested the Attorney General
             to make a survey, as exhaustive as he might find feasible
           . and with estimates of cost and efficiency, in order that the
             necessary information should be laid before the Confer­
             ence. The Attorney General has reported that, pursuant
             to this request, inquiries have been made, and a summary
             of these inquiries has been submitted to the Conference.
             It appears that the survey has not yet been completed and
             estimates relating to comparative costs have not been com­
11<'   •
~'
                                                                       ~   (




54 

                                    8


       piled. The matter is under the careful consideration of
       the Attorney General who intends at the next Conference
       to supplement his present progress report.
          Judicial Statistics.-The Conference at its last session
       took under consideration the possibility of improving the
       compilation of statistics of judicial work in the federal
       courts. Pursuant to the resolution then ~ adopted by the
       Conference, proposed forms were submitted for considera­
       tion. A further study of the subject has led to the con·
       clusion that, while some improvement in the present forms
       might be made, it would not go far enough unless there
       was put into operation, under continuous supervision, a
       thoroughgoing plan in most, if not all, of the districts.
       The information now obtainable through statistics is useful
       to the Senior Circuit Judge in making his report to the
       Conference, as, with his familiarity with conditions within
       his circuit, he is able to give the necessary interpretation
       of the figures presented. The tabulations, standing alone
       and without such 'an exposition, are of but slight service
       for the purpose of forming a judgment of the comparative
       work of the courts. The need is for such units of specifica­
       tion as will give an adequate view of the work of each court,
       for uniform methods in the keeping of statistics, so that
       there may be a basis for comparison, and an expert super­
       vision which will insure the maintenance of records in ac­
       cordance with the plan adopted.
          The National Commission on Law Observance and En­
       forcement, after considering reports upon the present de­
       fects in statistical methods and in the data compiled, has
       recommended that the compilation and publishing of sta­
       tistics of the federal administration of justice should be
       committed to one bureau in the Department of Justice to
       the end that uniform and adequate methods should be de­
       vised and that their prosecution should be competently
       supervised through the maintenance of a unified system.
       It is the sense of the Conference that there should be an
       improved organization of this sort in the Department of
       Justice in order that the objects sought by the tabulation
          _t·" .... ,   •      .,.-.   "...   ~'-   "'-   '.   .                             '-~'




                                                                                                    55
                                                                   9


                            of court statistics may measurably be attained. Meanwhile
                            the Conference must of necessity rely upon the interpreta­
                            tion by the Senior Circuit Judges of the data in relation
                            to judicial work as set forth in the reports of the respective
                            circuits.
                               Bankruptcy.-The Attorney General submitted to the


I
                            Conference a valuable Memorandum relating to the ad­
                            ministration of the bankruptcy law. This Memorandum
                            exhibits the results of an exhaustive investigation into the
                            whole question of bankruptcy law and practice, which has
                            been made by the Attorney General at the request of the
                            President. The work has been under the direction of the
                            Solicitor General. As a result, the Attorney General re­
                            ports:
                                   "(1) That the Bankruptcy Act has failed to aChieve
                                      its central purposes.
                                   "(2) That its administrative machinery is ineffi­
                                      cient and subject to exploitation.
                                   "(3) That without radical revision of the law no
      c                               substantial improvement can be accomplished."
                               In support of the statement of the Attorney General as
                            to the failure of the law to achieve its central purposes,
                            his Memorandum shows that the amount realized by gen­
                            eral creditors has ranged from 7.7% of the liabilities in
                            1923 to 7.4% in 1930. It appears from the records "of all
                            the cases closed in the fiscal year ending June 30, 1930­
                            cases which originated for the most part before the begin­
                            ning of the depression"-that in 65.44% there were no
                            assets above exemptions; in 82.24% there were assets of
                            less than $500; and in 95.80% the assets were less than
.11                         $5,000. A further analysis shows that, "in 1930, merchants
~                           and manufacturers constituted 21% of the bankrupts," and
                            that, of these, 24.56% had no assets above exemptions;
                            49.40% had assets less than $500; and 89.92% had assets
                            less than $5,000. It appears that 43,983 cases, "represent­
                            ing over 79% of the total bankruptcies in 1930", were "non­
                            mercantile bankruptcies", and that, of these, 27,929 were
                            cases of wage earners. From these and other facts, the At-
      c
56
                                 10 


     torney General concludes that the bankruptcy courts "have
     ceased to be important agencies for the realization, liquida­
     tion, and distribution of assets and are chiefly engaged in
     relieving from their debts vast numbers of debtors who ob­
     tain their discharges without making any provision for
     a partial payment of their creditors either out of property
     or earnings."
         The Attorney General has also found that "in practice,
     discharges are granted virtually for the asking and in most
     cases quite without regard to the conduct of the debtor or
     the equities of the case." It appears that during the two
     and one-half years beginning September 1, 1926 (after the
     amendments of 1926) and ending March 1, 1929, the clerks'
      reports show that 85,252 discharges were granted and 776
      were denied; and that in the cases closed during the fiscal
      year ending June 30, 1930, approximately 37,277 noncor­
      porate bankrupts were granted a discharge and in approxi­
      mately 319 cases of this class discharges were denied. In
      the case of merchants and manufacturers, it is stated that
      the percentage of discharges denied was .02% and that in
      cases of wage earners the percentage of denials was .004%.
      The Attorney General reports that in most cases applica­
      tions for discharge receive no consideration as "no one is
      under any duty to examine into the bankrupt's conduct
      and affairs," or "to oppose his discharge, however fraudu­
      lent he may have been". "In the absence of opposition
      the courts have no power and must grant the discharge out­
      right if no one opposes it"; and "If there is opposition the
      courts have no discretion in tempering the discharge action
      to fit the equities of each case."
         The Attorney General has also presented his views as to
       defects in the administrative processes in relation to
       referees, and the selection, personnel and compensation of
       trustees in bankruptcy_
         The Attorney General has accompanied his Memorandum
       with suggestions of measures to remedy the defects shown.
          The Conference appointed a committee to consider the
                                                                  57
                             11 

Memorandum and the proposals submitted by the Attorney
General, and the committee made the following report:
   "The Committee appointed by the Conference to con­
sider the general supervision of the bankruptcy administra­
tion in the district courts reports that it has noted with ap­
proval, the request of the President that the Attorney Gen­
eral underake an exhaustive investigation into the whole
question of bankruptcy law and practice, with the purpose
of proposing to Congress essential reforms.
   "The Attorney General has submitted to the Conference
proposed tentative amendments to the bankruptcy act and
has, through the Acting Attorney General, Solicitor Gen­
eral Thacher, presented the reasons therefor orally as well
as in printed memorandum. We have examined both with
a view of being advised wherein the present act, at this
time, has failed to achieve the purposes of its enactment
in ensuring a prompt and efficient realization and proper
distribution of the assets of insolvent debtors, as well as
granting to honest, but unfortunate, debtors a discharge
from their debts in cases where they should be relieved
and to deny a discharge where fraud and dishonesty are re­
vealed; also to visit appropriate punishment by imprison­
ment where the law requires. The able study and diligent
research of the administration in the past, under the bank­
ruptcy act, as made by the Attorney General discloses that
legislation is required to accomplish a more efficient ad­
ministration for the benefit of both creditors and the bank­
rupt.
   "We therefore advise the Conference that it recommend
to the Congress, through the Attorney General, the advis­
ability of legislation amending the present bankruptcy act
 as follows:
   " (a) By provisions necessary to make the discharge in
bankruptcy just and effective; to insure a thorough exami­
nation of the bankrupt, with due regard to the public in­
 terest involved; and to discourage fraud and waste.
   " (b) Measures to encourage prompt steps toward liqui­
 dation or settlements by insolvent debtors; in matters of
 composition; to obtain extensions of time for the bank­
 rupt to pay; relating to assignments for the benefit of credi­
                                                              ••   'f~{'
                    ~   ~ -   -",:




58
                                     12

     tors; to provide relief of wage earners from garnishments
     or attachments.
        "(c) Measures to promote the appointment of more
     efficient trustees, with sufficient provision for the voting
     representation of creditors; a more summary procedure
     for the administration of the estate of the bankrupt by the
     trustee, with due regard for simplified and expeditious pro­
     ceeding in filing schedules; creditors' meetings; sales; and
     dividends; provisions for agencies to coordinate the bank­
     ruptcy administration; and promote uniformity of practice
     without interference with judicial supervision; to regulate
     compensation of trustees; and the appointment of referees
     and consideration of the basis for compensation."
        This report of the committee was adopted by the Con­
     ference and the recommendations of the Conference are
     made accordingly.
        Probation.-The Conference adopted a resolution that
     the Senior Circuit Judges be requested to consider the
     administration of the Probation Law in their respective
     circuits with a view to its consideration by the next annual
     Judicial Conference.
        Grand Jury Proceedi,ngs.-The Conference adopted the
     following resolution:
       "District Judges call to our attention, and we otherwise
     observe, the delay and expense caused by the necessity of
     both a preliminary examination and a presentment to the
     grand jury in cases where the accused intends to plead
     guilty. We recommend to the Attorney General a study
     of the matter, and, if thought practicable, that he propose
     to Congress legislation permitting in such cases a waiver
     of grand jury proceedings."
       Official Stenographers.-It was represented to the Con­
     ference that in some districts considerable inconvenience
     had been caused by the lack of official stenographers. The
     Conference expressed its views upon this subject as fol.
     lows:
       "Resolved that it is the sense of the Conference that pro­
     vision should be made for the appointment by the Judge of
                                                                                      '5~

                                                   13
      r.:
      \..,:;          official stenographers in the District Courts in those dis­
                      tricts where such appointment is deemed advisable by the
                      Judge of the District, and that we request the Attorney
                      General to give consideration to the matter with a view of
                      securing the necessary legislative authority for the appoint­
                      ment and compensation of such stenographers."
                         Amendments to Rules.-The Conference discussed
                      various proposals that had been made for the amendment
                      of the Equity and Admiralty Rules and General Orders in
                      Bankruptcy promulgated by the Supreme Court, and these
                      proposals were submitted for the consideration of that
                      Court.
                         Circuit Conferences.-At its last session the Conference
                      expressed its opinion that it was feasible under existing
                      laws to hold conferences of the federal judges within each
                      circuit, and its belief that such conferences to deal with
                      local problems of administration would prove to be of no
                      little value. During the past year such conferences have
                      been held in several circuits and have demonstrated their
                      usefulness. It is the sense of the Conference that such
                      conferences should, if possible, be held annually.
                         Cooperation of Bench and Bar.-In seeking to improve
                      the administration of justice in the federal courts, it is
                      the opinion of the Conference that there should be active
                      cooperation of .the Bench and Bar. The Conference has
                      noted with interest the recommendation to this end that
                      has been made by the Committee of the Conference of Bar
                      Association Delegates which was approved by that Con­
                      ference at its recent meeting.
                         It is deemed desirable that in each district a committee
                      of representative members of the Bar should be appointed
                      either by the District Judge ox: Judges, or by Bar Asso­
                      ciations, to confer with the District Judge or Judges. There
                      will thus be afforded an opportunity for judges and lawyers
                      not only to consider together whatever defects in adminis­
                      tration may be said to exist within the respeotive districts,
. j
                      but proposals for remedies may be brought to the test of
               ,. ,
       (   ,
60 

                                   14 


       the most expert judgment. Inconsiderate proposals will
       thus be promptly discarded and a.ttention centered upon
       such as may appear to have merit. Inquiries into the ad­
       ministration of justice should be appropriately localized
       and generalities give place to a definite examination of
       particular problems. In many instances, it is not unlikely
       that needed improvements may be obtained by simple ar­
       rangements suited to local conditions. Whenever ques­
       tions arise which relate to the administration of justice in
       its more general aspects, opportunity may be afforded for
       bringing such questions, through representatives of these
       district committees, to the attention of the annual confer­
       ence of federal judges within the circuit. Again, as a re­
       sult of such studies in circuit conferences, proposals may
       be prepared and thoroughly matured for the consideration
       of the annual Judicial Conference of the Senior Circuit
       Judges.
          The Committee of the Conference of Bar Association
       Delegates has suggested that a representative member of
       the local bar committees could be chosen to represent each
       circuit at an informal conference to be held at Washington
       shortly before the regular meeting of this Conference.
       While the integrity of this Conference, as a Judicial Con­
       ference, should be maintained, the Conference would wel­
       come this cooperation of the Bar.
          Amendment of the Act Relating to the Judicial Confer­
       ence.-Last year the Conference considered the appropriate
       development of its own work. In order to avoid any ques­
       tion as to the scope of the authority which the Congress
       intended to confer upon the Conference, as such, the Con­
       ference thought it advisable that there should be an amend­
       ment of the statute which created it (Act of September 14,
       1922,42 Stat. 837, 838; sec. 218, Tit. 28, U. S. Code). The
       Conference requested the Attorney G1:lneral to urge such
       change in the statute as should expressly authorize the
       Conference to recommend to the Congress, from time to
                                                                             61
                                           15
        ~.
       I':
       t	    . time, such changes in statutory law affecting the jurisdic­
             tion, practice, evidence and procedure of and in the dif­
             ferent district courts and circuit courts of appeals as may
             to the Conference seem desirable.
                The Conference renews this recommendation.
                      For the Judicial Conference:
                                                CHARLES   E. HUGHES,
                                                            Ohief Justice.
                October 5, 1931.




II 

I
{,2 

