                                                                        •
                                                                        63



               REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
                            OCTOBER SESSION,   1932.



           The Judicial Conference provided for in the Act of Con­


    I
   gress of September 14, 1922 (U. S. Code, Title 28, sec. 218)
         was called and sat for three days, September 29, Septem­
         ber 30, and October 1, 1932. The following judges were
         present in response to the call of the Chief Justice:
            First Circuit, Senior Judge George H. Bingham.
            Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Martin T. "Manton.
            Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Joseph Buffington.
            Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker.
            Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Nathan P. Bryan.
            Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Charles H. "Moorman.
            Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Samuel Alschuler.
            Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone.
            Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Curtis D. Wilbur.
            The Senior Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, Judge
         Robert E. Lewis, was absent, and his place was duly t~en
         by Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips.
            The Attorney General, the Solicitor General, and their
         aides were present.
            State of the dockets.-"Kumber of cases begun, disposed
         of, and pending, in the Federal District Courts.-The At­
:I
!   ,	
         torney General submitted to the Conference a report of
         the condition of the dockets of the Federal District courts
         for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1932, as compared with
         the fiscal year ending June 30, 1931. Each Circuit Judge
         also presented to the Conference a detailed report, by dis­
         tricts, of the work of the courts in his circuit.
            The report of the Attorney General showed the compara­
         tive number of cases in each of the four major classes com­
· "64 

                                              2

          menced and terminated during the fiscal years 1931 and
          1932 respectively as follows:
                                             Commenced                   Terminated
                                            1931   1932                 1931    1932
          United States civil cases ....   25,332  34,189              25,010  29,591
          Criminal cases ............      83,747  92,174              91,701  96,949
          Private suits ..............     24,000  26,326              24,375  26,045
          Bankruptcy proceedings ...       65,335  70,049              60,322  63,502

                  Total .............. 198,414 222,738               201,408   216,087
            It thus appears that there was an increase in the number
          of cases concluded during the last fiscal year, over the
          number of cases concluded in the previous year, of 14,679.
          This gratifying showing was offset, however, by the fact
          that the number of cases begun during the last year was
          greater by 24,324 than the number of those begun in the
          year before. The result was a net increase in the number
          of cases pending, at the close of the fiscal year, of 6651.
          The distribution of this increase is shown in the following
          table:
                       Pending cases-                              1931          1932 

          United States civil cases ............... .             21,642        26,240 

          Criminal cases ......................... .              27,895        23,120 

          Private litigation ....................... .            36,776        37,057 

          Bankruptcy proceedings ................. .              66,423        72,970 


                                Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 152,736    159,387
            As the Attorney General observed, the increase of 6547,
          as shown above, in the number of pending bankruptcy pro­
          ceedings, reflects an aceumulation of work, which, while it
          requires time and attention, does not operate materially
          to increase the pressure upon the courts. But the incroase
          of 4598 in United States civil cases does involve a heavy
          addition to judicial work.
            War Risk Insurance cases.-The cause of the increase
          in United States civil cases is found in the large number
          of war risk insurance cases. The Attorney General's re­
                                                                   .. 65 



port showed the number of these cases pending during the
fiscal years 1931 and 1932, respectively, as follows:
                                                 1931    1932
Pending, beginning of year .................    4,071    4,883
Commenced during year ...................       2,795    8,213
Terminated during year ....................     1,983    2,868
Pending close of year ......................    4,883   10,228
   There were approximately three times the number of
cases of this sort begun during the fiscal year 1932 as com­
pared with the preceding year, and, notwithstanding the
fact that nearly 1000 more cases were terminated during
the fiscal year 1932, the number pending at the close of
the year, as compared with the previous year, was more
than double,-the actual increase in cases pending being
5345. The serious burden created through the accumula­
tion of cases of this description will apparently increase,
and thus far no practicable method has been found to re­
lieve it.
   National Prohibition Act.-Civil cases.-The number of
civil cases under the National Prohibition Act commenced,
terminated and pending during the fiscal years 1931 and
1932 was as follows:
         Prohibition civil-                    1931      1932 

Pending, close of previous year...........      6,704    6,975 

Commenced during year .................        12,374   15,455 

Terminated during year .................     . 12,103   15,490 

Pending close of year ...................       6,975    6;940 

  This statement shows an increase in this class of cases
from 12,374 begun in 1931, to 15,455 begun in 1932. But
the number of cases terminated increased in approximately
the same ratio, and the number pending at the close of the
year was slightly less than the number pending at the close
of the preceding year.
  Private suits.-The above tabulation of pending cases
shows that there has been but little change in the number
of private suits pending, notwithstanding the fact that the
number of actions commenced during the last fiscal year
was 26,326 as against 24,000 in the previous year.
6G 


         Criminal cases.-It is especially noteworthy that there
       has been a decrease of 4775 in the number of criminal cases
       pending notwithstanding the fact that the number of crim­
       inal cases commenced during the year was 92,174 as against
       83,747 begun during the previous year. It thus appears
       that despite the interruption of the activity of the courts
       near the close of the year, due to insufficient funds, and the
       heavy increase in the number of cases begun, the condition
       of the dockets has been improved by a material reduction
       in the number of pending criminal cases. This, as the
       Attorney General submits, is in the circumstances an ex­
       ceptionally creditable achievement.
         Criminal Cases under the National Prohibition Act.­
       The Attorney General's statement showed that there was
       an increase of 8555 in the number of these cases com­
       menced, but there was also in increase of 7634 in the num­
       ber of cases terminated. The result was that at the close
       of the year there were pending 15,360 of these criminal
       cases as against 18,555 at the end of the preceding year.
       The summary is shown in the following table:
                 Prokt-oition criminal-             1931        1932 

       Pending, close of previous year...........   22,671     18,555 

       Commenced during year .................      57,405     65,960 

       Terminated during year .................     61,521     69,155 

       Pending close of year ....................   18,555     15,360 

         Circuit Courts of Appeals.-In appellate work, there ap­
       pears to be no problem in relation to the congestion of
       dockets. The Circuit· Courts of Appeals continue to keep
       up with their work. There is, however, a special exigency
       in the Ninth Circuit where there are at present only two
       Circuit Judges. The pressure of the work of the District
       Courts is such that District Judges are not available to
       carry on continuously the work of the Circuit Court of
       Appeals. As a result, it appears that the Court has been
       compelled at times to sit with only two Judges. To pro­
       vide adequate service in that Court there should not only
       be a successor to fill the vacancy caused by the death of
       Judge Rudkin, but there should be a removal of the exist­
                                                                  :1'67 


                              5
ing limitation npon the appointment of a successor to
Judge Gilbert (Act of March 1, 1929, c. 413, secs. 1 and 2,
45 Stat. 1414; U. S. Code, Title 28, sec. 213 (b». The
Conference renews its recommendation to this effect.
   There is no need of additional Circuit Judges in other
circuits.
   District CO1lrts.-Wlule the Conference :tully realizes
the difficulties growing out of economic conditions and the
imperative necessity for retrenchment in governmental
expenses, the Conference deems it to be its duty to set forth
the actual needs of the judicial department. Accordingly,
the Conference, repeating former recommendations on this
subject, again records its view that, in the instances men­
tioned below, the restrictions now imposed by statute on
the filling of vacancies, which now exist or will arise in the
District Courts, should be removed (U. S. Code, Title 28,
secs. 3,4, 4(h), 4(i) ) as it is believed that the need for the
judgeships mentioned is not temporary but permanent.
The judgeships as to which this recommendation IS re­
newed are the following:
        2 in the district of Massachusetts; 

        2 in the southern district of New York; 

        1 in the eastern district of New York; 

        1 in the western district of Pennsylvania; 

        1 in the eastern district of Michigan; 

        1 in the eastern district of Missouri; 

        1 in the western district of Missouri; 

        1 in the northern district of Ohio; 

        1 in the southern district of California; 

        1 in the district of Arizona j 

        1 in the district of Minnesota; 

        1 in the southern district of Iowa. 

   It should be noted, in relation to these judgeships, that
there are at present only three vacancies,-one in the
southern district of New York, caused by the resignation
of Judge Winslow; one in the eastern district of Michigan,
caused by the appointment of Judge Simons as Circuit
Judge; and one in the southern district of Iowa, due to the
.' ­ -\ 68
.




                                           6

             death of Judge Wade. As these are existing vacancies, it
             is deemed especially urgent that appropriate provision
             should be made for successors. In relation to the other
             judgeships above mentioned, where there is at present no
             vacancy, removal of the limitation on the appointment of
             successors is deemed to be advisable so as to avoid, when
             a vacancy arises, a serious interruption in judicial work
             because of the want of legislative authority for the filling
             of the vacancy.
                Provision for additional District Judges.-In addition to
             legislative provision for the appointment of successors in
             the instances above mentioned, the Conference renews its
             recommendation for the creation of additional judgeships
             as follows:
                    2 additional district judges for the southern dis­
                       trict of New York;
                    1 additional district judge for the eastern district
                       of New York;
                    1 additional district judge for the northern district
                       of Georgia;
                     1 additional district judge for West Virginia;
                     1 additional district judge for the southern district
                       of Texas;
                     2 additional district judges for the southern district
                       of California;
                     1 additional district judge for the western district
                       of Missouri.
                In this connection, the Confer:ence reaffirms the views
             expressed last year in relation to conditions in Missouri
              and Louisiana as follows:
                "With respect to the situation in Missouri, the Confer­
              ence, upon an examination of conditions there, is satisfied
              that additional judicial service is needed and that an ad­
              ditional district judge, available for service in both the
              Eastern and Western Districts, would meet the exigency.
              The Conference therefore recommends, as above stated,
              an additional district judge for the Western District of
              Missouri, with the understanding that he shall be subject
                                                                _   :~;;   69

                             7
to assignment, under provisions of existing law, for such
service as may be necessary in the Eastern District of
Missouri.
   "On consideration of the situation in Louisiana, the Con­
ference is satisfied that no additional judgeship is needed
in the Western District of Louisiana. The Conference is
further of the opinion that judicial service can be ade­
quately maintained in Louisiana by a combination of the
Eastern and Western Districts".
   Assignments of Judges.-Last year the- Conference
called attention to the provisions of existing law for the
assignment by the Senior Circuit Judge of any District
Judge to service within the same judicial circuit when by
reason of disability, absence of a District Judge, or the
accumulation or urgency of business, the public interest so
requires; and the Conference expressed the view that this
authority should be exercised and the District Judges
should willingly accept such assignments and thus aid the
 Senior Circuit Judge in the discharge of his duty under the
 statute.
   The subject was again brought before the Conference
at the present session and, emphasizing the duty as pre·
 scribed by law, the Conference adopted the following reso·
lution:
   "RESOLVED, That it is the sense of the Conference that
 whenever a Federal judge is assigned to work or service in
 a district court he shall accept that assignment and per­
 form the work to which he is assigned as a duty imposed
 by section 23 of Title 28, United States Code (Judicial
 Code, sec. 19)".
    Provision for travelling and subsistence of law clerks
 and secretaries to Oircuit Judges and of secretaries to Dis­
 trict Judges.-In his report to the Conference, the At­
 torney General recited the recent i3ff'orts which he had
 made to reduce expenses and to maintain the essential
 service of the judicial department within the restricted
 appropriation. The Conference expressed its apprecia·
                             8

tion of these efforts and its entire sympathy with the pur­
pose in view. It appeared, however, that the elimination
of certain expenditures for needed clerical assistance to
Circuit Judges when holding court at places required by
law, and to District Judges, within their own circuit, had
the effect of seriously impeding the work of Federal courts.
The diffbulties were very clearly set forth by members of
the Conference in an exposition of the conditions obtain­
ing in several circuits. A committee appointed to consider
the subject brought in the following report and recom­
mendation:
    "Your committee, to which was referred the question
of travelling and subsistence expenses of law clerks and
secretaries to Circuit Judges and of secretaries to Dis­
 trict Judges, beg to report thereon as follows:
    "Existing law provides for the payment of these and
 other expenses for holding court out of a lump-sum ap­
propriation which is placed at the disposal of the Attorney
 General; but the amount appropriated by Congress for the
 current year is insufficient to meet all such expenses. Con­
fronted with this situation the Attorney General has pared
 down the expenses provided for by law and has cut out en­
 tirely the travelling and subsistence expenses to which
 reference is above made. We are advised that such ex­
 penses usually amount to about $75,000. Of this amount
 a part is devoted to travelling and subsistence expenses of
 secretaries to District Judges where the District Judges
 go outside of their own Circuit to hold court in other Cir­
 cuits. As to this part of expense we think the plan of the
 Attorney General might well be approved. But as to al­
 lowances to law clerks and secretaries where the Judges
 are holding court within their own Circuit we think the
 dispatch of business will be very much interfered with and
 the work of the Judges much delayed. The inevitable re­
 sult will be further congestion of the dockets of both the
 District Courts and the Circuit Courts of Appeals. We
  therefore recommend the adoption of the following reso­
 lution:
                                                                           71 

                                       9
             "Be it resolved that the Attorney General be requested to
          authorize, when approved by the Senior Circuit Judge, the
          travelling and subsistence expenses for law clerks and
          secretaries to Circuit Judges and secretaries to District
          Judges in the respective Circuits and request a deficiency
          appropriation, if it shall be required, to cover such ex­
          penses".
              The Conference adopted the resolution thus recom­
          mended.
              Gran.d Jury Proceedings.-The Oonference adopted last
          year a resolution in relation to 'the delay and expense
          caused by the necessity of both a preliminary examination
          and a presentment to the grand jury in cases where the
          accused intends to plead guilty, and the Conference recom­
          mended to the Attorney General a study of the matter and
           the consideration of the advisability of permitting in .such
           cases a waiver of grand jury proceedings. The Attorney
           General reported that legislation to this eff·ect is pending
           in the Congress.
              Probation.-In response to a request of the Conference
(......    at its last session, the Circuit Judges presented reports
           with respect to the administration of the Probation Law
           in their respective circuits. Following discussion upon                I
           these reports, the following resolution was adopted:
              "RESOLVED, That it is the sense of this Conference that
           the Probation System established by recent Act of Con­
           gress is a forward step in the administration of justice
                                                                                  I
            and that the purpose which it has in view should be
           furthered by the trial judges of the country; and it appear­
            ing, that for the proper administration of probation, a
            sufficient number of probation officers should be provided,
            and that the cost of an efficient Probation System will, in
            all probability, be more than offset by the saving of ex­
            pense in prison administration:
               "It is therefore recommended, That the Attorney Gen­
            eral seek provision for the extension and efficient adminis­
            tration of the Probation System so far as the present state
            of the finances of the government will permit, and that he
            consider the advisability of securing such change in the law
12
                                  10 

     as will permit probation to be granted by the trial judge
     after, as well as before, execution of the sentence has been
     begun in cases in which the punishment imposed is one
     year or less".
        Parole.-The Conference also adopted the following res­
     olution with respect to action by the Parole Board:
        "RESOLVED, That it is the sense of this Conference that
     the Parole Board, before passing upon an application for
     parole, should communicate with the Judge who has im­
     posed the sentence and obtain his view as to whether or
     not the parole should "be granted, and that said inquiry
     should be made within a reasonable time prior to the action
     of the Parole Board, and not merely at the time sentence
     is imposed; and that any Judge of whom such inquiry is
     made by the Parole Board should communicate to the
     Board his views in the premises with any recommenda­
     tions which may seem proper".
       Competency of spouses as witnesses in Federal criminal
     cases.-The Attorney General directed the attention of the
     Conference to a pending bill (H. R. 10596, 72d Congress,
     1st session) whieh makes the husband or wife of a person
     charged with crime in United States courts a competent,
     but not compellable, witness for or against his or her
     spouse, except as to confidential communications. The
     Conference is of the opinion that the proposed legislation,
     in the interest of definitely removing an archaie rule, inc­
     sponsive to modern conditions, is highly desirable.
       Rules of practice and procedure in criminal cases after
     verdict.-The Attorney General reported to the Confer­
     ence that his stndy of the Federal criminal procedure, and
     of the causes for delay in the effective punishment of crime
     in the Federal Courts, has disclosed that the greatest delay
     in criminal cases is after the rendition of verdict, and that
     no effective control of, or remedy for, sueh delay is possible
     under existing statutes. The Attorney General stated that
     under the practice prevailing under existing statutes delays
     of from nine months to three years now intervene in many
     cases between verdict and the final mandate upon appeal.
     Avoidable delay in this class of cases is not due to a fail­
                                          11 


r'- ..·..·
   ..
             ure of the appellate courts, after the cases reach them, to
             act expeditiously. It is rather due to dilatory proceedings
             after verdict and before the cases are ready for appellate
             action.
                The Attorney General called to the attention of the Con­
             ference the bill pending in the Congress (E. R. 10639, 72d
             Congress, 1st Session) to give the Supreme Court of the
             United States authority to prescribe rnles of practice and
             procedure with respect to proceedings in criminal cases
             after verdict; and he expressed the opinion that, with the
             passage of this statute, rules could be framed which would
             result in the elimination of excessive delays in the disposi­
             tion of criminal appeals.
                The Conference approves this proposed legislation.
                Circuit Conferences.-The report of Circuit Judges with 

             respect to Circuit Couferences which have been held during 

             the past year in several Circuits confirms the view of their 

             utility. A Circuit Conference serves to bring together all 

             the Federal Judges of the Circuit and thus to give oppor­

             tunity for the consideration of problems with which they 

             are confronted in seeking to eliminate obstructions to the 

             prompt and efficient administration of justice in the several 

             districts. It may be that these local conferences are not as
             necessary in Circuits that are relatively of small area, with
                                                                               I:
                                                                               I
                                                                               I,
             large centers of population, in which Federal judges are          ~

             brought into almost constant contact. In large portions
             of the country the District Judges have no. such contact
             with each other or with Circuit Judges, and annual Cir­
             cuit Conferences s,hould be most helpful. It is strongly
             recommended that such conferences be held wherever
             feasible.
                The Conference has also called attention to the desir­
             ability of promoting cooperation between the Bench and
             Bar in the several Federal districts, to the end that defects
             in administration which may be thought to exist may have
             appropriate attention, and that the most expert judgment
             may be utilized in devising remedies. It is believed that
             from the several districts, especially if aided by this co­
t .          operation, well-considered proposals may be brought to
-:.~-
..
_
,;.

                                  12 

      Circuit Conferences and thence to this Conference of
      Senior Circuit Judges. The advantage to this Conference
      of having before it proposals which have been carefully
      matured in this way is manifest.
        Amendment of legislation with respect to the Judicial
      Conference.-The Conference has requested the Attorney
      General to urge such change in the statute, under which
      the Conference is organized, as should expressly authorize
      the Conference to recommend to the Congress, from time
      to time, "such changes in statutory law affecting the juris­
      diction, practice, evidence and procedure of, and in the
      different district courts and circuit courts of appeals as
      may to the Conference seem desirable". The Attorney
      General has advised the Conference that legislation for
      this purpose is pending in the Congress. The Conference
      renews its recommendation as to the advisability of this
      legislation.
        For the Judicial Conference:
                                         CHARLES   E.    HUGHES,
                                                        Chief Justice.

      October 3, 1932.
