f

          REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
                       OCTOBER SESSION,   1935.


      The Judicial Conference provided for in the Act of Con­
    gress of September 14, 1922 (U. S. Code, Title 28; sec. 218),
    convened on October 3, 1935. The following judges were
    present in response to the call of the Chief Justice:
      First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge George H. Bingham.
      Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Martin T. Manton.
      Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Joseph Buffington.
      Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker.
      Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Rnfus E. Foster.
      Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Charles H. Moorman.
      Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans.
      Eighth Circnit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone.
      Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Ourtis D. Wilbur.
      The Senior Oircuit Judge for the Tenth Oircuit, Judge
    Robert E. Lewis, was absent, and his place was taken by          l
    Oircuit Judge Orie L. Phillips.
      The Acting Attorney General (the Solicitor General) and
    his aides were present at the opening of the iOonference.
       State of the Dockets.-Number of Gases Begun, Disposed
    of, and Pending, in the Federal District Gour/s.-The Act­
    ing Attorney General submitted to the Oonference a report
    of the condition of the dockets of the Federal District Courts
    for the fiscal year ending J nne 30, 1935, as compared with
    the previous fiscal year. Each Oircuit Judge also pre­
    sented to the Oonference a detailed report, by districts, of
    the work of the courts in his circuit.
       The report of the Attorney General and the report of
    the last Oonference show the comparative number of United
                                                            ·,.'.,   . . ,.'.''­ ,_ ....   '




                                2
States and private civil cases, exclusive of bankruptcy
cases, co=enced and terminated during the fiscal years
1934 and 1935, as follows:
                   Commenced     Terminated
                  1934   1935 1934     1935
                 35,959 35,917 44,514 37,287                                                   ,:,i.

   The Attorney General submitted the following compara­
tive statement of pending cases, civil and criminal, as of
June 30, 1934 and June 30, 1935:
    Pending cases-                                  1934       1935 

United States civil cases .................... .   17,303     19,597 

Criminal cases ............................. .      9,478     11,469 

Private suits ............................... .    36,051     27,345 

Bankruptcy cases ........................... .     63,352     65,347 

      . Total. ................................ 126,184 123,758 

  It thus appears that there has been a considerable in­
crease in the number of pending criminal cases. The At­
                                                                                               r

                                                                                                'i


torney General states that, contrary to expectation, the re­
peal of the Eighteenth Amendment has not resulted in lift­
ing appreciably any burden resting on the federal courts.
In the place of "prohibition cases," the dockets contain a
large number of cases involving violations of the liquor
revenue laws. The Attorney General observes that the
population of federal penal and correctional institutions is·
growing. He also notes that while the number of "prohi­
bition cases" was very large, the percentage disposed of
without trial was greater than in other classes of criminal
cases because of the large number of dismissals and pleas
of guilty.
  The total number of cases, civil and criminal, pending as
of June 30, 1935, was somewhat less than the number pend­
ing at the close of the preceding fiscal year. But the above
tabulation shows that the decrease is wholly in private suits,
exclusive of bankruptcy cases. That diminution, as the At­
torney General points out, may be explained by the action
of many district courts in striking a large number of in­
active civil cases from their dockets.
                                   "   ....
                                          '




                                                                   93

                               3
   Recent legislation, and especially the provisions for cor­
porate reorganization under the amendments of the Bank­
ruptcy Act, have greatly increased the work of district
judges. Reorganization proceedings require many hearings                'I
on contested questions which are frequently important and                i·
difficult. It is increasingly apparent that a mere tabulation            ,i ,
of the number of cases, and the classification which has been           i,;l
used in presenting judicial statistics, afford a very unsatis­          !I
                                                                        i~ .
factory basis for determining the extent of the judicial work
required or the efficiency of judicial administration.
   The Attorney General advised the Conference that the
Department of Justice has inaugurated a new and scientific
system for maintaining judicial statistics. Instead of mak­
ing a tabulation from figures reported by the clerks of the
district courts, a statistical section has been installed in the
Department, in charge of a trained statistician. A separate
card for every civil case, and for every defendant in every
criminal case, is sent to the Department, and it is hoped
that statistical tables compiled from these cards will be
more accurate and helpful. Even with the aid of this im­
proved and detailed information, it will be necessary to
know something of the amount of time required in various
classes of cases, and especially in bankruptcy cases, under
the extended jurisdiction for which the present law pro..'
vides, in order to form a proper estimate of the bnrden
resting upon district judges.
   Last year, to give a clearer view of the actual state of the'
work of the district courts, the Attorney General compiled
for the Conference a table showing the time reqnired to
reach the trial of civil cases after joinder of issue. The
Attorney General has supplied a similar tabnlation based
upon reports of the disposition of cases during the last
fiscal year. It appears from this tabnlation that in 46,out
of a total of 84, judicial districts, the business is current
and that all ready cases are tried at the term following
joinder of issue; that is, the dockets are cleared at each
term and there are no arrears of business except as to cases
continued at the request of counsel. This salutary situa­
     ...   "   ~.   .



                                                                                          94 

                                                      4
                        tion also exists in certain divisions of 10 other districts and
                        as to certain classes of business in 4 other districts. In 16
                        districts the average interval between joiuder of issue and
                        trial is reported as not exceeding 6 months. In only 15 dis­
                        tricts is there a delay of over 6 months in the time required
                        to reach the trial of a case after issue has been joined.
                           The Conference called attention last year to the serious
                        congestion and delays that were found in the Southern Dis­
                        trict of California and in the Southern District of New York.
                        In the former the average interval between joinder of issue
                        and trial in ordinary course is about 18 months. Bnt
                        that situation has been met by the action of the Congress
                        in providing for the appointment of 2 additional judges in
                        that District.
                           Similar relief has not yet been provided for the Southern
                        District of New York and relief there is most seriously
                        needed. In that District the interval between joinder of
                        issue and trial is found to be 22 months for civil jury cases;
                        23 months for suits in eqnity; and 27 months for suits in
r(                      admiralty. The delays as to actions at law and suits in
                        equity have considerably increased since July 1, 1934. These
                        have occurred notwithstanding the most earnest efforts of
                        the district judges in that District to keep up with their
                        work, and the relief which has been afforded, so far as has'
                        been found practicable, by the assignment of judges from
                        other districts. It is earnestly hoped that provision will
                        soon be made for the appointment of additional judges for'
                        the Southern District of New York, as the Conference has
                        repeatedly reco=ended.
                           The improvement in the speedy disposition of cases in
                        the district courts generally is notable. Instead of 31 dis­
                        tricts in which it was found by the last Conference "that all
                        ready cases were tried at the term following joinder of
                        issue", it now appears, as above stated, that during the
                        last fiscal year there were 46 districts in which cases were
                        thus promptly tried. The Conference heard reports from
                        the Senior Circuit Judges with respect to the situation in               :';
                                                                                                 r.'
                        the particular districts where delays have occurred, and
                        every effort is being made to insure as prompt a disposition
    -,-   ,':.",   .'         ,'.   :,.   +   -'   •




                                                               5
                                                                                       951 

                   of cases as is practicable in view of the inescapable burden
                   of judicial work. The Conference, as is shown below, makes
                   particular recommendations as to the localities where addi­
                   tional judicial assistance is essential.                               I'

                     Circuit Courts of Appeals.-It is gratifying to be able               Ii 

                   again to observe that no problem is presented so far as the            I'
                   circuit courts of appeals are concerned.
                                                                                          I

                     Provision for Additional District Judgeships.-At the                 !
                   last session of the Congress, provision was made for the
                   appointment of two additional district judges for the South­
                   ern District of California, one additional district judge for
                   the Eastern District of Virginia, and one additional district
                   judge for the Eastern District of New York.
                     The Conference in 1934 recommended the removal.of re­
                   strictions upon the filling of vacancies in certain existing
                   judgeships, as follows:
                          2   in          the      District of Massachusetts;
                          2   in          the      Southern District of New York;
                          1   in          the      Eastern District of New York;
                          1   in          the      Western District of Pennsylvania;
                          1   in          the      Eastern District of Michigan;
                          1   in          the      Eastern District of Missouri;
                          1   in          the      Western District of Missouri;
                          1   in          the      Northern District of Ohio;
                          1   in          the      Southern District of California;
                          1   in          the      District of Minnesota.
                     The Congress at its last session removed the restrictions
                   in all these instances and, in addition, with respect to judge­
                   ships in the District of Arizona and the Northern District
                   of Texas.
                     In 1931, and again in 1932, the Conference recommended
                   that provision be made for additional district judges as
                   follows:
                        2 additional district judges for the Southern District
                          of N'!lw York;
(                       1 additional district judge for the Eastern District of
                          New York;
. ,.          ••••   , ' .,<   ••• ,'.       ........




                                         6
               1 additional district judge for the Northern District
                 of Georgia;
               1 additional district judge for West Virginia;
               1 additional district judge for the Southern District
                 of Texas;
               2 additional district judges for the Southern District
                 of :California;
               1 additional district judge for the Western District of
                 Missouri.
             While restating its belief that tills recommendation was
           fully justified, the ·Conference in 1933, in view of existing
           economic conditions, refrained from renewing the recom­
           mendation at that time, without prejudice to its later re­
           newal, except with respect to the additional district judges
           for the Southern District of New York and for the Southern
           District of California where the increase was deemed to be
           imperatively required. The same attitude was taken by
           the Conference in 1934.
       c     At its present session, the Conference has carefully re­
           viewed the existing exigencies in the various districts, and
           now recommends that, in addition to the provision already
           made by the Congress, additional district judgeships should
           be provided as follows:
                 2 additional district judges for the Southern District
                   of New York;
                 1 additional district judge for the Northern District ~f
                   Georgia;
                 1 additional district judge for West Virginia;
                 1 additional district judge for the Western District of
                   Missouri;
                 1 additional district judge for Louisiana;
                 1 additional district judge for Kansas;
                 1 additional district judge for Oklahoma.
             With respect to Missouri, the Conference repeats its
           statements of 1931 and 1932 to the effect that additional
           judicial service is needed, and that an additional district
           -   .".:,.   .   '.             -'. ",




                                                                           97
                                       7
Ie.: 	   judge, available for service in both the Eastern and West­
         ern Districts, will meet the exigency. The Conference
         recommends, as above stated, an additional district judge
         for the Western District of Missouri, with the understand­
         ing that he shall be subject to assignment, under provisions
         of existing law, for such servce as may be necessary in
         the Eastern District of Missouri.
           Appointment of Masters.-In making the above recom­

         mendation for additional judges, the Conference has in 

         mind the importance of compliance ,vith Equity Rule No. 

         59, that, save in matters of account, a reference to a master 

         shall be the exception, not the rule, and shall be made ouly 

         upon a showing that some specal condition requires it. (See 

         Los Angeles Brush Manufacturing Corp. v. James, District 

         Judge, 272 U. S. 701.) The Conference has found that on 

         account of the lack of an adequate number of judges the 

         practice has been freely indulged, in certain districts, of 

         appointing masters to hear equity cases. This practice 

         imposes upon parties an inordinate expense which should 

(        be avoided wherever possible. It is essential to the ap­
         propriate administration of justice that adequate provision
         be made for judicial administration through judges.
           Procedure.-The Chief Justice gave the Conference a l 

         summary of the action taken under the Act of June 19, 1934 

         (48 Stat. 1064), with a view to the preparation of a unified. 

         system of rules for cases in equity and actions at law, so as 

         to secure one form of civil action and procedure for both, 

         so far as this may be done without the violation of any sub­

         stantive right. The Chief Justice referred to the appoint­ 

         ment by the Supreme Court, on June 3, 1935, of. an .Ad­

         visory Committee to assist the Court in this undertaking, 

         and to the gratifying interest which has been evinced by 

         the members of the bar. 

           Death of Senior Circuit Judge Bryan, of the Fifth Cir­
         cuit.-The Conference adopted the following resolution:
                  On the assembling of the Judicial Conference of               !i.
c	              1935, members thereof consisting of the Chief Justice
                                                                                [:
   ".   ,-..




                                                                              98
                                            8
                   of the United States and the Senior Judges of the
                   ten Circuits, the deep feeling of all centered in the
                   sense of loss in the death of Nathan P. Bryan, Senior
                   Circuit Judge of the Fifth Circuit. Judge Bryan had
                   endeared himself to us all, enlisted our warm friend­
                   ship by the fine traits of his character, and gained our
                   confidence in his legal ability, the wisdom of his coun­
                   sel and the poise and worth of his matured judgment.
                   To his wife, deprived of his companionship, to the
                   bench and bar of the Fifth Circuit, deprived of his
                   leadership, we severally and unitedly, extend our
                   heartfelt sympathy in the passing away of one in whom
                   there was no guile, 8uaviter in modo, fortiter in reo
                 For the Judicial Conference:
                                                 CHARLES   E. HUGHES,
                                                           Chief Justice.
               October 7, 1935.
,:·f
 ,
