      REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
                   OCTOBER SESSION,   1936:



  The Judicial Conference provided for in the Act of Con­
gress of September 14,1922 (U. S. Code, Title 28, soo. 218),
convened on October 1, 1936, and continued in session for
three days. The following judges were present in response
to the call of the Chief Justice:
  First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge George H. Bingham.
  Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Martin T. Manton.
  Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Joseph Buffingbon.
  Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker.
  Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Rufus E. Foster.
  Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans.
  Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone.
  Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Curtis D. Wilbur.
  Tenth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Robert E. Lewis.
  The Senior Circuit Judge for the Si.'dh Circuit, Judge
Charles H. Moorman, was absent, and his place was taken
by Circuit Judge Xenophon Hicks.
  The Chief Justice invited the Chief Justice of the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia to at­
tend the Conference, and, on his suggestion, as he was un­
able to attend, :Mr. Justice Groner was present in his stead.
  The Attorney General and the Solicitor General, with
their aides, were present at the opening of the Conference.

  State of the Dockets.-Number of Cases Begun, Disposed
of, and Pending, in the Federal District Courls.-Upon the
request of the Chief Justice, the Attorney General submitted
to the Oonference a report -of the condition of the dockets
of the Federal District Courts for the fiscal year ending
                                           2


June 30, 1936, as compared with the previous fiscal year.
Each Circuit Judge also presented to the 'Conference a de­
tailed report, by districts, of the work of the courts in his
circuit.
   The Conference was thus advised by the Attorney Gen­
eral of the comparative number of Uniied States and pri­
vate civil cases, exclusive of bankruptcy cases, commenced
and terminated during the fiscal years 1935 and 1936. The
report of the Attorney General disclosed the following:
            Commenced                                    Terminated
         1935       1936                              1935        1936
        35,917     39,227                            37,287      41,384

   The Attorney General submitted the foH'Owing compara­
tive statement of pending cases, civil and criminal, as 'Of
June 30, 1935 (revised) and June 30,1936:
    Pending cas.es­                                                1935     1936
United States civil cases. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15,265    13,715
Criminal cases ...........................•                       11,469    10,886
Private suits .....•........................                      32,067    31,460
Bankruptcy cases. . . . .•. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. ..    61,703    58,910

        Total ............................... 120,504                      114,971

   There is thus a decrease not only in the total number of
pending cases at the close of the last fiscal year but also a
decrease in each class of cases above described.
   As has frequently been observed, statistical statements
of totals, even of a specified class of cases, do not furnish
an adequate basis for estimating the extent of judicial work
or the efficiency with which it is prosecuted. Such totals do
of course give a general idea of the movement {)f litigation.
   Last year the Conference was greatly aided in its appre­
ciation of the condition of work in the federal courts by the
new system which the Attorney General had established.
This system has been followed, and an even more elaborate
classification of cases has been made, in presenting the sta­
tistics for the last fiscal year. The effort of the Attorney
                                                                           '1C 

                                      3
(      General to supply accurate infonnation which will pennit a
       fair conspectus of the state of the dockets in the different
       districts is highly commended. The subject is receiving
       expert attention for the purpose of secnring improvements
       in method, whenever practicable.
          One of the most helpful of the statistical tables sub­
       mitted by the Attorney General is one showing the -time re­
       quired to reach the trial .of civil cases after joinder of issue.
       It is gratifying to note, as the Attorney General states, that
       it appears from this tabulation that in 51 out of a total of
       85 judicial districts the business of the district courts is
       current, that is, all cases ready for trial are disposed of at
       the tenn following joinder of issue. This means that there
       are n.o arrears except as to cases continued a-t the request of
       counsel. The improvement is shown by the fact that in the
       fiscal year ending June 30, 1934, there were only 31 districts
       of which that could be said, and in the fiscal year ending
       June 30, 1935, it was true of 46 districts.
          It also appears that in the last fiscal year this condition
'. 	   obtained not only in the 51 districts above mentioned but
       also in certain divisions of 9 other distriots and as to cer­
       tain classes of business in 6 additional districts. It is
       stated that in some of the 51 districts above mentioned
       equity cases may be tried even between tenns '8S soon as
       ready.
          In 16 districts the average interval betly-een joinder of
       issue and trial is reported as 'not exceeding 6 months, and
       in only 18 districts are there delays of over 6 months.
          It is thus apparent that the question of delays in the hear­
       ing of cases is one that should be considered with respect to
        particular districts. The Conference in recent years re­
       peatedly called attention to the serious congestion and de­
       lays that were f.ound in the Southern District of California
        and in the Southern District of New York and recommenda­
        tions were made for the appointment of additional district
        jUdges. These recommendations have been followed by ac­
        tion of the Congress and important gains have been made.
1"02 

                                     4

         In the Southern District of California, as reported by thE
         Attorney General,· the average interval between joinder
         of issue and trial in ordinary course has been reduced from
         18 to 8 months. It is hoped that the recent appointment of
         additional judges in the Southern District of New York will
         lead to a similar improvement. Further assistance, by spe­
         cial designation, for the Southern District of New York is
         also rendered possible by the appointment of an additional
         judge for the Eastern District in that State.
            The Senior Circuit Judges submitted reports with re­
         spect to the situation in particular districts where delays
         have occurred and all practicable efforts are being made to
         insure promptitude in the disposition of cases.
           Provision for Ad.ditional District Judgeships.-In 1935
         the Conference recommended that additional judgeships be
         provided as follows:
             2 additional district judges for the Southern District
               of New York;
             1 additional district judge for the Northern District of
               Georgia;
             1 additional district judge for West Virginia;
             1 additional district judge for the Western District of
                Missouri; 

             1 additional district judge for Louisiana; 

             1 additional district judge for Kansas; 

             1 additional district judge for Oklahoma. 

           In accordance with these recommendations the following
         provision has been made by the Congress.:
              2 additional district judges for the Southern District
                of New York;
              1 additional district judge for the Northern and South­
                ern Districts of West Virginia;
              1 additional district judge fur the Eastern and Western
                 Districts of Missouri;
              1 additional district judge for the Eastern, Northern
                 and Western Districts of Oklahoma.
                                                                        1( 

                                    5
('     In addition to the additional judgeships recommended by
     the Conference, the Congress also made provision for:
         1 'additional district judge for the Eastern and West­
            ern Districts of Kentucky;
         1 additional district judge for the Eastern District of
            Pennsylvania, with the limitation that when a va­
            cancy occur in the office of district judge for that dis­
            trict it should not be filled, and thereafter there
            should be but three district judges in that district.
        After reviewing the condition of work in the various dis­
     tricts, the Conference at the present session recommended
     that the following additional district judgeships should be
     provided:
         1 additional district judge for the Northern District     of
           Georgia;
         1 additional district judge for the Eastern District      of
           Louisiana;
         1 additional district judge for the Southern District     of
           Texas;
         1 additional district judge for the Western District      of
           Washington.
        Circuit Courts of Appeals.-The reports of the circuit
     judges sho\v that the circuit courts of appeals generally are
     well up with their work. Circuit Judge Wilbur submitted a
     request that the Conference recommend that two additional
     cireuit judges be provided for the Ninth Circuit. In view of
     this request the Conference appointed a committee to con­
     sider the necessities of the Ninth Circuit, including the ques­
     tion of the practicability and desirability of a change in the
     territorial division of States among the Eighth, Ninth and
     Tenth Circuits,-the committee to report at the next session
     of the Conference. Further, as proposed by Circuit Judge
     Wilbur, the Conference appointed. a committee to consider
     the advisability of amending § 212 of Title 28 of the United
     States Code in relation to the constitution of the circuit
     courts of appeals, with particular reference to those cir­
     cuits in which there are now more than three judges,-that
     10~-
                                         6

1
            committee also to report at the next session of the Con­

j
          ference. 

                Delay in Imposing Sentences in Criminal Cases.-The
            Attorney General submitted a statement in relation to the
            "prevailing tendency" in some district courts to delay sen­
            tence in crimin-al cases, even when there is "no impediment"
            operating against such imposition. The Attorney General's
            statement related only to "instances where, after conviction,
            the court postpones the duty of imposing judgment from
            time to time, or from term to term, meanwhile permitting
            the defendant to go where he will without restriction". The
            procedure to which reference was thus made did not involve
            cases where under the applicable statute there was resort to
            probation. The Attorney General submitted a number of
             illustrations.
                The practice thus challenged is disapproved. The atten­
             tion of district judges is directed to the provision of the
             Criminal Appeals Rules promulgated May 7, 1934, by the
             Supreme Court of the United States. Rule I provides as
             follows:
                  "L Sentence. After a plea of guilty, or a verdict of
                guilt by a jury or finding of guilt by the trial court
                where a jury is waived, and except as provided in the
                Act of March 4, 1925, c. 521,43 Stat. 1259, sentence shall
                be imposed 'Yithout delay unless (1) a motion for the
                withdrawal of a plea of guilty, or in arrest of judgment
                or for a new trial, is pending, or the trial oourt is of
                opinion that there is reasonable ground for such a mo­
                tion; 'Or (2) the cOlldition or character of the defendant,
                or 'Other pertinent matters, should be investigated in
                the interest of jus.tice before sentence is imposed.
                   "Pending sentence, the court may commit the defend·
                ant or continue or increase the amount of baiL"

               Amendment of Section 24b of'1ke Bankruptcy Act.-The
             Conference appointed a oommittee to consider the advisabil­
             ity of amending· § 24b of the Bankruptcy Act with respect
             to -the allowance of appeals.
                                                                 , 1

                              1

   Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Court of the
 U'nited States and the Supreme Court of the District of Co­
lllmbia.-This session of the Conference afforded an oppor­
 tunity for the discussion of questions raised by the prelimi­
.nary draft of Rules of Civil Procedure as prepared by the
Advisory Committee appointed by the Supreme Court. Ad­
vantage was taken of this opportunity and views were pre­
sented and discussed on a number of impol'tant points.
These views and the discussion will be submitted to the
Supreme Court.

  Appointment of Official Stenogt"aphers.-The following
resolution was adopted by the Conference:
       "Resolved that it is t.he sense of the Conference that
    provision should be made for the appointment of official
    stenographers for the reporting of trials in the district
    courts. It is not necessary that salaried offices be cre­
    ated. The need would be met by an act authorizing the
    district judge of each judicial district to appoint one or
    more official court stenographers for that district, and
    to fix by rule of court the compensation which such
    stenographers shall be entitled to charge for their serv­
    ices, with provision that amounts properly paid by pat­
    ties for the service of such stenographers be taxable as
    costs in the case in the discretion of the trial judge. "
   Clerical8alaries in the Southern District of California.­
In view of a request from all the district judges of the
Southern District of California for an increase of clerical
salaries in that District (based upon a detailed statement of
the urgent need therefor), and of correspondence wi:th the
Department of Justice relating to that subject in which the
lack of adequate appropriations for the purpose is empha­
sized, the Conference resolved that the request be referred
to the Attorney General for such consideration as he may
find to be appropriate.

  Rules of Circuit Courts of Appeals as to Procedure on
Petitions ~o Review Decisions of the Processing Tax Board
of Review.-Referring to the provision of § 906(g) of the
lOG 

                                              8


        Revenue Act of 1936, authorizing the Circuit Courts of Ap­
        peals and the United States Court of Appeal-s for the Dis­
        trict of Columbia to adopt rules" for the filing of petit.ions
        for review, the preparation of the record for review, and the
        conduct of the proceedings on review", the Conference
        adopted the following resolution:
               "Resolved that each of the Circuit Courts of Appeals
            and the United States Court of Appeals for the District
            of Columbia add after the rule relating to petitions to
            review decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals a rule
            relating to a review of decisions of the Board of Review
            as follows:
                          H BOARD OF REVIEW.

               "The procedure on petitions to review decisions of
            the Board of Review established in the Treasury De­
            partment by Section 906 of the Act of June 22, 1936,
            shall be the same as that prescribed by these rules for
            review of decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals; and
            the provisions of Rule - - - shall apply to such pe­
            titions to review decisions of said Boord of Review, ex­
            cept that where the words 'Board of Tax Appeals'
            occur in said rule the words' Board of Review' shall be
            understood as applicable."
             • The reference is to the partieular rule of the appellate conrt.

           Representation, in the Confere.nce, of the United States
        Oourt of Appeals for the District of Oolumbia.-The Con­
        ference adopted a recommendation that the Act constituting
        the Oonference (28 U. S. C. 218) be amended so as to pro­
        vide for attendance at its sessions, as a member of the Con­
         ference, of the Chief Justice of the United States Court of
        Appeals for the District of Columbia or of such other jus­
        tice of that Court as he may designate.
          For ·the Judicial Conference:
                                                   CHARLES      E. HUGHES,
                                                                 Ohief Justice.
        October 3, 1936.
