                                              .   -.•. -   '"    -}.,   -   ~.




                                                                                 119

        (


                     REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
                              SEPTEMBER SESSION,                1938.

               The Judicial Conference provided for in the Act of Con­
             gress of September 14, 1922 (U. S. Code, Title 28, sec. 218),
             convened on September 29, 1938, and continued in session
             for three days. The follo\ving judges were present in re­
             sponse to the call of the Chief Justice:
               First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge George H. Bingham.
               Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Martin T. Manton.
               Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge J. Warren Davis.
               Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker.
               Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Xenophon Hicks.
               Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans.
               Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone.
               Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Curtis D. Wilbur.
               District of Columbia, Chief Justice D. Lawrence Groner.
               The Senior Circuit Judges for the Fifth and Tenth Cir­
             cuits, Judges R:qfus E. Foster and Robert E. Lewis were un­
             able to attend, and their places were taken respectively by
             Circuit Judges Samuel H. Sibley and Orie L. Phillips.
               The Attorney General and the Solicitor General, with
             their aides, were present at the opening of the Conference.
                State of the dockets.- Number of cases begun, dis­
!   I        posed of, and pending, in the Federal District Oourts. The
             Attorney General submitted to the Conference a report of
             the condition of the'dockets of the district courts for the
             fiscal year ending June 30, 1938, as compared with the pre­
             vious fiscal year. Each Circuit Judge also presented to the
             Conference a detailed report, by districts, of the work of
             the courts in his circuit.
                The report of the Attorney General disclosed the follow­
             ing comparison of criminal and civil cases (exclusive of
             bankruptcy cases) commenced and terminated during the
             fiscal years 1937 and 1938:
120 


                                                    2
                                                      Oommenced               Termi nated
                                                     1937 1938                1937    1938
        Criminal ...................                35,369 34,099            31:',351 34,214
        Civil ......................                32,672 33,409            37,393 38,15;)
          We noted last year the decrease in the number of cases
        pending in the district courts at the close of the fiscal year,
        and the figures for the year ending June 30, 1938, show a
        further decrease, as follows:
              Pending Oases                                                  1937     1938
        Criminal cases ..................... . . . . . . . .                11,011    10,896
        United States civil cases. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12,623    11,285
        Private suits ..............................                        27,995    24,587
        Bankruptcy cases. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .   54,274    54,277

                     Total ............................ 105,903                      101,045 

          A rrearages.-Delaysin the disposition of casetS.-We
        called attention last year to the improvement that had
        been made with respect to the approximate time required
        to reach the trial of cases after joinder of issue. While in
        the fiscal year 1934 there were only 31 districts of which it
        could be said that all cases in which issue had been joined
        and which were ready:for trial could be tried not later than
        the term following the joinder of issue, it appeared last
        year that this was true of 68 of the 84 districts, exclusive
        of the District of Columbia. Substantially thp. same may
        be said this year.
           The Attorney General points out that the tabulations
        showing the minimum length of time between joinder .of
        issue and opportunity for trial do not adequately disclose
        the real state of the dockets with respect to arrearages and
        delays. The Attorney General notes the misnomer, in pre­
        vious tabulations, in describing dockets as "current"
        merely because cases can be tried at the term following join­
        der of issue. Thus, it is observed that there are many dis­
        tricts in which the trial dockets are up to date and yet liti­
        gants may have to wait from six months to a year after
        issue is joined in order to obtain trial. This is said to be
        due principally to long intervals in certain districts be­
                                                                       121

                                  3
(
    tween terms of court. And the tabulations above mentioned
    do not take into account the cases continued at the request
    of the parties or the period that is absorbed by preliminary
    proceedings before joinder of issue.
       In order to give a more adequate picture of the state of
    the dockets, the Attorney General has submitted a table-­
    now presented to the Conference for the first time--show­
    ing the status of the civil cases pending on June 30, 1938.
    From this table it appears that of the 35,872 civil cases
    pending on that date there were only 11,660 that had been
    pending for six months or less, while 24,212, or 67%, had
    been pending for six months or over; 18,017 cases, or
    50.2%, for a year or more; 11,374 cases, or 32%, for two
    years or more; 7,741 cases, or 22%, for three years or
    more; 5,910 cases, or 16%, for four years or more; and
    4,720 cases, or 13%, for five years or more.
       The Attorney General classifies the delays as being of
    three types, (1) those between the beginning of suit and
    joinder of issue, (2) those between joinder of issue and
    trial, and (3) those in the disposition of matters that have
    been submitted to the court. The Attorney General feels·
    justified in expecting that the first sort of delay will be sub­
    stantially reduced as a result of the adoption of the new
    Rules of Civil Procedure which went into effect on Sep­
    tember 16, 1938. So :far as the second and third types of
    delay have been due to congestion of dockets and the bur­
    den imposed upon judges they may be considerably reme­
    died by the increase of judicial personnel. In the District
    of Columbia it is believed that through the provision for
    additional judges the large arrearages may be very con- .
    siderably reduced during the ensuing year and soon after
    may be completely disposed of.
       The Conference has carefully considered the tabulations
     furnished by the Attorney General and fully appreciates
     the importance of adequate statistics upon this 1>ubject.
     The Conference is in entire agreement with the view that
     the new Rules of Civil Procedure, through a required sim­
     plification of practice, will diminish the delays that have
122 


                                      4
        heretofore occurred. The provision of Rule 16 for pre-trial
        procedure should have a most salutary effect. Under this
        Rule the district court may direct the attorneys for the
        parties to appear before it for a conference to consider (1)
        the simplification of the issues, (2) the necessity or desir­
        ability of amendments to the pleadings, (3) the possibility
        of obtaining admissions of fact and of documents which
        will avoid unnecessary proof, "(4) the limitation of the num­
        ber of expert witnesses, (5) the advisability of a preliminary
        reference of issues to a master for findings to be used as
        evidence when the trial is to be by jury, and (6) such other
        matters as may aid in the disposition of the action. The
        court is to make an order reciting the action taken by the
        conference and may establish a pre-trial calendar. Al­
        though this rule has been in effect for a very short time it
        has already been applied in at least one district with ap­
        parent success. If the District Judges avail themselves of
        this opportunity, and proceed in the manner contemplated,
        there is every reason to believe that the speedy and appro­
        priate disposition of cases will be greatly facilitated. The
        real points at issue may be ascertained at an early stage of
        the litigation and arrangements be made to avoid all delays
        for unsubstantial reasons.
           In considering the statistics with respect to the aceumula­
        tioR of pending cases, attention was direeted in the Con­
        ference to some of the reasons why cases remain on dock­
        ets for a year or more. Thus, cases may be held to await a
        decision in some other jurisdiction, which would make a
        trial unnecessary or affect the rights involved, or to await
        the result of negotiations for settlement; foreclosure suits
        may be suspended by moratorium or redemption statutes;
        the litigation may be ancillary to that in another jurisdic­
        tion or may be held in abeyance because of baul,-uptcy or
        reorganization proceedings, or because of an injunction
        restraining parties from proceeding; cases may have been
        appealed and sent back for another trial; or, as frequently
        occurs, the continuances are by consent of counsel.
                                                                123 

                             5

   How important it is to analyze statistics in order to as­
certain the exact circumstances of the cases to which they
relate may be illustrated by the situation in one of the dis­
tricts to which attention was directed in connection with
the submitted table. It should be noted that as soon as this
table was received (shortly before the meeting of the Con­
farence) inquiries were made in certain instances in order
to ascertain the reasons for the disclosed delays. The in­
stance just referred to was that of the Western District
of Missouri, where the table showed that out of 411 pending
cases there were 240 which had been pending for more than
a year and of these 168 cases had been pending for more
than five years. On inquiry it appeared that of those last
mentioned there were 140 cases involving certain insurance
rates fixed by the state authority where it had seemed neces­
sary for many separate suits to be brought. The cases were
before a three-judge court and common principles of. law
governed all. After the merits had been finally disposed
of by settlement, the mere administrative work of the dis­
tribution to a host of persons in interest under insurance
policies of the huge fund accumulated under order of the .
court has required considerable time. It is understood that
thousands of checks are being sent out monthly a'nd the dis­
tribution is being made as rapidly as possible. With re­
spect to the same district, other expla~tions were given to.
account for the"delays in the remaining cases shown by the
table.
   While it is thus highly important, in order to appreciate
the true significance of statistics as to the number of pend­
ing cases, to know their nature and the precise reasons for
holding them on the docket, it is still believed to be true
that there is a very large accumulation of cases which en­
cumber the dockets and should have been disposed of long
ago. The Senior Circuit Judges will take up this matter
with the District Judges in their respective circuits. One
remedy immediately at hand, which has proved effective
 in many jurisdictions, is to have the entire docket called
124 

                                         6

        at reasonable intervals so that the "dead wood" on the
        docket may be removed and the cases that are expected to
        be tried shall be brought to a speedy determination. Fur­
        ther, cases should not be kept on the docket for an inor­
        dinate time merely on the consent of counsel and in the ab­
        sence of substantial reasons. The Conference adopted the
        following resolution:
                  " Resol ved that it is the sense of the Conference:
                  1. That there should be a complete call of the docket
            at least once every six months in each judicial district
            or in each division of a district where there are .di­
            visions.
               2. That the provisions of the pre-trial procedure
            provided by Rule 16 should be followed as far as prac­
            ticable in connection with such call.
            I

               3. That reports as to such call of the docket should
            be made annually to the Senior Circuit Judge.
               4. That where calls of the docket are not made by the
            judge of the district, the Senior Circuit Judge should
            assign some other judge to the district to perform that
            service. "

          Additional judges required.- The Attorney General
        justly emphasized the importance of having a sufficient
        number of judges to dispose of the judicial work and has
        pointed to the relatively small amount that is expended by
        the Government in the maintenance of the Judicial De­
        partment.
               Provision for circuit judges.-The Conference in
        1937 recommended that provision be made for additional
        circuit judges as follows:
                1 additional circuit judge for the Second Circuit j
                1 additional circuit judge for the Fifth Circuit j
                1 additional circuit judge for the Sixth Circuit;
                1 additional circuit judge for the Seventh Circuit.
          Congress provided for those judgeships and also for an
        additional associate justice for the Court of Appeals for
                               7

the District of Columbia and removed a restriction against
the filling of a vacancy when it occurs in the office of circuit
judge for the Third Circuit.
   The reports of the Senior Circuit Judges show that in
general the Circuit Courts of Appeals are up with their
work. No additional judges are required in seven of the
circuits or in the Court of Appeals for the District of Co­
lumbia. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Cir­
cuit has a large accumulation of cases and it is apparent
that in order to secure the prompt disposition· of its work
an additional judge will be needed even after the existing
vacancy is filled. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit has kept up with its work through the as­
sistanee of district judges. The latter, however, are needed
in the district courts. There is an existing vacancy but still
another judge is required. Again, the Circuit Court of Ap­
peals for the Eighth Circuit has been able to keep abreast of
its work only through the aid of retired judges. It now ap­
pears that dependence can not be placed upon their con­
tinued ability to render this service and provision should
be made for two additional circuit judges there.
   Accordingly, t~e Conference recommends that there
should be provisio!l for one additional circuit judge in each
of the Sixth and Seventh Circuits and for two additional
circuit judges in the Eighth Circuit.
        Provision for district judges.-In 1937 the Confer­
ence recommended that additional district judges be pro­
vided as follo\vs:
    1 additional district judge for the Northern District    of
      Georgia;
    1 additional district judge for the Eastern District      of
      Louisiana;
    1 additional district judge for the Western District      of
      Louisiana;
    1 additional district judge for the Southern District    of
      Texas;
126 


                                     8
            1 additional district judge for the Eastern District of
               Michigan;
            1 additional district judge for the Northern District of
               Ohio;
            ladditional district judge for the Western District of
               Wasbington;
            1 additional district judge for the Southern District of
               California;
            1 additional district judge for the District of Kansas;
            3 additional district judges for the District of Columbia.
           Accordingly Congress made this provision except in three
        instances: the Northern District of Georgia t the NQrthern
        District of Ohio, and the District of Kansas. Other addi­
        tional judgeships were created by Congress as follows:
            1 additional district judge for the Northern District of
              Alabama, with the proviso that no successor shall be
              appointed to the present senior judge.
            1 additional district judge for the Northern District of
              lllinois.
            1 additional district judge for the Western District of
              Virginia.
            1 additional district judge for the Northern District of
              California.
            1 additional district judge for the Southern District of
              N ew York, with the provi·so that the first vacancy
              occurring in that District shall not be filled.
            1 additional district judge for the District of Massachu­
               setts, with the pro'\iso that the first vacancy occur­
               ring in that District shall not be filled.
            1 additional district judge for the Eastern and Western
               Districts of Arkansas.
            1 additional district judge for the Eastern and Middle
               Districts of Tennesseet with the proviso that no suc­
               cessor shall be appointed.
          Congress also made permanent a temporary judgeship
        for the District of Montana, and removed the prohibitioll
                                                                  127 

                               9


  against the filling of a vacancy when it occurs in the office
  of district judge for the Eastern District of PeD:Il8ylvania.
     The Conference gave close CDnsideratiDn to' the extent Df
  the need for still more district judges, having regard to the
  volume and character of the work in the districts and the
  need for the prDmpt disposition of eases. The Conference
  tenews its recommendations for additional judges for the
  NDrthern District of Georgia and for the District of Kansas.
  Despite the relief already afforded in the Southern District
  Df CalifDrnia and the SDuthern District of New York, fur­
  ther judicial assistance is necessary in view Df the heavy
  dockets in those districts. In the Southern District of New
  York there has been reliance upon the assistance furnished
  through the assignment of judges from other circuits, but
  inquiry shows that it is impracticable to obtain this relief
  to' the extent lleeded. Other increases are found to' be ad­
  visable in the District of New Jersey, the Eastern District
  of Pennsylvania, the Eastern District of Missouri, and the
. Western District of Oklahoma.
     Including the recommendations made last year and now
  renewed, the Conference therefDre recommends that addi­
  tiDnal district judges be provided as follows:
     2 additional district judges fDr the SDuthern District of
       New York;
     1 additional district judge for the District Df New
       Jersey;
     1 additional district judge fDr the Eastern District of
       Pennsylyania; .
     1 additional district judge for the Northern District of
       Georgia;
     1 additional district judge for the Eastern District of
        Missouri;
     1 additional district judge for the Southern District Df
        California;
     1 additional district judge for the Western District of
        Oklahoma;
     1 additional district judge for the District of Kansas.
128 

                                      10 


           Court rules.-The adoption of the Rules of Civil Pro­
        cedure necessitates changes in the rules of the respective
        Circuit Courts of Appeals and the District Courts. With re­
        spect to the Circuit Courts of Appeals, while each cireuit
        may adopt such rules as are found to be immediately neces­
        sary to conform to the new' procedure, it is the sense of the
        Conference that the rules should be made as uniform as
        practicable and to this end the rules adopted in each circuit
        should be at once communicated to all the other Senior Cir­
        cuit Judges. The Conference appointed a committee which,
        011 reviewing the rules of the several circuits, will undertake
        to make recommendations in order to secure the desired
        uniformity. This committee is composed of Circuit Judges
        Parker, Hicks, Wilbur, and Phillips.
           The Attorney General has called attention to the im­
        portance of simplifying the procedure in the conduct of
        eases in the Circuit Courts of Appeals other. than those com­
        ing from District Courts. The Attorney General has offered
        his assistance in securing uniform and appropriate proced­
        ure in such cases and the committee appointed. by the Con­
        ference to deal with the subject of rules, as above noted,
        will collaborate with the Attorney General for this purpose.
           In the amendment of the rules of the respective District
        Courts it is important that regard should be had to sim­
        plicity. It is the sense of the Conference that these rules
        should be made in the spirit ,vhich has governed the adop­
        tion of the new procedure; the rules should be few, simple
        and free from unnecessary technicalities. The Senior Cir­
        cuit Judges will communicate with the District Judges in
        their respective circuits to secure uniformity of rules
        within the circuit and the Conference appointed a commit­
        tee of District Judges which will examine the various dis­
        trict rules and make recommendations so that the greatest
        practicable degree of unifonnity throughout the country
        may be secured. This committee is composed of District
        .Judge John C. Knox of the Southern District of New York,
        District Judge William P. James of the Southern District
                                                                  129
                              11 


of California, and District Judge Robert C. Baltzell of the
Southern District of Indiana.

  The revised Bankruptcy Act.-Rules will also be required
to meet the provisions of this Act. It is understood that
the Supreme Court ,viII in the near future promulgate its
mnended General Orders and forms, in th~ light of which
local rules may be formulated.
   The Attorney General, in accordance with the request of
the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
informed the Conference that the Commission was ready to
perform the duties which the new Act imposed upon it and
desired to assist the courts in. every possible way in the pro­
tection of the rights of security holders. The Attorney
General also stated that he had issued a circular of instruc­
tions to the United States Attorneys calling their attention
to the duties which the Act imposed upon them.
   Boundaries of judicial circuits and districts.-At the last
Conference a committee was appointed to cooperate with
the committees of the Senate and the House of Representa­
tives, respectively, which have been appointed to study the
organization and operation of federal courts. It has been
thought probable that the boundaries of existing circuits
and districts would become the subject of consideration.
The committee appointed by the Conference to deal with
this subject has been continued.

  Number of judges on the Oircuit Oourts of Appeals.-The
Conference recommended that ~ 212 of Title 28 of the
United States Code should be amended so that, in a circuit
where there are more than three circuit judges, the ma­
jority of the circuit judges may be able to provide for a
court of more than three judges when in their opinion un­
usual circumstances make such action advisable.

  Improvements in budgetary practice and in the super­
vision of the administration of justice in the Federal
130 

                                      12 


        Courts.-The Attorney General directed attention to the
        bill introduced at the last session of Congress (S.· 3212)
        for the establishment of an administrative office of the
        United States courts and, while not objecting to modifica­
        tions and improvements, the Attorney General strongly en­
        dorsed the objectives of the measure in the hope that these
        might have the approval of the Conference.
           One of these objectives is to give the courts the power of
        managing their own business affairs and to that extent to
        relieve the Department of Justice of that responsibility.
        The Attorney General thought it bad in principle and prac­
        tice that the chief litigant before the courts should have
        the control of the financing, the budget, the accounting and
        all the other details which are so intimately a part of the ju­
        dicial administration.
           Another objective is to secure an improved supervision
        of the work of the courts through an organization under
        judicial control. These objectives, as well as the provisions
        of the bill in question, were fully discussed in the Confer­
        ence. In order to attain the desired ends, and to meet such
        objections as had been urged to the pending measure, the
        Conference provided for the appointment of a committee
        to prepare a recommendation, subject to the approval of the
        Conference, "having in view the incorporation of the pro­
        visions of the present bill looking to the transfer of the bud­
        get from the Department of Justice to the administration
        of the courts by some proper means, and, likewise, embrac­
        ing a provision looking toward the establishment of J u­
        dioial Councils or some other like method within the sev­
        eral circuits and the District of Columbia for the control
        and improvement of the administration of justice therein. "
        This work on behalf of the Conference is to be prosecuted
        in collaboration with the Attorney General. The commit­
        tee is also authorized to submit any recommendations that
        are cognate to the matters above mentioned.
           This committee is composed of Chief Justice Groner of
        the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Co­
"   • • • ,a   J.,                              , .......   -~--




                                      13 

lumbia, and Senior Circuit Judges Manton, Parker, Evans
and Stone.

  Appropriation for laU' clerks.-The Conference recom­
mended that the Congress fix the sum of not more than
$3,000 per annum as the amount that may be paid to law
clerks of circuit judges. The Conference also recommended
that an appropriation be made for the salaries of law
clerks of district judges in accordance with the statute
where the appointment of such clerks is approved by the
Senior Circuit Judge.
  Disparity of sentences in criminal cases.-The Attoroey
General presented the subject of the disparity between sen­
tences imposed in different districts by different judges for
practically the same offense committed under similar cir­
cumstances. Apart from the apparent failure to administer
equal and exact justice in such cases the Attorney General
called attention to the disciplinary problem that was thus
created for the Federal Bureau of Prisons. No particular
recommendation was submitted but the study which had
been undertaken in the Department of Justice was made
available to the Conference. The Conference considered
the subject and the obvious difficulties that are involved in
suggesting a remedy. The Conference recommended that
the Senior Circuit Judge in each circuit should make the
subject a matter of careful consideration in consultation
with district judges so that the disparity in sentences should
be removed so far as practicable and welcomed the aid of
the Department of Justice in this endeavor.

  Counsel for indigent defendants.-The Conference re­
newed its recommendation of last year upon this subject,
as follows:
                  "We approve in principle the appointment of a Pub­
               lic Defender where the amount of criminal business of
               a district court justifies the appointment. In other
1   .....)

                                          14
                 districts the district judge before whom a criminal case
                 is pending should appoint counsel for indigent de­
                 fendants unless such assistance is declined by the de­
                 fendant. In exceptional cases involving a great amount
                 of time and effort on the part of counsel so assigned,
                 suitable provision should he made for compensation for      I;
                 such service, to be fixed by the court and to be a charge   Ii

                                                                             I
                 against the United States."
               The Conference adjourned subject to the call of the Chief
             Justice.
               For the Judicial Conference:

                                               CHARLES   E. HUGHES,
                                                           CkiefJustice.
             October 1, 1938.
