      REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
                        OCTOBER SESSION, 1940


  The ,Judicial Conference, pursuant to the act of Congress of
September 14, 1922, as amended (U. S. Code, Title 28, sec. 218),
convened on October 1, 1940, and continued in session for 4 days.
The following judges were present in response to the call of the Chief
.Tusticc:
     First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Calvert Magruder. 

     Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Learned HamI. 

     Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John Biggs, Jr. 

     Fourth Circnit, Senior Circuit Judge John J. Parker. 

     Fifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Rufus E. Foster. 

     Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Xenophon Hicks. 

     Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans. 

     Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone. 

     Ninth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Curtis D. Wilbur. 

     Tenth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips. 

     District of Columbia, Chief Justice D. Lawrence Groner. 

   The Attorney General and the Solicitor General, with their aides,
were present at the opening of the Conference. The Director of the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts, Henry P. Chandler,
the Assistant Director, Elmore Whitehurst, the Chief of the Division
of Procedural Studies and Statistics, Will Shafroth, and other mem­
bers of the staff of the Administrative Office were in attendance.
   By the enactment of the Administrative Office Act, the duty of
preparing a report of the state of business of the Federal courts was
lodged with the Director of the Administrative Office. Accordingly,
the Department of Justice did not undertake to furnish the statistical
data which in previous years it had prepared for the Conference.
   The Attorney General addressed the Conference with respect to
various matters of importance, emphasizing the effect of the national
defense program on the work of the courts. .He foresaw a greatly
increased burden on the courts arising from the enforcement of the
Selective Service Act, the Alien Registration Act, and the Espionage
Act, and from condemnation cases, applications for naturalization,
and deportation problems. The Attorney General referred to the
difficulties arising from a disparity in sen tences in criminal cases,
stating that a :Federal indeterminate sentence law would be desirable,
and he also stressed the importance of the recent act conferring au­
                                    (1)
                                   2

thority upon the Supreme Court to prescribe rules for plending, prac­
tice, and procedure in criminal cases prior to and including verdict.
  The adm·inistration (d the United States courts-Report oj the Direc­
tor.-The Dirpetor submittcd to the Conference a comprehensh'e
report containing a review of the organization and activities of the
Administrative Office and elaborate statistical data with respect to
the work of tlHl courts.
   The Administrative Office of the United States Courts was created
by the Act of August 7, 1939 (53 Stat. 1223; U. S. Code, Title 28,
§§ 444-450). The act took effed by its terms on November 6, 1939,
and the Director qualified and took office on December 1, 1939. '1'11e
organization and business of the office were conducted from its incep­
tion under the supervision of an advisory comlllittee of the Conference,
and at a special session called on January 22, 1940, the Conference
itself considered and acted upon particular matters deemed to demand
its attention.
   The Administrative Office has thus been in existence for somewhat
     than a year, but in that time its organization and the general lines
of its activities have been determined, and the results in assistanc!' to
the Federal courts are beginning to appear. Corresponding with the
principal aims of the act, the Office has two main divisions: A Division
of Business Administration, the function of which it. is to provide the
eourts with their material needs in the way of quarters, supplies, nnd
clerical and administrative service as smoothly and promptly as
possible; and a Division of Procedural Studies and Statistics designed
to furnish to the courts accurate current information concerning the
state of the judicial business and to make recommendations from time
to time looking toward increased efficiency and expedition. Besides
these two divisions there has been since July 1, 1940, a small staff
exercising a generaJ supervision of the Federal probation system
previously conduded by the Bureau of Prisons of the Department of
Justice.
   '1'hrough the cooperation of the Department of ,Tustice and par­
ticularly of its Administrative Division which continued to perform
its functions in relation to the Federal courts until the Administrative
Office was well prepared to take them over, the transfer of duties was
effected gradually and without interruption. The staff of the Adminis­
trative Office is now "Til developed and reports from the judges
indicate general satisfaction with the way in which the business
matters of the courts arc handled. Act.ion upon requests for supplies
or service is always and necessarily conditioned upon the st,ate of the
appropriations. But the Administrntive Office is making it a policy
to give prompt attention to requests, to treat all upon an equal basis
according to e.xisting condit.ions, and when it cannot act favorably
to explain its reasons.
                                    3

    In its investigation and l'pports upon the dockets, functions dis­
 charged by the Division of Procedural Studies and Statistics, the
Administrat.ive Office has been helpful in giving to the courts trust­
 worthy information and in suggesting methods of overcoming con­
gestion. This it has done by making the statistics more informative
 and by familiarizing itself with the special problems in particular
 districts through observation on the ground and interviews with
 judges, clerks, and others concerned.
    Perhaps the outstanding advance made by the Administrative
Office in the mattpr of judicial statistics is in the differentiation of
 cases undisposed of for periods longer than 6 months according to the
reasons for that condition. Heretofore the total numbers of such
 cases have been shown. The judges have known that a large pro­
 portion were delayed for other reasons than the inability of the courts
 to hear them, but they had only dICir general unverified opinion for
 this fact because the sta,tistics did not show the reasons for the delay.
 N mv these reasons are shown,
     In eivil cases, the reasons are, on the one hand, those which point
 to r'oul inability of the courts to handle all of their business, SHch as
 inability to I'(~ach the Ct1Ses or that no I.eI'm of court was held in the
 division since the cases were at issue, and, on the other hand, reasons'
 indicating that the courts were not responsible for the delays,sn'Ch as
continuances upon the request of the parties, the nature of the par­
ticular proceedings such as receiverships, ete., and continuances to
permit the determination of test cases, In criminal cases likewise
 there are reasons which go to the inability of the courts to meet fully
 the demands upon them, such I:1S inability to reach the cases, or that
no court had been held in the division sinee the indictment, and other
reasons for which the courts are not responsible, such as that in fact
the d<'fendants are fugitives and luwe not been brought within the
.i urisdict.ion of the court or that the defendants are serving sentences
on othC'I' charges. It is recogllized that information in regard to the
rc'usons for the pendency of cases beyond specified periods, gathered
as it is by the clerks from such sources as are available, may Hot
always be entirely accurate. Nevertheless it throws new light upon
the actual extent of congestion in the Federa.l courts and indicates
that congestion is less than it is generally considered to be.
    Another inquiry that the Administrative Office has regularly been
making under the direction of the Conference is with respect to cases
held under advisement by judges more than 30 days after submission .
•Judges are asked at quarterly intervals to report the number of such
cases held more than 30 and less than 60 days, and the number held
mort' than 60 days, with such explanation as they may wish to give
in reference to the latter. This information, with other facts gathered
by the Administrative Office, is transmitted to the senior circuit
                                         4

judge of the circuit who in turn reports it to the circuit council con­
sisting of all the circuit judges of the circult. The council, which
by the act creating the Administrative Office is authorizcd to toJee
such action upon the information before it as may be necessary,
uses the data to determine what assignments of the distriet judges
in the eircuit for the ensuing period will be the most effective, and
whether there is occasion to call for aid from another circuit. The
act makes it the duty of the district judges promptly to earry out
the directions of the council as to the administration of the business
of their respective courts.
   In order to obtain additional information with respect to references
to masters, the Conference adopted a, resolution, following a recom­
mendation of thc Director, that a, proposed forID of questionnaire
to clerks and judges as to references to masters be approved. The
form of questionnaire thus authorized is as follows:
To TUE CLERKS:
  A list of all references to masters, except ill bankruptcy cases, during the pre­
ceding quarter of the fiscal year, with the title of the ca:oc referred, the date of
the order of reference, a short statement of the nature of the reference, and
the date when the master's report was filed, if such report has been filed.
To TUE   JUDGES:
  The titles, docket numbers, and datcs of the orders of reference in all cases,
except bankruptcy cases, where references have been made to masters in which
the master's report had not been filed on October 1, 1940, and in which, on
that date, the order of reference was more than 90 days old, with any comment
as to the nature of the reference or the reason for its nondisposition which you
may wish to include. This request may be fulfilled by simply forwarding to
this office a duplicate copy of a report to you from the master.
   Under the Administrative Office Act, judicial couneils and con­
ferences have been held in the circuits during the past year for the
first time ,,,-ith statutory authority. The circuit councils supply a
directing power from the circuit judges ",ithin the circuit who are
acquainted with local conditions and yet are in a position to see the
district courts in their relation to the judicial system of which they
are part. The circuit conferences give opportunity for the Federal
judges (sometimes with the presence of judges of State courts) and
members of the bar to discuss matters with reference to the practice
of the Federal cOlirts that may affect the interests of the communities
in the particular circuits.
   The general supervision of the Federal probation system falls to
the Administrative Office because the probation officers are appointed
by and serve under the several district courts. Part of the work of
the Federal probation officers continues to be the supervision of Fed­
eral prisoners on parole and conditional release. In this part of their
work these officers continue to be responsible to the Bureau of Prisons
of the Department of Justice. Frequent conferences between the
                                    5


probatiDn staff 'Of the Administrative Office and the parDle staff 'Of
the Bureau 'Of PrisDns are aVDiding any untDward effects 'Of the divided
respDnsibility and are permitting prDbatiDn and parDle pDlicies tD
remain cDordina,ted.
   The annual repDrt 'Of the Director discloses in mDre detail the 'Or­
ganization and development of the Administrative Office. The
Conference directed that the report be printed and filed with the
Congress and the Attorney General as a public document, that it be
distributed to bar associations, State libraries, libraries of the highest
court of each State and accredited law schools, and that it be released
to the public at the same time as this report.
   State oj the dockets-Number oj cases begun, disposed qt, and pending
in the Federal district C01Lrts.-The Director's arulUal report contains
statistics f'Or the fiscal year ended June 30, 1940, as compared with
previous fiscal years. Each senior circuit judge also presented to the
Conference reports and comments OIl the statistics submitted by the
Director with respect to the work of both district and circuit courts in
his circuit.
   The Direetor's report shows a decrease in the number of civil cases
pending in district courts on June 30, 1940. This diminution con­
tinues the trend noted by the Conference in its annual reports since
1932. It is the result of inroads upon the accumulation of pending
cases rather than to any recent lessening of the amount of new busi­
ness, as will be seen from the following schedule of civil Cases com­
menced, terminated, and pending in the district courts (exclusive of
the Canal Zone and the Virgin Islands) during the fiscal yei1rS 1937,
1938, 1939, and 1940:

                     Year                     Commenced      Terminated   Pending

1937 __                                           32,672                     40. G18
JU38 __                                           33,409                     3.1;872
1939____ _                                        33,531                     31.940
1940. __                                          :!4.2:l0                   29,259



   There has been no marked trend t.oward a decrease in the number
of criminal cases pending in district courts at the end of recent years,
that is, from 1934 to 1940, but the matter is not of immediate im­
portance, since, as the Director's report discloses, in each year the total
number of such cases has amounted only to about one-third or one­
quarter of the number filed. In 1940 this proportion was 28.7
percent. This situation compares favorably with that on the civil
side of the docket, where during recent years the number of cases
pending at the end of each year has varied from 148 percent to 85.6
percent of the number filed. The low proportiDn 'Of 85.6 percent was
reached this year.
                                    6

   There has been ull increasp (j£ 1,580 in the nurnIH'T' of bankrupt(·y
proceedings instituted in 1940 as "mnpared \vith 19;m, and un almost
exactly corresponding iner'east' of Cflses p:-rHling on .J tlUP :10, 1940.
   As the comprehensive tnhulul' data submiLt('d hy the DiTedor ill'!,
found in his published report, it is deemed llllU(,CNxSttJ'Y to attempt to
epitomize them here.
   Arrea.rages--Delaysin the disposition of ca.~e8--Ad(rai()nal j1tciges.-­
The report of the Director discloses that of the eases pending on June
30, 1940, only a small number can be consid('l'pd gelluint'ly ill arrears.
Thus, in the districts other than the District of Oolumbia, only about
one-third of the cases pending on July 1, 1940, had been at issue for
more than 6 months, and of the eases in this category only about ono­
sixth eould be classified as rt'maining on the doeket because the court
has been unable to reach them. In the District Oourt for the District
of Oolumbia, notable gains have been made during the past year in
clearing up a highly congested cftlendar, and the Director reports that
if a similar degree of progress is made during the next year, the
docket will soon become current. :Vluch of that reduction has been
occasioned by an intelligent and skillful use of the pretrial pl'Ocedure
permitted by the Rules of Oivil Procedure.
   Last year, the report of the Attorney General to the Oonference
indieated an increase in arrearages in the District of Oolumbia, the
southern distriet of New York, and the western district of vVashington.
As stated, the congestion in the District of Oolumbia is being remedied,
but in the other two districts it continues to increase. In the western
district of vVashington, the continued increase seems to be the tem­
pomry result of a vacancy in the office of district judge, but the situa­
tion in the southern district of N (Wi York cannot so easily be explained.
After gi\~ing consideration to the report of til(' Director and the state­
ments of the scnior circuit judge for the Second Oircuit, it was resolved
tha,t the Oonference recommend that provision be made for at least one
additional district judge in the southt'I'Tl district of New York, in
addition to those provided for by recent acts of Oongress.
   The report of the Director and the staU-ment of the senior circuit
judge for the Sixth Oircuit showed that thl'rp is substantial congestion
in the northern district of Ohio. Last year the Oonference recom­
mended that provision be made for an additional district judge in
that district and now renews that recommendation. It likewise
renews its recommendation that all additionnl district judge should
be provided for the eastern district of :\Iissouri.
   In 1939, the Oonference was abl(· to report the substantial (lisap­
pearance of the congestion which lwd previously existed in the district.
of Massachusetts. Although that congestion has not reappeared,
the Conference decided, after consideration of the report of the senior
circuit judge, that there should not be in the near future any reduction
                                         7
in the number of district judges in that district. Aceordingly, the
Conference now recommends the repeal of so much of section 4v of
Title 28 of the U. S. Code as provides that the first vacancy oceurring
in the office of district judge for the district of ~Iassachusetts shall
not be filled.
   Circuit courts oj appeals.-As in recent years the Conference reports
that in general the dockets of the courts of appeals are current.
Progress is being made in reducing the accumulation of cases in the
Sixth Circuit, to which we have heretofore referred, and it is thought
that there will be a further reduction as a result of the appointment
of the additional circuit judge for which th!} Congress has providC'd.
X 0 recommendation for additional circuit judges is made at this time.
  The Conference renews its recommendation that section 212 of
Title 28 of the U. S. Code be amended so that, in a circuit where
there i1re more than three circuit judges, the majority of the circuit
judges may be able to provide for a court of more than thrce judges
when in their opinion unusual circumstances make such action
R,dvisable.
   Estimates.-Pursuant to the Administrative Office Aet, the Din:-c­
tor submitted to the Conference estimates of the expenditures and
appropriations necessary for the maintenance of the United States
courts and the Administrative Office for the fiscal yea,r 1942. The
Conferenee approved those estimates, with the following exceptions:
   1. vVith respect to the proposod form for that portion of the 1!H2
Appropriation Act dealing with "Miscellaneous sltlf1rie~, United
States courts," the Conference resolved that, in lieu of the first two
provisos in the form submitted, there should be inserted the following
proviso:
   Provided, That the compensation of secretaries and law clerks of circuit aud
district judges shall be fixed by the Director of the Admillistrative Office of the
United States Courts in accordance with the compensation schedules of the
Classification Act of 1923 (as amended), judges' secretaries being elassified in
the senior clerical grade alld la..." elerks in the prillcipal subprofessional grade,
And that the last proviso in that form should be amended so as to
read:
  Prov1'ded further, That not to exceed three law clerks to district judges shall
be appointed in allY one Circuit.
   2. In order to cover the above changes, the Conference resolved
that there should be un addition to the estimates for ":tYlisceHaneous
salaries, United States courts," in the amount of $30,000, and a
further amount suffieient to provide for three lu,w clerks for district
judges in each circuit instead of two as now authorized.
   3. With respect to the estimate for "Probation system, United
States courts," the Conference recommended that there should be no
                                         8

proVlslOn in the 1942 Appropriation Act limiting tho maXmllll1l
salaries of probation officers to 83,200.
   Further, with respect to the proposal in the estirnatt's for the transfer
of the item covering tllt' salaries of librarians from the t'stimato for
"Miscellaneous salaries, United Statos courts" (,,,here it appeared
for the fiscal year 1941), to "Salaries and expenSl'S of derks, United
States courts," the Conf('ronce resolved:
  That by the approval of this item it is !lot intended to put librarians nnder the
control or direction of the clerks or to make the clerks responsible for librarians,
exoopt where that is d'one with the approval of the Senior Circuit Judge of the
Circuit.
     Deficiency appropr"iation.-The Confe1'Pllce nuthorizl'd tlw Director
to seek tl deficiency appropriation for thl' fiscal yelll' 1941 in the amount
of 860,000 to cover the cost of supplying the new "Lifetime" Fl'cit'ral
Digest to the libraries of all tho eircuit courts of appeals and to those
circuit am! district judges who require it. It was the SOllse of the
Conference that each senior cil'euit judge should make a survey of the
need for this digest in his circuit and inform the Director of the result
to the end that there may be no unnecessary duplication in its dis­
tribution.
     Library funds.·~ With rt'speet to the practice of using admission
fl'l'S for the maintenance and development of the libraries of vllrious
circuit eGnrts of appeals, the Conference ndopted the following
resolution:
   That it is the sense of the Conference that the fees and moneys received by the
clerks of the circuit courts of appeals are fixed and limited by the order of the
Supreme Court of the United States entered February 19, 1897 (168 U. S. 720;
Sec..543, Title 28, U. S. Code Annotated, p. 221), and that amounts received by
clerks, librarians, or other persons as trustees for library funds under rules of the
circuit courts of appeals from attorneys on admission to a court of appeals are not
fees and other moneys rcceived by the clerks by virtuc of their office and are not
coverable into the Treasury of the United States under scetion 544 of Title 28
of the United States Code.
    Traveling and 8iLbsistence e:rpenses.-\Vith respect to l'eimbursempnt
fol' traveling and sllbsistenee expenses ineUlTPd while attending court
or transacting otlH'1' official business at any place othpr than a judgp's
officilll place of residence, as providNi by section 259 of the Judicinl
Code (U. S. Code, Title 28, § 374), which defines "official place of
residence" as "that place nearest his actual residence at which either
a circuit, court of appeals or a district court is 1'egulnrly held," it ,vas
declared to be the sellse of the Conferenee that mere legal domicile is
1I0t sufficient to satisfy the vmrds of the statute, (( actual residence."
   \Vith respect to tIw qu('stion of daims for reimbursl'ment undpr tbe
act of April 22, 1940 (.54 Stat. 149) in pxcess of the amounts provided
for by preexisting legislation, thc Conference~ adopted the following
resolution:
                                        9


  That in view of the circumstances connected ",,1th the passage of the act and the
understanding of the Bureau of the Budget, it is the sense of the Conference that
no claim should be made for subsistence prior to the date of the approval of the
act in excess of the amount allowed under prior legislation.
   It was the sense of the Conference that the rate of reimburscment
for tmvcling and subsistence expenses of judges of the United StatC's
Cust,oms Court and the Court of Claims holding court, or traveling
on official business away from their official places of rC'sidence should
be made equal to the rate applicable in the case of circuit and district
judges.
   Oourt reporter8.-At the September 19:39 sf:'ssion of thC' Conference,
the subject of the compensntion of court reporters was referred to the
Director to the end that as soon as practicable after his appointment
he should prepare recommendations for the considerat,ion of the Con­
fC'rence. The Director has now submitted a careful and exhaustive
report on this matter. In general, the report indicates that practices
with respect t,o court reporting vary so widely that no all-inclusive
recommendation is desirable at this time. It was, however, the sense
of the Conference that the district courts should avail themselves
of the authority provided by Rule 80 (b) of the Rules of Civil Pro­
cedure in ordm' to make adequate provision for court reporting at
reasonable cost; that the practice of letting contracts for court report-
     upon a competitive bidding basis has obvious disadvantages in
view of the confidential and skilled service of the reporter and the
tendency to reduce the quality of that service to the minimum in
ordt'r to meet a bid; that in relatively rural districts ,vhere private
reporters arc not readily available, it is advantageous to hav!', an
official reporter attached to the court; and that if an official reporter
is appointed in any court, he should be             to serve all litigants,
public and private alike, upon equal terms. The ConfC'l'encc ap­
pointed a committee consisting of Judges Parker, Hicks, and.Phillips
to       further consideration, in conjunction with the DirC'rtor, to the
matter of the appointment of official report,ers.
   Probation 8y8tem.-~The report of the Director contains statistics
and a brief study of probation in thl' Fecll'rnl courts. It shows ill
general tha,t the IlumbC'r of persons being placed on prohation is
increasing, with a consequent increase in tlw burdl'll l'l'stillg upon
probation officers. On June :30, 1940, there was an average case load
of 148 cases per officer, and although that average has been somewhat
reduced since 1939 by the appointmPTlt of additional officers, it is still
far too high in the light of the responsibility devolving upon the
individual offieN. It ,>,ms declared to be the sense of the Conference
that in view of the responsibility and volume of their work, probation
officers should be appointed solely on the basis of merit without regard
      272830-4{)--2
                                         10 


to political considerations; and that tnulllllg, pxperiellce, and traits of
character appropriate to the specialized work of a probation office!'
should in every instance be deemed essential qualifications. It was to
this end that the Conference, in considering tlw estimates, resolv('(1
that the maximum limit of $3,200 per year for salarips of probation
officers should be removed, in order not to close the door to ~dvan('('­
mE'nt in the service.
   ~With respect to the provision for transportation of probationers
from the court convicting them to the place where tbe probatiOlll'r is
required to proceed in accordance with the terms of the court's order,
the Conference approved in principle section 3 of Senate Hill 1875,
Seventy-sixth Congress, third session, with a limitation to cases where
the probationer is indigent or otherwise unable to pay his own tmvd
and subsistence expenses.
   Pederalindeterrninate sentence law.-~At its 1939 session the Con­
ferf'nce appointed a committee composed of .J udges Learned Hand,
Evans, and Wilbur to consider and report upon the advisability of an
indeterminate sentence law for the Federal courts, and also of con­
fE'rring upon circuit courts of appeals the power to increase or reduce
sentences. After considering the recommendation of til(' Attorney
General and the report of the committee, the Conference adopted the
following resolution:
   That the Conference favors the adoption of the indeterminate plan of sentence
in criminal cases, along the line of the system set out in "Draft B," prepared in
the Attorney General's Office, with the reservation that the Conference prefers
a system whcreby a board in each circuit or at each Federal prison shall exercise
the powers of a parole board.
  The "Draft B" to which the resolution refers is in the form of a
proposed bill which provides as follows:
   SEC. L In any case in which a court of the United States impo,es a sentence
of iIIlprL.~onment for an offense punishable by imprisolllnent for a t,erm exceeding
one year, such sentence i<hall be for the maximum term fixed by Jaw. ~Within four
months after any defendant commences to serve a sentence impose(l a;: aforcsai(i,
the Board of Indeterminate Sentence and Parole shall fix a definite term of im­
prisonment that the defendant shall serve. Such term shall not be more than the
maximum term fixed bv law in reHpeet of the offense of \yhieh the defendant has
beNl convicted; and if a minimum term i" pre~cribed by law in reRpect of sneh
offense, then the term fixed by said Board shall not be less Lhan that so prescribed.
III computing commu tation for good conduct ami in determining the date Oil which
such defendant becomes eligible for parole, tile term of il1lpri~o!llnellt so fixed by
the Board shall be deemed to he the term of imprisollInent to which the defendant
has been senteneed,
   SEC. 2. In fixing terms of imprisonment pnrsuf1ut. to Section 1 of thi,'\ Act, (he
Board of Indeterminate Sent(;1lce and Parole shlJ.lI consider allY reeommendatifll1
made by the judge who prm.;ided at the trial; the recommendation of the United
States Attorney; the report and rceommendatioll of the probation officer: the
reports and recommendations of officers of the institution at which the defendsnt
is confined, including the warden. the medical officer, the psychologist, and the
                                         11 

psyclliatrbt, alJ(l other officer;.; whoRe reports the Board may deem useful; as well
as auy otht'l' informatioll that the Board may deem proper. In addition, a hearing
shall be accorded to the defendant. before the Board or a member thereof, or before
an examiner who "hall report the proceedings to the Board. At such hearing the
defendant shall have the privilege of being represented by counsel. Every case
shall be c:.msidcred hy at least three members of the Board.
   SEC. 3. The proyisions of Sections 1 and 2 of this Act shall not apply in respect
of allY offellse committed prior to the effective date of this Act.
   SEC. 4. The name of the Board of Parole is hereby ehanged to Indeterminate
Sl'ntE'IlCe and Parole Board. Said Board shall consist of five members to be
apvointed by the Attorney Genera! at a salary of $7,500 each per anllum.
   SEC. :), This Act, shall apply only in the contineutal Fnited States, other tban
the District of Columbia or Alaska.
   SEC, 6, This Act. may be referred to as the "Federal Il1determinate Sentence
Act."
   Public defenders.~-Cpol1 considering its former action on this sub­
ject, the Conference again rpcommends that provision be mnde for
the appointment of public defenders in districts where there is a
lnrge volume of criminal business.
   The coordination '!i the work of dl:strict judges in districts having more
than one judge.--Aftpr discussing t.his subject, the Confprence adopted
the following resolution:
  That WhE'1l the Director ascertaills that ill any district, where there are two or
more judge", the work of the district is Hot being carried out because of lack of
cooperatioll and coordinatioll between the judges, he should report the matter
to the Senior Circnit Judge so that he or the Circuit Council may take the matter
up and remedy the condition.
   District court rHles.~At tIlP 1938 Conference a eommittce was
appointed, composed of Dist.rict ,Judge ,John C. Knox of the Sout.hern
Dist,rict of N ew York, District Judgp "William P. ,James of t.he Southern
District of California, and District Judge Robert C. Baltzell of the
Southern District. Court of Indiana, to examine the various rules of
the district courts and to make recommendations so that the great('st
practicable clegn'e of uniformity throughout the country should be
secured. This commit.tee has been a.ssisted by IV[aj. Edgar B. Tolman,
\tr. Leland Tolman, and by representatives of t.he Department of
,Justice. Lnst yea.r it t.entative drllJt of uniform local rul€'s was pre­
pared and presented to the Conference, and the committee was
continued for another year.
   The committee has now presented a final report. The ConferencE'
expressed its appreciation of the care, thoroughness and ability with
which the committeo has performed its exacting work. The Confer­
enee resolvl'd thnt the roport be print.ed under the supervision of the
Direct.or and distributed by him to the circuit judges, distriet judges,
and to the committees on loeal rules in the respective distriets. It
was furtht'l' I'Nlolved that the Conference request the district. judges
nnd the rules commitk('s to giv(' ('onsid('mtirm to t:w report wit!1 it




                                                                                        ..II
                                        12 


 view to arriving at such uniformity throughout the nation, and espe­
 cially within the circuits, as may be found feasible, and that the anal­
yses of existing rules which the committee regards as in conflict with
 the Rules of Civil Procedure be distributed among the district judgl's
and the rules committees. The Conference recommends that appro­
priate action bc tnk('n to remove any such conflict.
    Rulesfor the circuit courts of appeals.-At its 1938 session, tlw Con­
ference appointed 11 committee consisting of Judges Parke!', Hicks,
"Wilbur, and Phillips to review the rules of the eircuit courts of nppl·als
for the purpose of making recommendations to the end that uniform
 rules for all circuits might, so far HS practicable, be adopted. Last
year that committee submitted two rules which the Conference rceom­
mended for ndoption by the several circuit courts of appeals. TlH~
committee made no further recommendations at this session of the
Conference, but it was resolved that it bc continued and that par­
 ticular attention bc given to the rules relat.ing to supersedca.s.
    Rules of evidence in criminal cases -in the F'edeml court8.-~Last year
the Conference appointed a committee composed of .Judg(·s Phillips,
Hicks, and Wilbur to study and report on the advisability of legis111­
 tion with respect to the rules of evidence, und also tile competency
and pri\'ilf'ge of witnesses, in criminal cases in the courts of the United
States. The committee was continued for another year.
    Bounda;ries of judicial circltits and distrl~ct8--Divisi()ns '~f districts
and the holding of terms If court at more than one place 'within a, di8tT'ict.·~­
At the 1937 session of the Conference, a committee was nppointf'd to
consider possible changes in the boundaries of existing circuits and
districts, and at the 1938 and 19a9 sessions that committee was con­
tinued. The committee as now constituted consists of Judges Foster,
'Wilbur, Phillips, ami Lenrned Hand, find it was resolved that it be
eontillHed to the end that fi further study of the problem might be
made with the assistance of the Director.
    With respect to the inclusion of the Virgin Islands within the Third
Judicial Circuit, it was resolved:
   Tllat the Conference reeommend to the Congress that section 1Hi of the
.Iudicial Code as amended"'(28 U. S. Code § 211) be amended So tha.t the '''irgin
Islands shall be included in the Third .Tudicial Cireuit; that section 126 of the
.Iudicial Code (28 U. S. Code § 223) be amended so that, when in the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit the public interest>; require,
a sitting of that court shall be held at a place in the Virgin Islands to be de;;ig­
nated by that court.
   The Conference also resolved thnt all statutory divisions of district
courts should be abolished, and, with respect to the holding of district
courts at more than one plaee within a district, pursuant to statute,
it resolved:
  That it is the sense of the Conference that in the interest of efficiency and ex­
pedition in the administrat.ion of justice the statutes with respect to holding
                                            13 

term;; of the district courts in the several districts be amended by a grmeral pro­
vision making applicable in other districts the provision of section 177 of Title
28, U. S. Code, with respect to the power of the judge to adjourn or continue any
term of court when there is insufficient business to justify his holding of said
term and to transfer cases whenever the convenience of the parties or the ends of
justice so require.
  Certification by ju.dges oj vD1£chers covering r'arious eJpen.ses of the
c01,Ut8.-The Conference discussed at some length statutory require­
ments tlmt judges certify or approve various vouchers. Particular
consideration was given to a memorandum prepared on this subject
by Judge Sames of the District of Arizona at the direction of the
Judicial Conference of the Ninth Circuit. The Conference resolved
to recommend the amendments to seetions 577 and 608 of TitJe 28
of the U. S. Code which were submitted by Judge Sames. These
sections, as thus amended, would read as follows (the proposed amend­
ments being in italics):
    SEC. 577. :\0 accounts of fees or costs paid to allY witness or juror, upon the
order of any judge or commissioner shall be so reexamined as to charge any mar­
shal for an erroneous taxation of such fees or costs. No accounts of fees or costs
paid to any witness upon the certificate of any United States ./1ttorney or Assistant
 United States Attorn.ey, shall be so reexamined as to charge any marshal for an
erroneOllS taxation of such fees or costs. Where the ministerial officers of the
United States have or shall incur extraordinary expense in executing the laws
thereof, the payment of which is not specifieally provided for, the President of the
United States is authorized to allow the payment thereof under the special taxa­
tion of the district court of the district in which the said services have been or
shall be rendered, to be paid from the appropriation for defraying the expenses
of the judiciary.
    SEC. 608. The ]V1arshal shall pay to the jurors all fees to which they appear to
be entitled on the certificate of attendance of the Clerk of the Court, which sum shall
lie allowed him. at the treasury in his accounts. I n cases where the United States
are parties, the 1'1'1arshal shall pay to the witnesses all fees to which they appear to
be entitled on the certificate of attendance of the United States .tittomey, or his Assist­
ant, which sum shall be allowed him. at the treasury in his accounts. No accounts
of fees or costs paid to any witness upon the certificate of the United States Attorney,
01' his Assistant, and no acc01mts of fees or costs paid to any juror upon the certificate
of the Clerk of the COUTt, shall be so reexamined as to charge any ltlarshal for an
erroneous taxation of fees or cos/s paid for attendance of any witness or juror paid
in accordance with such certificate.
   The general problem of certifications by judges was referred to the
Director for further study and report.
   Clerks' jee8 and charges.-'l'he Conference considered proposals for
the adoption of systems of a flat fee in the district and eircuit courts.
It was the sense of the Conference that no present recommendations
should be made as to these proposals and that each member should
take them up with the judges and clerks in his circuit. With respect
to the ebarges made by clerks of the various circuit courts of appeals
for supervising the printing of transcript:'!, it was the sense of the




                                                                                              J
                                         14 


conference that it should recommend to the Suprome Court a consider­
ation of the present fees payable to clerks for that purpose and that,
if the court desires to retain the present schedule of fees, amounting
to 2.5 cents per page, it consider fixing a maximum fee for each tran­
script, not to exceed $.500.
   The status of retired judges.-lt was the sense of tIl(> Confpr('nco
that a judge who has retired because of disability pursuant to the
act of August 5, 1939, should not thereafter exercise judicial func­
tions without appropriate approval, and the Confl,rcllce accordingly
resolved:
   That the Conference recommends that the act of August 5, 1939, be amended
so as to provide that a Justiee of the Supreme Court so retiring may nevertheless
be called upon by the Chief Justice and be by him authorized to perform such
judicial duties, in any judicial circuit, illcluding those of a circuit justice in such
circuit, as such retired Justice may be willing to undertake; that a circuit or
district judge so retiring may nevertheless be called upon by the senior circuit
judge of that circuit and be by him authorized to perform such judicial duties
in such circuit as such retired judge may be \yilling to undertake, or he may be
called upon by the Chief Justic~ and be by him authorized to perform such
judicial duties in any other circuit as such retired judge may be willing to under­
take; and that any judge of any othcr court or the Cnited States so retired may
be called upon by the presiding judge or senior judge of snch court and be by
him authorized to perform such judicial duties in such court a8 he may be willing
to undertake, and that any such justice or jlldge so retiring may perform judicial
duties only when so called and authorized by the Chief Justice, the senior circuit
judge, presiding judge, or senior judge.
   \Vith rospeet to juJges retiring without disability und<'l" the pro­
visions of the first parngraph of section 37.5, Title 28 of the l~. S.
Code, the Confcl'enee approved the follO\,,~ing resoluLion:
   That the Conference recommends that Title 28 of the Cnited States Code,
section 375, be amended by inserting a 11roviso that any judge so retiring may
perform judicial duties only when so called and authorized by the Chief Justice,
senior circuit judge, presiding judge, or senior judge.
  It was the sense of the Confl'rt'nee that where any retir(,d judge
actually performs judieiul servic(" he will be entitled to the services
of a secretary.
   Appointment of relatives.-~- It was dedarcd to be tlw sellse of the
Conference that no pprSOIl should hereafter be appointed as law
clerk or secretnry to a circuit or district judge who is related to the
judge eonecrncd within the degree of affinity or eonsnuguinity de­
scribed in section 126 of Title 28 of the U. S. Code.
   Courthouses in the District of CoZ117nbi(L.-The COnfel'N1Ce approved
the following resolution submitted by Chief .Justice Groner:
   Whereas, in a report of the Oliver "Wendell Holmes Devise Committee (S.
Doc. No. 197, 76th Cong.) submitted to the Congress pursuant to Public Reso­
lution No. 124, Seventy-fifth Congress, recommendation is made for the imme­
diate acquisition of certain lands east of the Supreme Court Bllilding to be set
apart for the .Justice Holmes Memorial;
                                        15 

    \YherE'as, the report recites that the National Capital Parks and Plannillg
Commi~sion      approves the plan for the Holmes Memorial (as indicated) as a part
of its larger general project for the develoJlment of two squares east of the
Supreme Court Building (Nol'. 758 and 759), ill 01'001' to accomplish the proper
settillg; for said memorial; and
    'Vhcreas, there is urgent and immediate need for increased ,space and facilities
for the District Court of the United States for the District of Columbia and
prospective need for increased space and facilities for the United States Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia,
   It is resolved by the Conference of Senior Circuit Judges that the report of
the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise Committee receives its approval, and further,
that the necessities of the new court buildings, together with the other public
buildings referred to therein, are so pressing that it recommends that appropriate
action be taken as soon as possible to acquire the property and develop it in
conformity with the report of the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise Committee and
the recommendations of the National Capital Parks and Planning Commission.
  Appeal8 ,in adm'iralty.~-The Conference appointed a committee
composed of Judges Learned Hand, Parker, Foster, Groner, and
Magruder to consider the advisability of extending to appeals in
admiralty suits the praetice obtaining in appeals in other civil actions,
and to report at the next Conferenee,
   Time for taking appeals to the circ'uit CO'urts of appeal,s.--It was the
sense of the Conference that there ought to be greater uniformity
regarding the time for the taking of appeals, and with that end in
view the Conference adopted the following resolution:
   ''''hereas the time for taking an appeal to a circuit court of appeals from a
final judgment or decree of a district court in a civil, bankruptcy, admiralty or
copyright case (28 U, S. Code § 230), the time for taking an appeal to a circuit
court of appeals from an interlocutory order of a district court in certain cases,
the time for making application for appeal and the time for filing of a notice of
appeal from, or petition for review of, or to set aside an order or decision of an
a<iministrative board, commission, or agency, varies from fifteen days (7 U. S.
Code § 8) to ninety days, and that from somo administrati\'e boards the time is
Hot fixed by statute,
   Be it resolved, That it is the sense of this Conference that the tiIlle periods in
such cases be made uniform and not to exceed thirty days, and that in computing
such time periods the provisions of Rule 0 (a) of the Federal Rules of Civil
Proeedllre shall govern.
    RmwmlflOm o:ffice of certain Puieralj11riges with(1),t impeachnumt,­
A cOBunittce consisting of Judges Biggs, Phillips, and Learned Hand
eonsi<iPI'('d tllP l1dvisahilit.v of legislation with respect to an alterna­
t,ivp fOl' impl'aehml'nt proceedings in the case of circuit and district
judges charged with derelictions. On the report of the committee
the Confert'llce ndopted the following resolution:
    ASHUlning its eonsHtutiollality, as to which we express no opinion, we are ill
accord with the gcneral purpose and approve in prillciplc the provisions embodied
ill H. H. !H60, 76th COil gress, 3d session.
  The committee was continued to consider the advisability of making
provision for the creation of special courts, or the designation of
                                   16 

particular judges, to deal with questions calling for specialized
knowledge, especially in relation to proceedings for the reorganization
of railroads. The committee is to report at the next Conference.
   Oirculation (~f d~irector'8 quarterly Teport.~-The Conference resolved
that the Director should send copies of the quarterly reports direct to
all the circuit judges and that these quarterly reports should be con­
sidered at the meetings of the circuit councils.
   Communications from circuit council8.~The Conference resolved
that it was always ready to receive any proper communications from
ally circuit council.
   Advisory committee.-At its 1939 session the Conference appointed a
committee, consisting of Chief Justice Hughes, Chief Justice Groner,
and ,Judges Stone, Parker, and Biggs, to advise and assist the Director
ill the exercise of his duties. That committee has been continued.
It is the sense of the Conference that any recommendations in the
report of the Attorney General's Committee on Bankruptcy Adminis­
tration which have reference to the business of the Administrative
Office should be referred to this advisory committee for preliminary
consideration.
   Instead of adjourning, the Conference declared a recess subject to
the call of the Chief Justice.
   For the ,Judicial Conference.
                                           CHARLES   E.   HUGHES,
                                                          Chief ,htst'ice.
  OCTOBER   9, 1940.
