           REPORT OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
                     SEPTEMBER SESSION,   1944.


       The Judicial Conference convened, pursuant to 28
     U. S. C. § 218, on September 26, 1944, on the call of the
     Chief Justice, and continued in session for four days.
     The following members of the Conference were present:
       The Chief Justice, presiding,
       First Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Calvert Magruder,
       Second Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Learned Hand,
       Third Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge John Biggs, Jr.,
       Fourth Circuit, Senior Circuit .Tudge John J. Parker,
       ]'ifth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Samuel H. Sibley,
       Sixth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Xenophon Hicks,
       Seventh Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Evan A. Evans,
       Eighth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Kimbrough Stone,
       Ninth Circuit, Senior Oircuit Judge Curtis D. Wilbur,
       Tenth Circuit, Senior Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips,
       District of Columbia, Chief Justice D. La.wrence Groner.
       Judge Sibley was unable to attend the session on the
     last day.
       The Attorney General and the Solicitor General, with
     members of their staff, were present at the convening of
     the Conference.
       Henry P. Chandler, the Director of the .A.drninistrathle
     Office of the Unittd States Courts, Elmore Whitehurst,
     the Assistant Director, Will Shafroth, the Chief of the
     Division of Procedural Studies and Statistics, and other
     members of the staff of the Administrative Office attended
     the Conference to aid in its deliberations.
       Representative Hatton W. Sumners, Chairman of the
     Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives,
     was present on invitation of the Conference for a part of
     the first day's session and discussed with the Conferellce
     pending and prospective legislation affecting the federal
     judicial system. The Conference regretted that as Con­
(	   gress was not in session, other members of the Senate
     and House Judiciary Committees were unable to aecept
     the invitation of the Conference to be present.
                             2
   On the invitation of the Conference, the follO\\-ring were
present at various times: Circuit .Judge Albert B. Maris,
Senator Homer T. Bone, appointed Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit, Justice .Justin l\liller of the United States
Court of A ppeals for the District of Columbia, District
Judges J Oh11 C. Knox and Delbert E. Metzger, Referees
in Bankruptcy Carl D. Friebolin, Esq., and Peter B. Olney,
Esq., Commissioner Clyde B. Aitchison of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and Frank W. Stonecipher, Esq.,
Chairman of the Committee on Bankruptcy and Liquida­
tion of the Section on Corporation, Banking and Mercan­
tile Law of the American Bar Association.
   Statement of the Attorney General.-The Attorney
General addressed the Conference with respect to various
matters of importance to the work of the federal judiciary.
He recommended that Judicial Code, § 215, be amended,
so as to provide that five .Justices of the Supreme Court
should constitute a quorum of that Court. He renewed
his recommendation of the referees' bill, ILR. 1107, with
the amendments suggested by the Conference, of the pub­
lic defender bill, H.R. 676, and of the federal corrections
bills, S. 894, 895, H.R.. 2139, 2140, all proposed or ap­
proved by the Conference in previous years, and of S. 919,
which would provide for a single trial by jury in con­
demnation cases in place of the present procedure prevail­
iug in some stat~s by which the amount of the award is
determined by commissioners with the right in each party
to obtain a trial de novo before a jury. In connection
with the public defender bill, he also spoke approvingly
of the report of a committee of the Conference presently
to be referred to, recommending that the district courts
be empowered in their discretion to provide either for
salaried public defenders, or under specified conditions
for compensation for counsel appointed to represent in­
digent defendants in particular cases.
   He suggested that the present arraignment statutes,
which do not provide a uniform period within which a1'­
                            3

raignment must follow arrest, be replaced by some uni­
form requirement that federal officers take an arrested
person before a committing officer for arraignment "with­
in a reasonable time". He also recommended that the
statute, 28 U. S. C. § 832, be amended so as to permit
aliens to secure the benefits of the provisions regulating
proceediugs in forma pauperis. He urged that the
Government be given the right to appeal in criminal cases
where a defendant's motion to dismiss the indictment 1
made after the case goes to trial, is granted for technical
defects in the indictment. He also suggested that in
cases where appeals from the district courts to the Su­
preme Court are now taken by allowance of an appeal,
provision should be made, either by statute or by rule, for
taking the appeal by notice of appeal, so as to make this
practice uniform with that in appeals to the circuit courts
of appeals.
   The Attorney General also referred to the fact that
there were then only three vacant judgeships in the dis­
trict courts, and one in the United States Court of Ap­
peals for the District of Columbia. He pointed out that
435,483 aliens were naturalized in the past year, more
than in any previous year, and that of these about 150,000
were former citizens of countries with which the United
States is at war. He commended the work of the courts
ill disposing of the large arrearage of these cases, and
placing them on a current basis. He indicated that this
did not mean that the courts had relaxed the standards
for naturalization, since about 41j2~o of the applications
were refused, as against 170 in peace time. He also ex­
pressed general approval of the report of the Committee
of the Conference on the Treatment of Insane Persons
Charged with Crime in the l!'ederal Courts.
   The A dministyatiO'ilJ of the United States COlU"tS.­
Report of the Director.-The Director submitted to the
Conference his fifth annual report, reviewing the ac­
tivities of the Administrative Office for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1944, including the report of the Division
of Procedural Studies and Statistics. The Conference
                            4
approved the Director's report and ordered it released
for publication.
   Cases Begun, Disposed oj, and Pending, ,in the District
Courts.-The Director's report presented detailed statis­
tical data concerning the work of the federal courts. In
addition each Senior Circuit .Tudge reported to the Con­
ference on the work of the courts in his circuit.
   The following table indicates for each of the last four
fiscal years, ended on June 30, the number of civil cases
commenced in the District Courts (including those of the
Canal Zone and the Virgin Islands), and the number of
cases in those courts terminated during each year, as wen
as the number of cases pending at the close of each year:
Fisoal Year ended
    on June 30             COI'nmenced   Terminated   Pending
1941 ....................... 38,477        38,561      29,394 

1942 ....................... 38,140        38,352      29,182 

1943 ....................... 36,789
1944 ....................... 38,499
                                           36,044
                                           37,086
                                                       29,927 

                                                       31,340     ­
   The war has continued to have a marked effect on the
work of the federal courts. The increase in number of
cases commenced in the last fiscal year was due to the
increased number of government civil cases, which rose
from 19,072 in 1943 to 20,895 last year. This increase in
turn was more than accounted for by an increase in OPA
cases, of which 6,707 were filed in 1944 as compared to
2,230 the previous year. The number of condemnation
cases commenced has begun to decline, having fallen from
4,975 in 1943 to 2,748 last year, although there are still
many such cases pending.
   The number of private civil cases commenced in the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1944, 17,604, was almost the
same as in the previous year, when 17,717 cases were
begun. The number of new bankruptcy cases again showed
a sharp decrease, falling 440/0 from 1943 to 1944, and
62.5% from 1942 to 1944. And during the last fiscal year
there was also a large increase over the previous year in
the number of persons naturalized in the federal courts,
from 226,800 to 320,165, although the number of petitions
filed showed a small decrease.
                                 5

       An increase in war offenses has caused an increase in
    criminal prosecutions begun, from 36,588 in the previous
    fiscal year to 39,621 last year. OPA prosecutions in~
    creased from none in 1942 to 2,311 in 1943 and 4,565 last
    year. Selective Service cases, however, decreased from
    7,934 in 1943 to 6,751 in 1944.
       The Dispatch of JudiC'ial Business.-Addiiional Judges.
    -rrhe reports of the Director and the Senior Circuit
    Judges indicated that in general during the past. year,
    the federal courts expeditiously disposed of cases pending
    before them. The median time from filing to disposition
    of cases terminated in the district courts, in which a trial
    was held, was 10.5 months, a slightly shorter interval than
    in the previous year. The median time for disposition of
    appeals by the circuit courts of appeals, in cases termi­
    nated after hearing or submission, remained 6.5 months.
       As in past years the Administrative Office has acted as
    a clearing house for information with respect to the avail­

-   ahility of judges for assignment to districts in which the
    dockets are congested and has cooperated with the Chief
    Justice in securing the necessary consents to the assign­
    ments made. During the past year the Chief Justice made
    five designations of circuit judges to serve in other cir­
    cuit courts of appeals, and twenty-nine designations of
     judges to sit in district courts outside their circuits.
        Even with these assignments it was not possible to
     satisfy the need for additional judges in some of the cir­
     cuits, particularly the Second and Third, and in the Dis­
     trict of Columbia. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the
     Third Circuit has heen in particular need of this assis­
     tance because of the increased business pending there and
     because Circuit Judge Maris also serves as Chief Judge
     of the Emergency Court of Appeals. In addition several
     district courts require the services of additional perma­
     nent judges. 'J1hat these may be provided for, the Con­
     ference recommended the passage of the following bills
     now pending in Congress: S. 1559, providing for an ad­
     ditional circuit judge for the Third Circuit; H.R. 3750,
                             6

providing for the appointment of an additional circuit
judge for the Third Circuit, and also permitting the filling
of the first vacancy    the office of district judge for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania; S. 932 and H.R. 2395,
providing for the appointment of an additional district
judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania; S. 1817,
providing for an additional judge for the District of Dela­
ware; H.R. 3731, providing for the appointment of an
additional judge for the District of New Jersey; R.R.
37:32, providing for the repeal of the prohibition against
the filling of the vacancy in the District of New Jersey
caused by the death of .Judge Avis. The Conference also
recommended the repeal of the prohibition against filling
the vacancy in the district conrt for the Southern District
of New York caused by the retirement of Judge "\Vooisey.
   The Conference considered the following bills, and
found no necessity for their passage at the present time:
S. 716, providing for an additional circuit judge for the
Seventh Circuit; S. 704, providing for an additional dis­
trict judge for the District of North Dakota; H.R. 1619,
providing for the appointment of an additional district
judge for the District of Minnesota; fLR. 4725, providing
for the appontment of an additional district judge for
the Eastern District of \Vashington.
   The Conference also recommended that legislation be
enacted permitting a district judge to sit by designation
in the Circuit Court of Appeals in a Circuit other than
that of his district.
   Adntinistration of the Probation System.-The Direc­
tor's report called attention to an increase of 11 % in the
number of persons placed on probation by the courts in the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1944, as compared with the
number in the previous year. The total number of per­
sons under supervision at the end of the year was 30,15:3,
a small decrease from the number in 1943. This is the
result of the entry into the armed forces of a larger num­
ber of probationers, of whom only a little more than one­
                                 7

    half of one per cent are known to have been dishonorably
    dis('.harged, while six received decorations for exception­
    ally meritorious service.
       The report emphasized the importance of maintaining
    the high standard of qualifications of probation officers
    recommended by the Conference in 1942, since the trained
    intelligence and experience in personal guidance, required
    ill the supervision of probationers at any' time, will be
    particularly needed in coping with the problems of adjust­
    ment that are likely to follow the war. The report points
    out that of forty new probation officers appointed in 1944
    only twenty-eight met the educational standard, and only
    twenty-nine, the standard of experience recommended by
    the Conference. It is believed that this is in part due to
    the difficulty of finding suitably qualified persous at th~~
    prevailing compensation. The Conference last year rec­
    ommended that sufficient funds be appropriated to permit
    a reclassification of probation officers and clerks, but Con­

-   gress failed to provide the funds necessary for this pur­
    pose. The report expressed the hope that Congress will
    make the requested appropriation for the coming year.
      Supportin.g Judicial Pe1'sonnel.--Law Clerks.-Ba·iliffs.
    -A t its last session, the Conference approved the plan
    recommended by the Committee on Supporting Judicial
    Personnel, of which ,Judge Biggs is the chairman. By
    that pJan each circuit and district judge would receive
    a maximum allotment of $6,500 for serviees of secretaries
    and law derks, except that the allotment would be $7,5bO
    for each senior circuit judge and for each senior district
    judge in districts having at least :five judges. The Con­
    ference at that time authorized the committee to present
    to the appropriation committees of Congress recommen­
    dations for an appropriation to place the pla.n into opera­
    tion. 'rhe committee reported that although the Senate
    had amended the judiciary appropriation bill to provide
    $372,115 for these purposes, the amendment was not con­
    cm'red in by the House, and the Senate receded. The
                            8

Conference continued the committee and authorized it to
present to Congress again the recommendation that a
suitable appropriation be made.
   The Committee on Law Clerks for Judges, of which
Judge Knox is chairman, was continued, and was re­
quested to cooperate with the Committee on Supporting
Judicial Personnel in securing an appropriation sufficient
to provide a law clerk for each district judge desiring
and needing such assistance.
   Justice Miller presented to the Conference the resolu­
tion of the Judicial Conference of the District of Columbia
requesting that the Committee on Supporting Judicial
Personnel be authorized to consider the classification and
promotion of certain administrative officers of the United
States courts. The Conference referred to the committee
for its consideration the subject of the classification and
promotion system for Assignment Commissioners and as­
sistants, Motions Commissioners and Domestic Relations
Commissioners of the District Court for the District of
Columbia, and for other similar or equivalent officers
throughout the federal court system.
   Judge Maris, chairman of the Committee on Bailiffs,
reported to the Conference that the bailiffs' bill, R.R.
4065, recommended by the committee and the Conference,
is pending on the Consent Calendar of the Rouse of Rep­
resentatives. The Conference requested the committeo
to continue its efforts to procure enactment of the measure.
   At its 1941 session the Conference instructed the Direc­
tor to establish a plan of promotions for judicial em­
ployees, including automatic one-step within-grade pro­
motions after specified periods of satisfactory service.
 The plan also provided for two-step within-grade promo­
tions "for exceptionally meritorious service" after these
periods of service. The Director reported to the Confer­
 ence that in practice this latter standard was extremely
 difficult to apply without unfair discrimination among
 those recommended for two-step promotions, and asked the
 Conference for directions. In view of these difficulties,
 the Conference decided to eliminate this part of the plan.
                                 9
       Bankruptcy Administration.-Judge Phillips presented
    the report of the Committee on Bankruptcy Administra­
    tion. Ifhe committee recommended that the Conference
    renew its approval of the referees' bill, H.R. 1107, with
    the amendments approved last year. These amendments
    strike out ~ 34(b), which limited the discretion of the dis­
    trict judges in the reappointment of referees, and substi­
    tute for the present provisions relating to the resignation
    and retirement of referees, a provision according to full­
    time referees and full-time employees of referees' offices
    the benefits of the Civil Service Retirement Act of May
    29, 1930, as amended. The committee also recommended
    that the bill be amended to permit part-time referees to
    act also as U. S. Commissioners. The committee empha­
    sized, as did the Director in his annual report, that the
    bill was urgently needed at the present time, in view of
    the marked decrease in bankruptcy cases. This has re­
    sulted in drastic reductions in the compensation of referees

-   and in the exhaustion or near exhaustion of indemnity
    funds for the payment of the expenses of the referees'
     offices. The committee believes that passage of the bill
    will avoid the abandonment for lack of funds to maintain
     them, of a substantial nnmber of referees' offices, which
    will be required for the expected increase in bankruptcy
     cases after the war emergency passes. Referees Friebolin
     and Olney and Mr. Stonecipher urged the Conference to
     renew its approval of the referees' bill with the present
     § 34(b) and the original retirement provisions included.
     Upon further consideration the Conference approved the
     bill with the amendments recommended by the committee.
        The Conference also approved the following recom­
     mendations of the committee: that there be no change
     in the provisions of ~~ 17(1) and 64a(4) of the Bank­
     ruptcy Act, as to the discharge or priority of tax claims;
     that § 57 (j) be amended to stop the running of interest
     and penalties on tax claims at the date of the filing of the
     petition in bankruptcy or debtor proceedings; that § 116 of

-    Chaptf~r X be amended to insert a new subsection (5) to
                             10 

permit the court in a Chapter X proceeding to determine
the legality and amount of taxes owing by the debtor to the
United States or to any state or its subdivision whether
or not an order has been entered directing that bank­
ruptcy be proceeded with pursuant to the provisions of
Chapters I to VII, inclusive; that ~ 64a(1) be amended
to provide that where a Chapter X, XI, XII or XIII pro­
ceeding is superseded by liquidation, the expenses of liqui­
dation may, in the discretion of the court, be given priority
over expenses of administration prior to the entry of the
order for liquidation; that the Borah Act, 28 U. S. C.
~ 572(a), be not repealed; and that ~~ 156 and 159 of the
Bankruptcy Act, requiring the appointment of an inde­
pendent trustee where the amount of liabilities exceeds
$250,000, be not amended to require such appointment only
where the amount of liabilities exceeds $750,000.
   The Conference, on motion of Judge Phillips, requested
the committee to continue its consideration of a bill pro­
viding for conditional discharges in certain cases. The
Conference received from the committee a recommenda­
tion for the enactment of a bill to provide that debts in­
curred after the granting of a discharge or confirmation
of a plan should, if the discharge or confirmation be
revoked, have priority over debts which were provable in
the proceeding prior to the discharge or confirmation.
The Conference directed that the recommendation be cir­
culated among the circuit and district judges and others
concerned, and an expression of their views requested.
   The Conference approved the recommendation of the
committee that referees be urged to purchase their sup­
plies and equipment for official use, through the Procure­
ment Division of the Treasury Department, thus securing
substantial savings and reducing the overhead cost of op­
erating their offices. The Conference also approved the
committee's recommendation that the Administrative Of­
fice, in order to prevent the accumulation of deficits in the
indemnity funds in those referees' offices where the in­
demnity rule is not providing sufficient funds for their
                                11
    maintenance, take up with the judges of the district and
    the circuit council of the circuit, where such offiees are
    located, the matter of providing for a consolidation of
    offices or the adoption of other measures which will meet
    the emergency.
        The committee's report, as well as the Director's report,
    pointed out that much valuable space in the Clerks' offices
    is taken up by old and useless files in bankruptcy and
    other cases. The Director stated that the Administrative
    Office is studying plans for the disposal of much of this
    material under the- Act of July 7, 1943. The committee
    recommended that bankruptcy case files be destroyed in
    all no-asset cases and in asset cases not involving real
    estate at the end of ten years after the cases are closed;
    and that in asset eases involving real estate the proofs of
    elaim and cancelled checks be destroyed at the end of ten
    years and the remainder of the files at the end of twenty
    years after the close of such cases. The committee fur­
    ther recommended that if these files are to be destroyed,
    referees should be required to keep and preserve adequate
    claims registers and dockets, showing such information
    as the date of filing of claims, their allowance or disallow­
    ance) the amount allowed, and the dividends paid. The
    oommittee recommended that a uniform referee's docket
    and claims register be designed for use in all referees'
    offices. The Conferfmce approved these recommendations.
    In accordance with a suggestion of the committee, the fol..
    lowing were appointed by the Chief ,Justice as a commit­
    tee to study the problems presented and to make appro­
    priate recommendations: Heferees in Bankruptcy Fred H.
    Kruse, Northern District of Ohio, Chairman; Henry Bund­
    schu, Western District of :Missouri; District Court Clerks
    :F'. L Beers, Northern District of Georgia and George J.
    H. Follmer, Southern District of New -}'" ork, and Edwin L.
     Cun~y, Chief of the Bankruptcy Divisi on of the Adminis­
    trative Office of the United States Courts.
      Examination of Offices of the Courts.--The Conference
-   considered the recommendation of the ,Judicial Conference
                            12 

of the Seventh Circuit, that personnel examining the offices
of the courts be transferred from the Department of Jus­
tice to the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, and decided to take no action on the recommen­
dation.
  Appellate Review of Orders of the Interstate Com­
merce Commission.-Judge Phillips, the chairman of the
Committee on Appellate Review of Orders of the Inter­
state Commerce Commission and Other Administrative Or­
ders, submitted the report of the committee, recommend­
ing a draft bill giving to the Circuit Courts of Appeals
(including the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia) exclusive jurisdiction to enjoin or
set aside certain specified orders of the Interstate Com­
merce Commission, any further review to be by writ of
certiorari in the Supreme Court; and providing that, with
certain exceptions, the review should be upon the record
made before the Commission. After hearing Judge Phillips
and Commissioner Aitchison, who is a member of the c~m­
mittee, the Conference directed that the report be received
and that it be circulated among the federal judges and
other interested persons for their consideration and com­
ment.
  Court Reporters.-The conference, pursuant to ~ 5a(c)
of the Judicial Code, added by ~ 1 of Public Law 222
of the 78th Congress, authorized the following salaries and
duties of reporters for the district courts in the several
districts listed below, in lieu of those fixed at the Special
Session of the Conference on April 15, 1944:
    For the District of Columbia: twelve reporters at
      $4,500,
    For the District of Maine; one reporter to act also
      as secretary to the judge, $4,000,
    For the Middle District of Georgia; one reporter at
      $3,600,
                               13 

        For the Western District of Texas; one reporter at
         $3,600, and one reporter to act also as secretary to
          the judge at $4,500,
        For the Eastern District of Tennessee: two reporters
         at $3,600.
      Pursuant to ~ 5a(a) of the Judicial Code, authorizing
    the Judicial Conference to formulate from time to time
    standards of qualifications for court reporters, the Con­
    ference adopted the following resolution:
          "Be it Resolved:
          1. That persons appointed as court reporters of
        the United States district courts shall be capable of
        reporting accurately verbatim by shorthand or me­
        chanical means, proceedings before the court at a
        rate of 200 words a minute, and furnishing a correct
        typewritten transcription of their notes with such
        promptitude as may be requisite. They shall dem­
        onstrate familiarity with the terminology used in the
        courts, and shall be persons of unquestionable probity;
          2. That the method of determining these qualifica­
        tions in each particular case be left to the appointing
        court which will have a vital iuterest in securing for
        the reporting of its proceedings only persons who
        are competent and upright. The Conference sug­
        gests that the district judges may properly take into
        consideration the experience of applicants who have
        been reporting in the courts and may appoint without
        examination such reporters as are known to them to
        possess through such experience the necessary quali­
        fications. The Conference also suggests that judges
        would be justified in treating as qualified without
        examination:
          (1) Persons presently engaged in reporting court
          proceedings in the locality and known to the ap­
          pointing court to be competent; (2) persons hold­
          ing certificates of proficiency from the National

-         Shorthand Reporters' Association, or state or local
                              14
      shorthand reporters 1 associations known to the ap­
      pointing- judges to base such certificates on merit;
                                                                  -
      or (3) perRons holding certificates of proficiency
      issued by states which have provisions for the ex­
      amination and certification of shorthand reporters;
      3. That where examination of applicants is neces­
    sary to determine their qualifications, the Conference
    sug-gests that the appointing judge appoint a com­
    mittee composed of members of the bar or court re­
    porters or both to conduct such examination."
   Pursuant to § 5£:.(c) of the Judicial Code, the Confer­
enC'e considered the fees for transcripts to be charged by
court reporters to all parties, including the United States,
as prescribed by the district courts. In reaching its con­
clusioHs, the Conference also considered the rates estab­
lished for official reporters in the state courts in the vicin­


                                                                  -

ity of the respective federal courts, and the rates for re­
porting services now charged in the federal courts. It
took into account the fact that the salaries authorized at
the April 1944 session of the Conference will exce£1d the
per diem fees previollsly received by court reporters in
the federal courts. After making- allowance for the re­
quirement of the statute, that the reporters shall trans­
cribe without charge all pleas and proceedings upon the
imposition of sentence in criminal cases and any other
parts of the proceedings which may be directed by the
court, the Conference decided that in view of the salaries
authorized, there should be some reduction in the tran­
script rates now prevailing in the district courts, in order
to reduce the (!osts of litig'ation in the federal courts. The
Conference approved the fees to be allowed per page con­
forming to prescribed specifications, as shown ill the ap­
pendix to this report.
   '1'he Conference also adopted the following resolution:
    "Resolved: 1'hat in the opinion of the Conferenee it
    is not practicable to fix a limitation on the amounts
    which reporters may earn from transcripts i that as
                                 15
          the reporters are required by statute to make in de­
          tail reports of their earnings. transcript rates should
          be adjusted in each District from time to time, with
          11 view of reducing the cost of litigation to as great
          an extent as possible while allowing a fair compensa­
          tion to reporters for the work required of them."
        The Direetor submitted to the Conference proposed
     fonTis to be used by reporters in filing with the Admin­
     istrative Office information as to their attendance in court,
     transc.rip,ts furnished and fees charged, as well as their
     recpipts and expenses. The Oonference, pursuant to
       5a(d) of the JuJiciaI Oode, approved these forms and
     directed that they he used by the reporters in conformity
     with the instructions accompanying the forms, in pre­
     paring and filing' their reports.
        The Oonference authorized the Oommittee on Oourt Re­
     porters to support the recommended appropriations for
     the court reporter system before the appropriations com­
     mi ttees of the Oongress.
-'     Budget Estimates.-The Oonference approved the esti
     mates of expenditures and appropriations necessary for
     the maintenance of the United States Oourts and the Ad­
     ministrative Office for the fiscal year 1946, as submitted
     by the Director, including estimates of the sums necessary
     to place in operation the court reporter system.
       Sentencing and Parole of Federal Offenders.-The Oon­
     ference adopted the following resolution:
         "Resolved: That the Oonference renew its approval
         of the pending sentencing and parole bills (S. 894,
         895; H.R. 2139, 2140), as recommended by the Oom­
         mittee on the Punishment for Orime in the Federal
         Courts, and that the committee be authorized to advo­
         catG their passage before Oongress; that the com­
         mittee be authorized to prepare an alternative bill
         which would make effective the provisions as to youth
         offenders, and to present such alternative biI1 to Oon­
         gress, to the circuit and district judges, to the Attor­

-        ney General and to other interested persons for their
                             16
    consideration; that the committee be anthorized, if it
    sees fit, to recommend to Congress that the pending
    bills be amended to provide that the Board of Cor­
    rections to be established under the bills shall be ap­
    pointed by the President, with the advice and consent
    of the Senate, and to provide that there be no require­
    ment that the trial judge state the reasons for his
    action when he fixes a definite sentence different from
    that recommended by the Board."
  Clerks' Fees.-The Committee on Clerks' Fees, of
which Judge Biggs is chairman, reported that Congress
had passed and the President had signed H.R. 1569 and
1623 (Public Laws 426 and 427 of the 78th Congress).
Public Law 426 gives the Conference power to prescribe
the costs and fees to be charged in the Circuit Courts of
Appeals, while Public Law 427 prescribes certain flat fees
in the district courts and gives the Conference power to
prescribe miscellaneous fees in the districts courts. The
Conference continued the committee and authorized it to
study the question as to what fees should be established
pursuant to this legislation, and to recommend schedules
of such fees.
  Unifo'rm Time for Appeals from Distt-ict Courts to Cit"­
cuit Courts of Appeals.-The Conference approved the
following recommendation of the Committee on Uniform
Time for Appeals from District Courts to Circuit Courts
of Appeals, of which Judge Stone is chairman:
     "That in all civil cases, except where a shorter period
     may be provided by law and except those wherein the
     United States is a party, appeals shall be within
     thirty days after judgment or order denying motions
     affecting the judgment; and that incases wherein the
     United States is a party, the time shall be sixty days;
     and that this recommendation be addressed to the
     Committee on Rules of Civil Procedure appointed by
     the Supreme Court."
  United States Commissioners.-The Conference re­
newed its last year's recommendations of legislation with
                                 17 

     respect to United States Commissioners. The Conference
     also renewed its direction that the Director obtain data as
     to the number of Commissioners and the qualifications of
     Commissioners appointed or reappointed since the 1943
     Conference.
        Representation of District Jud,ges in the JUdir;ial Con­
     ference.-Judge Phillips submitted the report of the Com­
     mittee on the Representation of District Judges in the
     Judicial Conference of Senior Circuit Judges. The re­
     port recommends the adoption of the following plan:
          "(1) That whenever a matter which affects the dis­
          trict judges or the district courts comes before the
          Judicial Conference, it be submitted to a committee
          in which the district judges shall have at least equal
          representation; (2) that each circuit conference create
          a legislative committee to be appointed in such man­
          ner as the circuit conference shall determine; (3) that
          the Judicial Conference committee undertake to ascer­
          tain through the several circuit legislative committees,
./        the views of the district judges with respect to the
          matter submitted to the Judicial Conference commit­
          tee for consideration; (4) that the report of the J udi­
          cial Conference committee, including any draft of bills
          to be recommended to Congress, be submitted to such
          legislative committees and to each circuit and district
          judge at least 120 days before submission for action
          to the Judicial Conference, with the request that the
          circuit and district judges forward to the Judicial
           Conference committee, directly or through the legis­
          lative committees, their views, suggestions, and criti­
          cisms with respect to the report and draft of bills at
          least 30 days before the meeting of the Judicial Con­
          ference; (5) and that such expression of views, sug­
           gestions, and criticisms forwarded to the Judicial
           Conference committee by the circuit and district
          judges and the legislative committees, together with
          an accurate summary thereof, be submitted along with
          the report of the committee to the Judicial Conference;
          and (6) that the Judicial Conference make no recom­
-

                            18
     mendation on the matter until the foregoing procedure
    has been carried out."
   The Conference received the report and instructed the
Director to print the report in sufficient numbers to supply
a copy to each district and circuit Judge and to deliver
the copies to the senior circuit judges. The Conference
further resolved that each senior circuit judge be requested
to submit the report to each district and circuit judge i.n
his eircuit, and to ascertain and report their views on the
recommendations of the committee.
   Treatment of Insane Persons Charged with Crime in
the F'ederal Courts.--lTpon an interim report by the com­
mittee on the subjeet, submitted by Judge Magruder, its
chairman, the Conference adopted the follov,ring resolu­
tion:
      "It appearing from a study by the Bureau of Prisons
    that a eonsiderable number of persons are being sen­
    tenced for federal offenses and sent to prison who,
    because of their insanity, should not have been COIl..
    victed, and who, indeed, bocause of their mental in­
    capacity to participate rationally in their defense,
    should never have been arraigned or brought to trial,
    Resolved, that the Conference recommend:
       (1) That the district courts make fuller use of the
    sum provided in the annual appropriation for psychi­
    atric examinations in occasional eriminal eases at the
    instance of the court, for the purpose of procnring a
    competent and impartial psychiatric examination of
    accused persons brought before the court, where from
    the report of the probation officer or from oLher indi­
    cations there is reason to believe that the accused may
    be mentally unsound;
       (2) That wherever possible, arrangements should
    be made with suitable local hospitals and other insti­
    tutions and agencies whereby in the discretion of the
    district courts persons charged with crin18 may be
    sent temporarily to such institutions for observation
    and examination as to their mental condition, as is
                                 19 

         now done in some districts; and further that the Ad­
         ministrative Office be requested to survey the possi­
         bilities of this procedure in the various districts, and
         if agreeable to the respective district courts to arrange
         with the officials of local institutions for the use of
         their facilities for the examination of the mental
         soundness of persons charged with crime; that for this
         purpose the Administrative Office be authorized to use
         the services of the probation officers of the various
         districts. ' ,
       The committee was continued and was instructed to
     study in particular the following matters: (1) psychiatric
     examinations as a matter of course in a class of cases, to
     be determined, in which the offenders are most apt to be
     insane; (2) a procedure in other cases for determining be­
     fore trial the sanity of an accused person; and (3) the
     protection of courts from insane litigants and a suitable
     procedure for dealing with such persons.
       Tort Clai'ms .Against the United States and the Pro­
     ced~H>e for Their Prosecution.-Judge Stone presented the
     report of the Committee on Claims Against the United
     States and the Procedure for Their Prosecution. The
     Conference approved the following recommendations of
     the committee:
            "1. That exclusive original jurisdiction of suits
         based on tort claims against the United States be in
         the District Courts, provided that reasonable notice
          (the time to be fixed by Congress) of the occurrence
         giving rise to such claim be served upon the United
         States attorney in the district in which the case may be
         brought and provided further that as to claims for
         $               or less (being such amount as the Con­
         gress may empower executive departments or agencies
         to settle) the plaintiff shall have presented his claim
         to the proper department or agency and either the
         claim shall have been disallowed by it, in whole or in
         part, or its action upon the claim shall have been un­
         duly delayed.
-

                                                                     1.
                            20
      2. That the appellate jurisdiction be exclusively in
    the courts of appeals, with any further review upon
    writ of certiorari granted by the Supreme Court.
      3. That on any appeal from a judg'ment awarding
    damages the amount awarded below may be increased
    or reduced, where in the opinion of the appellate court
    the amount of the award is clearly wrong."
  Pre-Trial Pt'ocedure in the Federal Courts.-The Con­
ference approved the follo''v-jng conclusions of the Com­
mittee to Study the Use of Pre-Trial Procedure in the
Federal Courts, as presented by Judge Parker, the chair­
man of the committee:
       "(1) The committee is of the opinion that every
     civil case in which issue has been joined should be
     pre-tried before it is assigned for trial, unless there
     are special circumstances which render such a confer­
     ence unnecessary or inexpedient, or UIlI(~ss the case is
     one of such a nature that it appears that pre-trial
     would be of no advantage.
        (2) The committee believes the use of pre-trial
     procedure in criminal eases should be left to the dis­
     cretion of the individual judge.
        (3) The committee considers that settlement is a by­
     product of good pre-trial procedure rather than a pri­
     mary objective to be actively pursued by the judge.
        (4) The committee believes that the question of
     whether the pre-trial conference should be held in
     chambers or in open court is a matter which each
     judge should decide for himself. But in every case,
     wherever the conference is held, the Committee recom­
     mends that an order be entered recording the results
      of the proceedings.
         (5) The committee approves of the practice of tho
      great majority of the judges using pre-trial procedure
      regularly, of holding the pre-trial conference shortly
      before the actual trial is had, the preferable interval
     before the trial being 110t less than one week or more
      than three weeks. In exceptional cases it may also
                                21
        be advantageous to call a pre-trial conference imme­
        diately after issue is joined.
           (6) The committee is impressed with the desira­
        bility of drawing up a pre-trial order while the parties
        are present, setting forth what has been agreed to or
        accomplished at the hearing.
           (7) The committee recommends that the Confer­
        ence request the Attorney General to call to the at­
        tention of all United States attorneys the benefits to
        be gained through pre-trial conferences and the de­
        sirability of their cooperation in securing the advan­
         tages of this procedure in government cases.
            (8) The committee desires to furnish assistance to
        district judges wishing to inaugurate pre-trial pro­
        cedure in their courts or desiring to improve their
        technique of holding pre-trial conferences, and requests
         approval by the Conference of a plan for giving such
        aid, either by sending a judge experienced in pre-trial
        practice to the district of the judge requesting aid, or
        by permitting the latter, upon his request, with the
        approval of his senior circuit judge, to be temporarily
        assigned to a district where pre-trial procedure is be­
        ing effectively used.
            (9) The committee recommends that copies of this
         report be sent to every circuit and district judge in
        the United States and that the Committee be con­
         tinued. "
       Diversity Jurisdiction.-The Conference considered a
     proposal of Circuit Judge William Denman, endorsed by
     the Judicial Conference of the Ninth Circuit, that federal
     court diversity jurisdiction be abolished. The Conference
     concluded that since it did not appear that Congress was
     considering any such proposal, there was no occasion at
     this time to express any opinion with respect to it.
        Legislation Recommended.-The Conference renewed
     its recommendations in support of the jury system bills,
     S. 1623, 1624, 1625; and the bill to remove the civil dis­

-
   abilities of probationers successfully completing their pro­
                             22 

bation, S. 1342 and H.R. 3239. The Conference also re­
newed its recommendation of last year concerning legisla­
tion with respect to applications for habeas corpus in the
federal courts, as stated in the Report of the 1943 Session
of the Conference.
   Provision for the Trial of Minor Offenses by Commis­
sioners.-Chief .Tustice Groner presented the report of
the Committee on the Trial of Minor Offenses, by Com­
missioners. The report recommended legislation to enable
the district courts in their discretion, under such limita­
tions as they might prescribe, to confer upon United States
commissioners power to accept pleas Df guilty and impose
sentences in all cases in which the defendant is charged
with a petty offense as defined by statute, without being
restricted, as at present, to such offenses as are committed
upon federal reservations. The committee was continued
and the Director was instructed to circulate the report
among the circuit and district judges wi.th the request that
they submit their views upon the proposed legislation.
   The Representation of Indigent Litigants in the Fed­
eral Courts.-The report of the Committee to Consider the
Adequacy of Existing Provisions for the Prot(~ction of the
Rights of Indigent Litigants in the Federal Courts, of which
Judge Augm;;tus N. Hand is chairman, was :mbmitted to the
Conference. The committee recommended that each dis­
trict court be authorized in its discretion to appoint a pub­
lic defender substantially as provided in the pending pub.
lic defender bill (H.R. 676) ; or that in the alternative the
district court in a district not having a city of more than
500,000 population, be authorized to compensate from the
public funds counsel appointed to represent poor defen··
dants in particular cases, at a rate not in excess of $25 a
day, and to r(~imburse them for their expenses, the aggre­
gate amount to be so expended in any district to be not more
than $3,000 per year. The Conference continued the com­
mittee and directed the circulation of its report among the
circuit and district judges with a request for an expres­
sion of their views upon the proposed plan. The cornmit­
                                     23
        tee was also requested to continue its study of the problem
        of indigent litigants in both criminal and civil cases, in­
        cluding the application to such cases of the provisions gov­
        erning proceedings in forma pauperis.
           Committees Continued.---No reports were submitted by
        the Committee on a Specinl Court of Patent Appeals, the
        Committee to Consider Methods of Improving the Existing
        Scheme of Collecting and Compiling Ff~deral Judicial
        Statistics by the Administrative Office, and the Committee
        to Consider the Proposal that the Statute (18 U. S. O.
          541) Be Amended so as to Make the Definition of "Fel­
        ony" Depend UpOll the Punishment Actually Inflicted,
        rather than That vvnich Could Lawfully Be Imposed. The
        Conference directed that these committees be continued.
        The Chief .Justice, with the approval of the Conference,
        appointed Circuit Judge Charles E. Clark to be chairman
        of the commi ttce on impro\'ement of the judicial statistics,
-., 	   and added hvo Hew members, Circuit Judge Herbert F.
        Goodrich and District .T udge Archibald B. Lovett. As
        reconstituted the committee consists of Circuit .Judge
        Charl(!s E. Clark, Chairman, Circuit Judges William Den­
        man and Herbert F~. Goodrich, District Judges William H.
        Kirkpatrick, Archibald B. Lovett and Royce H. Savage.
           Committees Appointed.-Pursuant to resolutions of the
        Conference the Chief Justice appointed the following com­
        mittees, with the request that they report their recom­
        mendations at the next session of the Confelence:
          A committee to consider the recommendation of the
        Judicial Conference of the Ninth Circuit that provision be
        made for expediting appeals in those cases in which there
        are conflicting decisions by district courts within the same
        circuit, or in wbich decision will affect numerous cases,
        or in which the public interest otherwise requires it, con­
        sisting or Judge Stone, Chairman, District Judges Alfred
        E. Coxe and Benjamin Harrison.
          A committee to consider the recommendation of the
        Judicial Conference of the Ninth Circuit that discretion
        be given to reviewing courts to consider appeals in crim­
                            24 

inal cases when the sentence of imprisonment has been
served, and it appears that the continuance of the judg­
ment on the record would work injustice, consisting of Cir­
cuit Judge William Denman, Chairman, Circuit .Tudge Ed­
win R. Holmes, District Justice Matthew F. McGuire, and
District Judge Robert N. Wilkin.
  A committee to consider the advisability of regulating
admission to the bar of the federal courts by uniform rules,
consisting of Circuit Judge Thomas F. McAllister, Chair­
man, District Judges Luther M. Swygert, Guy L. Fake and
Harry A. HoUzeI'.
  A committee on the codification and revision of the Crim­
inal and Judicial Codes now in progress under the direc­
tion of the Committee of the House of Representatives on
Revision of the Laws, consisting of Circuit Judge Albert B.
Maris, Chairman, Justice Harold M. Stephens, District
Judges Clarence G. Galston and William F. Smith.
  A committee to (~onsider postwar building plans for the
quarters of the United States courts, consisting of Circuit
Judge John B. Sanborn, Chairman, District Justice James
M. Proctor, District Judges Marion S. Boyd, Randolph
Bryant, W. Calvin Chesnut, John C. Knox and Harry E.
Watkins.               .
  Standing Rule as to Reports of Committees.-The COll­
ference adopted a standing rule that all reports of com­
mittees be submitted at least thirty days in advance of the
September session of the Judicial Conference.
  Advisory Committee.-The Conference continued the
committee, consisting of the Chief Justice, Judges Biggs,
Parker and Stone, and Chief Justice Groner, to advise and
assist the Director in the performance of his duties.
  The Conference declared a recess, subject to the call
of the Chief Justice.
  For the Judicial Conference:
                                   HARLAN   F. STONE,
                                            Chief Justice
November 7, 1944.
                         APPENDIX.
FEES TO BE CHARGED BY COURT REPORTERS FOR TRANSCRIPTS OF JUDI­

  CIAL PROCEEDINGS IN THE UNITED STATES COURTS, APPROVED, PUR­

    SUANT TO SECTION 5A(C) OF THE JUDICIAL CODE, BY THE JU­

        DICIAL CONFERENCE OF SENIOR CIRCUIT JUDGES AT 

                  ITS SEPTEMBER SESSION, 1944. 


  The Conference approved the fees per page shown below, based
upon a page conforming to the following specifications:
     A page shall consist of 25 lines written on paper 8lh by 11
     inches in size, prepared for binding on the left side, with
     1% inch margin on the left side and % inch margin on
    the right side. Typing shall be 10 letters to the inch.
     The average llumber of words per page shall be not less
    than 250 words or 21;2 folios of 100 words.
With the approval of the 'Court in any district the cost of the
original and copies may be apportioned among the person.'S to
whom they are furnished, provided that the total does not exceed
the sum of the separate rates prescribed below:
                                                      Additional
        Distriet            Original     1st OOPY      Oopies
 District of Columbia..... 4O¢              15¢         15¢
FmsT CIRCUIT
  Alaine ................ . 25¢             12lh¢       12lh¢
 Massachusetts .......... . 37lh;           17%¢        15¢
 New Hampshire ........ . 25;               12%¢        12lh¢
 Rhode Island .......... . 25¢              25¢         15¢
 Puerto Rico ........... . 50¢              15;         15¢
SECOND CIRCUIT
   Connecticut ............ . 25¢           25;         15¢
   New York, Northern .... . 37lh¢          15;         15¢
   New York, Eastern ..... . 40¢            15¢         15¢
   New York, Southern .... . 40¢            15¢         15;
   New York, Western .... . 25¢             25¢         15¢
   Vermont .............. . 37%¢            15¢         15¢
TIIIRD CIRCUIT
   Delaware .............. . 40;           15¢          15;
   New Jersey ............ . 40¢           15¢          15¢
   Pennsylvania, Eastern         40¢       15¢          15;
   Pennsylvania, Middle .. . 30¢           20¢          15;
   Penn.'>ylvania, \Vestern .. . 40¢       15¢          15¢
   Virgin Islands ......... . 30¢          20¢          15¢
FOURTH CIRCUIT
  Maryland .............. . 40¢            15¢          15;
   North Carolina, Eastern .. 15¢           711z¢        7lh¢
   North Carolina, Middle ... 37%;         1211z¢       12%;
  North Carolina, Western .. 12%¢          1211z¢       12%;
n                                 APPENDIX

Fourth Oircuit (continued)
                                                           Additiona~
           District           Original          1st Copy     Oopies
    South Carolina, Eastern     30¢               15¢        151
    South Carolina, Western. 30¢                  15¢        15¢
    Virginia, Easte~n ...... . 401                15¢        15¢
    Virginia, Western ...... . 35¢                15¢        10¢
    West Virginia, Northern .. 401                15¢        151
    West Virginia, Southern .. 401                151        15¢
FIFTH CmcUIT
    Alabama, Northern ..... .          37lh¢     15¢         15¢
     Alabama, Middle ....... .         25¢       12lh¢       12Yz¢
    Alabama, Southern ..... .          37lh¢     151         15¢
    Florida, Northern ...... .         301       15¢         15¢
    Florida, Southern ....... .        30¢       15¢         15¢
    Georgia, Northern ...... .         30¢       15¢         15¢
    Georgia, Middle ........ .         30¢       15t         15¢
    Georgia, Southern ...... .         25¢       12 ih¢      12lh¢
    Louisiana,. Eastern ..... .        30¢       15¢         15¢
    Louisiana, Western ..... .         30¢       15¢         15¢
    Mississippi, Northern ... .        30¢       15¢         15¢
    ML'lsissippi, Southern ... .       301       15¢         15¢
    Texas, Northern ........ .         40¢        15¢        15¢
    Texas, F..:a.':ltern ......... .   40¢       15¢         15¢
    'l'exas, Southern ....... .        40¢       15¢         15¢
    Texas. Western ........ .          40¢       15¢         15¢
    Canaf Zone ............ .          40,       15¢         15¢
SIXTH CIRCUIT
    Kentucky, Eastern                  37%¢                  12%¢
    Kentucky, \Vestern                 37lh¢                 12lh¢
    Michigan, Eastern                  401                   15¢
    Michigan, Western                  37lh1                 12lh¢
    Ohio, Northern
      Eastern Division                 401       15¢         151
      Western Division                 30¢       15¢         15¢
    Ohio, Southern ......... .         40¢       15¢         15¢
    Tennes.'lee, Eastern ..... .       35¢       15¢         15¢
    Tennessee, Middle ...... .         40¢       15¢         15¢
    Tennessee, Western                 40¢       151         15¢
SEVENTH CIRCUIT
    Illinois, Northern ....... .       251       15¢         15¢
    Illinois. Eastern ........ .       35¢       151         15¢
    Illinois: Southern ....... .       35¢       15¢         1St
    Indiana, Northern ...... .         351       15¢         151
    Indiana, Southern                  35¢       15¢         15¢
    Wisconsin. Eastern                 33 1h¢    12lh¢       12%¢
    Wisconsin; V,T estern ..... .      35¢       12lh¢       12%¢
                               APPENDIX                        m
                                                        AdditioMl
           District             Odginal      1st Copy    Copies
IijIGIITH CIRCUIT
  Arkansas, Eastern                 35¢       15¢         10¢
  AT kansas, Western                3fi¢      15¢         10¢
  Iowa. Northern ......... .        30¢       12lh¢       12%¢
  Iowa. Southern ........ .         30¢       12lh¢       12%¢
  Minnesota ............. .         35¢       10¢         10¢
  Missouri, Eastern ....... .       3711z¢    15¢         15¢
  :frfissouri, We.<;tern ...... .   3711z¢    15¢         15¢
  Nebraska ......... _.... .        35¢       15¢         15¢
  North Dakota .......... .         35¢'      12lh¢       12%¢
  South Dakota .......... .         35¢       12%¢        12lh¢
NINTH CIRCUIT
  Arizona ..... _......... .        37lh¢     12lh¢       12%¢
  California, Northern ... .        40¢       15¢         15¢
  California, Southern ... .        40¢       15¢         15¢
  Idaho ................. .         37lh¢     12lh¢       12%¢
  Montana .............. .          37lh¢     12lh¢       12%¢
  Nevada ................ .         37lh¢     12%¢        12lh¢
  Oregon ...... __ ........ .       40¢       15¢         15¢
  Washington, Eastern ... .         40¢       12lh¢       12;'H
  \Vashington, 'Western ... .       40¢       15¢         15¢
  Alaska, }<'irst Division ... .    50¢       15¢         15¢
  Abska, Seeond Division ..         50¢       15¢         15¢
  Alaska, Third Division ...        50¢       15¢         15¢
  Ala;;ka, }<'ourth Division ..     50¢       15¢         15¢
  Hawaii ................ .         37lh¢      lS¢        15¢
T EN'rIr   CIRCUIT
  Colorado .............. . 40¢                15¢        1211z¢
  Kansas ................ . 37lh¢              12lh¢      12%¢
  Ncw Mexico ........... . 37%¢                12%¢       12%¢
  Oklahoma, Northern .... . 40¢                15¢        12%¢
  Oklahoma, Eastern ..... . 37%¢               12lh¢      12%¢
  Oldalioma, \Vestern ... . 40¢                15¢        12%¢
  Utah .................. . 3711z¢             12%¢       12%¢
  Wyoming .............. . 37lh¢               12lh¢      1211z¢
   Rates for daily copy shall not be more than one and one-half
times the rates above prescribed. Rates for honrly copy may be
fixed by agreement between the reporter and the persons ordering
such copy or may be prescribed by the court.
   A party shall be entitled to procure a transcript at the rates
above pre'lcribed without being required to purchase any addi­
tional copy.




                                                                    1
