                                  APPE~DIX

REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF A SPECIAL SESSION
  OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED
  STATES
   Pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice, issued February 16,
1950, the Judicial Conference of the United States met in special
session on Thursday, March 9,1950. The following were present:
   The Chief Justice, presiding.
    Circuit: 

         District of Columbia: 

               Chief Judge HAROLD M. SrrEPHENs. 

         First: 

               Chief Judge CALVERT MAGRUDER. 

         Second: 

               Chief Judge LEARNED HAND. 

         Third: 

               Chief Judge JOHN BIGGS, Jr. 

         Fourth: 

               Chief Judge JOHN J. PARKER. 

         Fifth: 

               Chief Judge JOSEtPH C. HUTCHESON, Jr. 

         Sixth: 

               Circuit Judge CHARLES C. SaIONs.* 

         Seventh: 

               Chief Judge J. EARL MAJOR. 

         Eighth: 

               Chief Judge ARCHIBALD K. GARDNER. 

         Tenth: 

               Chief Judge DRlE L. PHILLIPS. 

  Hon. Arthur F. Lederle, Chief Judge, United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Michigan; Hon. Finis J. Garrett,
Chief Judge, United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals;
  ·Chief JudgE' Xenophon Hicks of the Sixth JUdicial Circuit was unable to attend and,
pursuant to his suggestion, .Tudge Sim.ons was desig'nated by the Chief Justice to attend
In his stead: Chief Judge William Denman of the ~lntll Judicial Circuit was unable to
attend and, because of the pressure of tlle court business in the Circuit, be suggested
no alternate for deSignation to attend in his stead.
                                          (231)
                                           232 

Hon. Marvin Jones, Chief Judge, United States Court of Claims;
and Hon. Webster J. Oliver, Chief Judge, United States Customs
Court, were in attendance for part of the session, and participated
in the discussions relative to Retirement of Judges.
   Henry P. Chandler, DirectoOr; Elmore ''''bitehurst, Assistant
Director; Will Shafroth, Chief, Division of Procedural Studies and
Statistics; and Leland Tolman, Chief, Division of Business Ad­
ministration; all of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, were in attendance throughout the session.l
  Paul L. Kelley, Executive Secretary to the Chief Justice, served
as Secretary of the Meeting.
  Judges-Retirement of.-The Conference entered upon a gen­
eral discussion of the subject of retirement of judges of the United
States as defined in § 451 of Title 28, United States Code, and the
recent communication from the Chairman of the United States
Civil Service Commission with respect toO possible coverage of such
judges by the provisions of the Civil Service Retirement Act.
Thereupon, the Conference took the following action:
        Whereas, the Chairman of the United States Civil Service
     Commission having expressed the view that judges of the
     United States as defined in § 451, Title 28, United States
     Code, are subject to the provisions of the Civil Service Retire­
     ment Act, as amended, and the Director of the Administrative
     Office having requested instructions in the premises, now,
     pursuant to the provisions of § 604 of Title 28, United States
     Code, it is
        Resolved that, It is the sense of the Conference that judges
     of the United States, as defined under § 451 of Title 28, United
     States Code, are not subject to the provisions of the Civil
     Service Retirement Act;
        It is not incumbent upon such judges to make any election
     between the retirement provisions of that Act and the retire­
     ment provisions of §§ 371 and 372 of Title 28, United States
     Code, and
        The Director of the Administrative Office is hereby directed
     to make no deductions from the salaries of such judges be­
     cause of the provisions of the Civil Service Retirement Act.
  Courts-Places of holding court.-The Director stated that
numerous legislative proposals had been introduced in the Con­
gress which, if enacted, would designa.te certain localities as a
uplace of holding court," and inquiries were being directed to him
  1 For convenience, the Director of the Administrative Offiee of the Gnited States Courts,
and the Administrative Office of the Gnited States Courts, are hereinafter referred to as
the Director, and tile Administrative Office, respectively.
                                           233 

for an expression as to the views of the Judicial Conference con­
,cerning such proposals.
    The Conference reaffirmed the views previously expressed with
~Tespect to its attitude concerning the overall policy question in­
 volved 2 and, in connection with the immediate situation, con­
,duded that such deterplination was a matter within the province
 and discretion of the Judicial Councils of the respective circuits
involved. The Conference authorized the Director to communi­
 cate or confer with the Judicial Councils of the Circuits in which
the suggested places of holding court are located for the purpose
·of ascertaining their views on the specific proposals, and instructed
 him to be governed by the views so expressed.
    Court records-Maintenance and keeping of.-The Director
:advised that the Clerk of the United States District Court for the
 Northern District of California has requested authorization for the
 installation of a system of microfilming records similar to the sys­
 tems recently authorized and installed in the District Courts for
the District of Columbia and the Southern District of New York.
 The Chief Judge of the District Court concerned has approved the
 request and is anxious for the change to be effectuated as promptly
,as possible.
    The Director submitted a form of directive authorizing this
 ,change and requested approval thereof by the Conference. Pur­
  suant to the provisions of Rule '79 Cb) of the Federal Rules of
  Civil Procedure, and Rule 55 of the Federal Rules of Criminal
  Procedure, the Conference approved the proposed directive and
  authorized the prompt installation of the microfilming method of
  preserving certain records in the United States District Court for
  the Northern District of California.
    Commissioners, United States-Method of compensation.­
  The Director informed the Conference that a bill CH. R. 4452)
  had been introduced in the Congress to "provide that United
  States Commissioners shall be paid an annual salary to be fixed by
  the Judicial Conference of the United States" which, if enacted,
  would eliminate the present fee system of compensation, and that
  in response to an inquiry directed to him by the Chairman of the
  Committee on the Judiciary, House of Representatives, Honorable
  Emanuel Celler, he had advised as follows:
         In answer to your inquiry of June 23rd [1949] concerning
       a bill to provide that United States commissioners shall be
  • Conf. Report, Sept. 1948, pp. 33-34.
                           234 

paid an annual salary to be fixed by the Judicial Conference
of the United States (H. R. 4452) I would say that this bill
provides for changing the compensation of United States com­
missioners from a fee to a salary basis.
  The fees presently payable to United States commissioners
are fixed by § 633 of Title 28 of the United States Code. This
in substance incorporates the provisions of an act revising the
fees of United States commissioners approved August 1, 1946
(60 Stat. 752-753). That act was recommended by the Judi­
cial Conference of the United States in accordance with the
report of a committee, consisting of District Judge Carroll C.
Hincks of Connecticut, chairman, and District Judges W. Cal­
vin Chestnut of Maryland, James Alger Fee of Oregon, Gun­
nar H. Nordbye of Minnesota, J. Foster Symes of Colorado,
and George C. Taylor of Eastern Tennessee. The act very
much simplified the previous fee structure and also somewhat
increased the yield of the fees to meet a justified complaint
of commissioners that their compensation under the old law
was not adequate.
   The Judicial Conference, under which I act, has not con­
sidered the bill to place the compensation of United States.
commissioners upon a salary basis. In view, however, of the
consideration of the subject of compensation for commission­
ers by the Judicial Conference when the schedule of fees was
revised by the act of 1946 which has been cited it may be
proper to say this. Ideally a salary system of compensating
public officers is always preferable to a fee system. The com­
mittee of the Judicial Conference after considering the matter
of a salary plan in connection with its study of the commis­
sioner system concluded, however, that in reference to United
States commissioners, it would be impracticable. This is
because of the large number of United States commissioners,
who were 648 on June 30, 1948, [674 on November 14, 1949]
and the wide variation in the volume of their services and
their resulting compensation ranging from a few matters for
which the fees are trifling, to virtually full-time work, the
compensation for which may run to a maximum of $9,376.50.
   The pending bill amends § 633 (a) of Title 28 of the United
States Code to authorize the Judicial Conference of the United
States to fix the salaries of United States commissioners some­
what in the manner that it fixes the salaries of referees in
bankruptcy under the Bankruptcy Act. There are, however,
only 163 authorized referees' positions in contrast with the'
648 [now 674] positions of United States commissioners at
the end of the fiscal year 1948. Also there is no control by
the Judicial Conference of the United States upon the number
of United States commissioners because each district court
may appoint such number as it deems advisable. There is
almost every gradation in amount of service of United States
                               235 

     commissioners from slight service with nominal compensation
     to the sum about $9,000 above mentioned. All the reasons
     from the standpoint of impracticability which led the com­
     mittee of the Judicial Conference to decide against a salary
     system for United States commissioners in its report to the
     Judicial Conference in 1943 and the Conference to approve
     its report, exist today.
  The Director advised further that hearings on the proposed
measure were being conducted by a subcommittee of the Com­
mittee on the Judiciary, and that pursuant to the subcommittee's
request he had appeared before it and made substantially the same
statement as that which appears in his letter to the Chairman of
the full committee.
   The Conference reaffirmed its approval of the recommendations
of the Hincks Committee dealing with a salary system of compen­
sation for commissioners, previously approved by the Conference
in September, 1943, and approved the position taken by the
Director in connection with the proposed legislation.
  Budget estimates-Fiscal year 1950.-The Director advised that
an analysis of present conditions with respect to the appropriation
account covering monies available for the purpose of defraying
expenses incident to the payment of jurors' fees indicated that a
rather subst.antial deficiency would be incurred in this particular
account. He requested the Conference to authorize him to seek
the additional amounts deemed necessary to properly take care
of this item. Thereupon, the Conference authorized and directed
the Director to seek such additional funds as may be required for
the purpose outlined.
   There being no further business to come before the Conference,
the Conference declared a recess subject to the call of the Chief
Justice.
   For the Judicial Conference of the United States:
                                          FRED   M. VINSON,
                                                   Chief Justice.

  Dated: Washington, D. C., March 16, 1950.
