          REPORT 

           of the
    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

       UNITED STATES 





       September 15·16, 1977




         Washington, D.C.
              1977
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 



        Rowland F. Kirks 

           Director 

          REPORT 

           of the
    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

       UNITED STATES 





       September 15-16, 1977




         Washington, D.C.
              1977
  THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331

§ 331.   JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES



  The Chief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge
of each judicial circuit, the chief judge of the Court of Claims, the chief judge of
the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, and a district judge from each judicial
circuit to a conference at such time and place in the United States as he may
designate. He shall preside at such conference which shall be known as the Judi­
cial Conference of the United States. Special sessions of the conference may be
called by the Chief Justice at such times and places as he may designate.
  The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by
the circuit and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of
the circuit held pursuant to section 333 of this title and shall serve as a member
of the conference for three successive years, except that in the year following the
enactment of this amended section the judges in the first, fourth, seventh, and
tenth circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for one year, the judges in the
second, fifth, and eight circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for two years
and the judges in the third, sixth, ninth, and District of Columbia circuits shall
choose a district judge to serve for three years.
  If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the
circuit is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon any other circuit or
district judge from such circuit. If the chief judge of the Court of Claims or the
chief judge of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals is unable to attend, the
Chief Justice may summon an associate judge of such court. Every judge sum­
moned shall attend and, unless excused by the Chief Justice, shall remain
throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to the needs of his circuit
or court and as to any matters in respect of which the administration of justice in
the courts of the United States may be improved.
  The conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business
in the courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to
or from circuits or districts where necessary, and shall submit suggestions to the
various courts, in the interest of uniformity and expedition of business.
  The conference shall also carryon a continuous study of the operation and
effect of the general rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as
prescribed by the Supreme Court for the other courts of the United States pur­
suant to law. Such changes in and additions to those rules as the conference may
deem desirable to promote simplicity in procedure, fairness in administration,
the just determination of litigation, and the elimination of unjustifiable expense
and delay shall be recommended by the conference from time to time to the Su­
preme Court for its consideration and adoption, modification or rejection, in ac­
cordance with law.
  The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice, report to such
conference on matters relating to the business of the several courts of the United
States, with particular reference to cases to which the United States is a party.
  The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings
of the Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.

                                        (iv)
                     TABLE OF CONTENTS

            REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

            OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 

     OF THE UNITED STATES, SEPTEMBER 15-16, 1977 


                                                                    Page
Call of the Conference ................................... , 
      45 

Report of the Director of the Administrative Office 

  of the United States Courts ............................ . 
      47 

Committee on Court Administration ...................... . 
        48 

    Status of Senior Judges .............................. . 
      48 

    Office of the Clerk of Court ......................... . 
      48 

    Disbursement Function .............................. . 
        48 

     Legislation .......................................... . 
     49 

       Administrative Law Judges ........................ . 
       49 

       Civil Service Annuity Payments to Judges ........... . 
     50 

       Bilingual Courts Act ............................... . 
     50 

       Telecommunications Privacy Act ................... . 
       51 

       Diversity Jurisdiction .............................. . 
    52 

       Panel on Multidistrict Litigation .................... . 
   52 

       Labor Court ...................................... . 
       52 

       Salaries .............. " ........................... . 
    52 

       Federal Right to Support .......................... . 
      53 

       Minimum Level for Retirement Salaries ............ . 
       53 

       Witness Fees ...................................... . 
      53 

       Speedy Trial Act .................................. . 
      53 

     Biennial Survey of Judgeship Needs .................. . 
      54 

    Supporting Personnel ............................... . 
        54 

       Satellite Libraries .................................. . 
   54 

       Court Reporters ................................... . 
      55 

       Senior Staff Attorneys-Courts of Appeals .......... . 
      56 

       Lexis Operators ................................... . 
      57 

Committee on the Budget ................................ . 
        57 

     Appropriations for Fiscal year 1978 .................. . 
     57 

     Budget Estimates for Fiscal Year 1979 ................ . 
     58 

     Civil Arbitration-Pilot Program ..................... . 
      59 

Review Committee ...................................... . 
         59 

                                 (v)
                                                    (vi)
                                                                                                        Page

Joint Committee on the Code of Judicial Conduct. . . . . . . . . .                                      60 

Advisory Committee on Judicial Activities .................                                             61 

Committee on the Administration of the Federal 

  Magistrates System .....................................                                              62 

    Amendments to the Magistrates Act. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               62 

    Bankruptcy Legislation ...............................                                              63 

    Qualification Standards and Selection Procedures. . . . . .                                         63 

    Salaries of Magistrates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             63 

    Change in Administrative Regulations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               64 

    Investigations of Misconduct. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     64 

    Changes in Magistrate Positions .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          64 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Bankruptcy System ....................................                                                69 

    Salaries and Arrangements for Referees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                69 

    Refereees' Salary and Expense Fund ..................                                               71 

    Legislation ..........................................                                              71 

Ad Hoc Committee on Bankruptcy Legislation. . . . . . . . . . . . .                                     72 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Probation System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         73 

    Mandatory Retirement ...............................                                                73 

    Statistical Program ...................................                                             74 

    Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   75 

      H.R. 5792 .........................................                                               75 

      Pretrial Services Agencies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   76 

    Sentencing Institutes .................................                                             78 

    Presentence Report Monograph. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           78 

    Probation Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             79 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Criminal Law ..........................................                                               79 

    Grand Jury Reform ..................................                                                79 

    Release of Persons Pending Appearance 

      in Another District .................................                                             79 

    Federal Criminal Code ...............................                                               80 

Committee on the Operation of the Jury System ...........                                               82 

    Conduct of Voir Dire Examination..... .. ...... .......                                             82 

    Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   83 

      H.R. 7809, 7810 and 7813 ..........................                                               83 

      Grand Jury Reform ................................                                                84 

    Review of ABA Trial Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         84 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments. . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . ..                               84 

Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act. .. . . .....                                           85 

    Appointments and Payments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        85 

    Budget Requests .....................................                                               86 

    Parole Commission and Reorganization Act . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    87 

                                               (vii)
                                                                                                  Page
    Amendments to the Criminal Justice Act ..............                                         88 

Committee on the Rules of Practice and Procedure. . . . . . . . .                                 91 

    Appellate Rules ......................................                                        91 

    Criminal Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   91 

Committee on Pacific Territories. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               92 

    Guam...............................................                                           92 

    American Samoa .....................................                                          92 

    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands ......                                           93 

    Truncated Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. . . . . . .                                 94 

Report of the Committee on the Bicentennial of 

  Independence and the Constitution .....................                                         94 

Committee to Consider Standards for Admission to 

  Practice in the Federal Courts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             95 

Pretermission of Terms of the Courts of Appeals ..........                                        95 

Release of Conference Action. " . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .                 95 

     Report of the Proceedings 

           of the Judicial 

   Conference of the United States 


                 September 15-16, 1977


  The Judicial Conference of the United States con~
vened on September 15, 1977, pursuant to the call of
the Chief Justice of the United States issued under
28 U.S.C. 331. The following members of the Con­
ference were present:

First Circuit:
     Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin
     Chief Judge Andrew A. Caffrey, District of Massachusetts
Second Circuit:
    Chief Judge Irving R. Kaufman
    Chief Judge T. Emmet Clarie, District of Connecticut
Third Circuit:
    Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz
    Chief Judge Lawrence A. Whipple, District of New Jersey
Fourth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr. 

    Judge Charles E. Simons, Jr., District of South Carolina 

Fifth Circuit:
     Chief Judge John R. Brown
     Chief Judge William C. Keady, Northern District of Mississippi
Sixth Circuit:
     Chief Judge Harry Phillips
     Chief Judge Damon J. Keith, Eastern District of Michigan
Seventh Circuit:
    Chief Judge Thomas E. Fairchild
    Chief Judge James B. Parsons, Northern District of Illinois
Eighth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Floyd R. Gibson
    Chief Judge James H. Meredith, Eastern District of Missouri
                                45
                                             46 

Ninth Circuit:
    Chief Judge James R. Browning
    Chief Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Eastern District of
      California
Tenth Circuit:
    Chief Judge David T. Lewis* 

    Judge Wesley E. Brown, District of Kansas 

District of Columbia Circuit:
     Chief Judge David L. Bazelon 

     Chief Judge William B. Bryant, District of Columbia 

Court of Claims:
    Acting Chief Judge Oscar H. Davis
Court of Customs and Patent Appeals:
    Chief Judge Howard T. Markey
   Circuit Judges Robert A. Ainsworth, Jr. and Edward
A. Tamm; Senior Circuit Judge Richard H. Chambers;
District Judges Wesley E. Brown, Charles M. Metzner
and Edward Weinfeld; and Senior District Judges Dud·
ley B. BonsaI, Arthur J. Stanley, Jr., Carl A. Weinman,
Albert C. Wollenberg and Alfonso J. Zirpoli attended all
or some of the sessions of the Conference.
   Members of the Anglo-American Exchange who were
meeting in Washington at the time of the Conference at­
tended, by invitation, at the opening session on the first
day of the Conference, as did the Honorable Griffin B.
Bell, Attorney General of the United States, and the Hon­
orable Wade H. McCree, Solicitor General of the United
States.
   The Honorable Edward M. Kennedy, a member of the
Judiciary Committee of the United States Senate, ad­
dressed the Conference at its second session on September
16.
   Professor A. Leo Levin, Director of the Federal Judicial
Center, presented the annual report of the Center. The
report of the Panel on Multidistrict Litigation was sub­
mitted for the record.
   Also in attendance were Mark W. Cannon, Administra­
tive Assistant to the Chief Justice, William E. Foley, Dep­
  .On designation of .he Chief Justice. Judge Oliver Se.h auended in place of Chief Judge David T.
Lewis.
                             47 

uty Director, and Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Assistant Director
of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.


               REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR 

          OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

           OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 

   The report of the Director of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts, Mr. Rowland F. Kirks, was
approved by the Conference for distribution to all federal
judges, as was Mr. Kirks' second annual report on the im­
 plementation of the Speedy Trial Act of 1974 which, by
statute, must be submitted to the Congress by September
30, 1977.
   The Director's annual report on the work of the federal
courts in the past year shows once again a rise in the fil­
ings in the courts of appeals. In the year ending June 30
 new case filings rose over the prior year by 3.9 percent.
The new filings were 63.9 percent greater than in 1970.
   In the district courts new case filings in civil litigation
remained relatively stationary. The type of cases filed,
however, showed some change.
   There were fewer prisoner suits--there was a substan­
tial decrease in petitions for black lung benefits, in land
condemnation cases and in the number of ICC regulation
cases. Increases were noted in civil rights filings, in
copyright, patent and trade-mark suits and in the foreclo­
sures of federally mortgaged property.
   The number of felony and misdemeanor cases in the
district courts dropped by more than eight percent during
 1977. There was a marked decrease in the number of
robbery and assault cases prosecuted in the federal courts.
Drug law prosecutions declined 22 percent.
   Bankruptcy filings decreased in the year ending June
30, 1977, by 13 percent; 85 percent of all of the filings in
that period were in the non-business bankruptcy category.
   The work of the United States magistrates increased
markedly. The total number of matters handled rose by
almost 14 percent. Pretrial conferences, motions, prisoner
petitions and post-indictment arraignments conducted by
magistrates showed a 32 percent increase over the prior
year.
                              48 

    In the area of juror utilization, the federal courts con­
 tinued to make progress, with the percentage of jurors
 called but not selected declining from almost 33 percent in
 1971 to 24 percent in 1977.


     COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
   Judge Robert A. Ainsworth, Jr. Chairman of the Com­
 mittee on Court Administration, presented the commit­
 tee's report.

                  STATUS OF SENIOR JUDGES
    Pursuant to a motion made at the March session of the
 Judicial Conference, the Committee presented a report
 containing a summary of the current regulations and
 practices affecting senior judges. The Conference ap­
 proved the release of this report to all federal judges and
 in so doing also approved a recommendation that all
 courts should make a continuing study of the space needs
 of the courts as related to the senior judge potential of
 each of them.
    The Conference further approved a resolution provid­
 ing that any judge assuming senior status may retain a
 court reporter in permanent status for as long as he con­
 tinues to take at least 75 percent of the draw of annual
 case filings assigned to judges in active status, as certified
 annually by the chief judge of the district.

               OFFICE OF THE CLERK OF COURT
     The Conference approved and authorized distribution
  of a mission statement of the office of the clerk of court.
  This statement, originally prepared by a group of clerks of
  court, was subsequently approved by all clerks of the dis­
  trict courts and by the Conference of Metropolitan Chief
  Judges which is held under the auspices of the Federal
. Judicial Center.

                  DISBURSEMENT FUNCTION
   The Conference was advised that the Administrative
 Office has been conducting a pilot study in four district
 courts for the purpose of determining the amount of time
                             49
and the effort involved in transferring to the office of the
clerk of court the disbursement function now handled by
the United States marshal. The Conference was advised
that the Office of the General Counsel of the Administra­
tive Office and the marshal's office have agreed that the
transfer of the disbursement function is consistent with
the statutes and is agreeable to both offices. The United
States marshal has been serving in his capacity of dis­
bursement officer for the courts as a carry-over function
from the days before the establishment of the Administra­
tive Office when such functions were centralized in the
Department of Justice. The Conference was satisfied that
the experience of the Administrative Office with the pilot
project leads to the conclusion that the transfer of the dis­
bursement function to the clerk of court is feasible and
will not unduly burden the office of the clerk of court.
The Conference agreed with the views of the Committee
and the Administrative Office that the transfer of this
function is in the furtherance of the separation of powers
and the independence of the federal judiciary and, ac­
cordingly, approved the recommendation to authorize
and designate to the clerks of court the responsibility for
the disbursement of funds.

                        LEGISLATION

Administrative Law Judges
  The Conference voted its disapproval of H.R 865, 95th
Congress, a bill which would give legislative sanction to the
term "Administrative Law Judge" which is currently per­
mitted by Civil Service regulation for all hearing examin­
ers in the executive branch and would further provide
that the salaries of all such hearing officers would be 90
percent of the salaries of a United States district judge.
The Conference noted that there are now more than
1,000 such hearing examiners in 29 departments and·
agencies who conduct hearings for their agencies and re­
solve many matters administratively. In some cases the
proceedings are not adversary in nature and in others the
hearing examiner is an arm of his agency in policy and
rule-making. The Judicial Conference which has histori­
cally opposed proposals in the past to give legislative sanc­
                             50 

tion to the title "Administrative Law Judge" agrees with
the recommendation of the Committee that it adhere to
this policy and opposes H. R. 865, both as to change of the
title and as to the salary change.
Civil Service Annuity Payments to Judges
The Conference voted its disapproval of H.R. 4320, a bill
which would amend chapter 83 of Title 5, United States
Code, to discontinue Civil Service annuity payments while
a person serves in active status as a justice or judge of the
United States. The bill would apply to any justice or judge
appointed after the enactment of the legislation. The Con­
ference was of the view that H.R. 4320 would result in no
substantial savings to the government, since most persons
who would be affected by the bill would undoubtedly re­
fuse judicial appointment. Thus, it would effectively
freeze out of federal judicial service many former employ­
ees of the federal government who are entitled to a Civil
Service annuity.
Bilingual Courts Act
      The Conference considered two draft bills which
would have the effect of putting into legislation the pres­
ent rules relating to the use of interpreters and would give
the Director of the Administrative Office further author­
ity with relation to the maintenance of a list of interpreters
in the district courts and the use of translation services.
Both bills were essentially the same with the exception that
the second bill provided for the optional use of the
Spanish language in the federal courts of Puerto Rico.
The Conference expressed its preference for the first bill,
subject to clarification requested by the Tenth Circuit,
pointing out that while the (iecision as to the use of the
Spanish language in the federal courts of Puerto Rico is
essentially a matter of policy for legislative determination,
nevertheless, certain practical considerations must be con­
sidered if such use of the Spanish language is to be per­
mitted, namely, that such legislation would effectively
bring to an end the intercircuit assignment of judges to
serve in Puerto Rico which has become almost continuous
to assist the judges of Puerto Rico with the enormous
backlog of actions which they face. It would result in the
filing in federal courts of many cases now restricted to the
                            51 

Commonwealth courts because of language barriers and
thus bring an enormous increase to the already heavily
burdened federal courts; enormous delays in expenses
would be incurred in moving cases on appeal to the first
Circuit where all documents and briefs and transcripts
would have to be in the English language; it would place
an enormous burden on the court reporter system in
Puerto Rico where a study conducted three years ago
makes it clear that very few court reporters who speak
only Spanish would qualify under the court reporters'
standards required in the federal courts; and, lastly, the
federal bar in San Juan is largely an English speaking bar.
Telecommunications Privacy Act
   The proposed Telecommunications Privacy Act of 1977
would effectively replace Chapter 119 of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968. Under this
t:hapter the Administrative Office currently has the re­
sponsibility for the collection, compilation and statistical
analysis of federal and state court authorized interception
of wire or oral communications. Each year at the end of
April a report is required to be made to the Congress on
all such interceptions terminated during the previous
calendar year. The Conference noted that while the Ad­
mi llistrative Office has never regarded the reporting of
communications interceptions as a natural extension of its
functions in administering the federal court's, nonetheless,
it has complied completely with the requirements of the
statute. The new bill, however, would further enlarge
upon the activities of the Administrative Office, requiring
it to collect information regarding ex parte orders which
would have to remain confidential. The collection of these
orders is not required for the preparation of the analysis
and summary to be submitted annually to the Congress.
Secondly, the collection of the copies of court orders and
of the applications and transcripts of related proceedings
and reports concerning the disposition of all recommen­
dations go far beyond what the act requires for the report
to the Congress. Implementation would require consider­
able augmentation of Administrative Office personnel,
space and security. The Conference, therefore, recom­
mends that the proposed act be amended so that the Ad­
                             52 

 ministrative Office would be required to collect only in­
 formation which is required to report to the Congress.
Diversity Jurisdiction
    In considering the provisions of H.R. 5546, the Confer­
 ence adhered to the position taken at the March 1977 ses­
 seion (Conf. Rept., p. 8) favoring the complete abolition of
 general diversity jurisdiction, or failing that, the elimina­
 tion of the in-state plaintiff and the increase in the
 amount-in-controversy requirement to $25,000. Should
 the Congress consider enacting H.R. 5546, the Confer­
 ence approved certain suggestions for technical amend­
 ments which the Director for the Administrative Office
 was authorized to transmit to the Congress.
Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
    The Conference expressed its disapproval of a proposal
 to amend Section 1407 of Title 28, United States Code, to
enlarge the authority of the Panel on Multidistrict Litiga­
 tion as recommended by the Antitrust Section of the
American Bar Association.
Labor Court
    The Conference disapproved H.R. 3596, a bill which
would create a separate court of five judges to serve for
terms of twelve years and to have jurisdiction over certain
labor disputes in industries substantially affecting com­
merce. The Conference expressed its concern with the
 tendency toward the proliferation of separate courts and
 tribunals and agreed that the disputes which are the sub­
ject of the pending legislation can be adequately handled
 through the existing federal court structure.
Salaries
    In considering the provisions of H.R. 5876, which
would revise the manner in which the salary rates of cer­
tain executive, legislative and judicial positions are ad­
justed, the Conference agreed that such legislation in­
volves a policy determination by the Congress on which
 the Judicial Conference ought to reserve comment. It was
 pointed out, however, that there was nothing in the pro­
 posed legislation which uniquely affects the salaries and
salary setting procedures of the officials of the judicial
branch vis-a-vis executive and legislative officials.
                                53 

Federal Right to Support
   The Conference disapproved H.R. 6196, a bill to estab­
lish the federal right to every unemancipated child to be
supported by such child's parents or parent. The Confer­
ence noted the Committee's comment that such legislation
in establishing a federal right to support could have a sub­
stantial impact upon the workload of the federal judiciary
although it purports only to affect state court jurisdiction.
Minimum Level for Retirement Salaries
   The Conference voted its disapproval of H.R. 5781, as it
had similar legislation in the 93rd and 94th Congresses,
which would provide a minimum level for retirement
salaries of certain federal judges in territories and posses­
sions by amending Section 373 of Title 28, United States
Code. The Conference again expressed the view that such
legislation involved matters that are essentially private re­
lief bills and that the objective should not be achieved by
amending Title 28, United States Code.
Witness Fees
  The Conference approved the concept involved in H.R.
8220 which would amend Section 1821 of Title 28, United
States Code, to increase the fees of a witness in a federal
court proceeding from $20 to $30 per day and to provide
an allowance for expenses of travel and subsistence on the
same basis as is provided for travel and subsistence of
salaried members of the federal government.
Speedy Trial Act
  At the direction of the Conference at its March session,
the Committee, through an ad hoc committee, reviewed
the operation of the Speedy Trial Act and proposed to the
Conference certain amendments to the act, as follows:
       1. The ultimate time strictures of §3161 of 30 days
    arrest-to-indictment, ten days indictment-to arraignment,
    and sixty days arraignment-to-trial should be changed in­
    stead to sixty days from arrest to indictment, twenty days
    from indictment to arraignment, and not less than thirty nor
    more than one hundred days from arraignment to trial.
      ·2.The exclusions Of periods of delay enumerated in
    §3161(h) shoJlld also include the time' co'mputations con­
    cerned with amiignments, with retrial, and should specif­
                               54
    ically include the applicability of all exclusions during the
    interim period that will end July 1, 1978, as provided in
    §3161 (g).
       3. The word "examination," in §3161 (h) (1) should be
    changed to the word "motion."
       4. The minimum time period of thirty days for trial fol­
    lowing arraignment provided in §3161 (b) should be waiva­
    ble by the defendant.
       5. Section 3161 (c) should apply to complaints before
    magistrates so as to read: "The arraignment of a defendant
    charged in an information or indictment, or in a complaint
    before a magistrate, with the commission of an offense shall
    be held ... "
       6. The phrase in §3161 (c), "held to answer," should be
    eliminated.
  Upon review of these recommendations, the Confer­
ence expressed its approval of them and authorized the
Director of the Administrative Office to transmit to the
Congress the report of the ad hoc committee.

          BIENNIAL SURVEY OF JUDGESHIP NEEDS
   The Conference at its March 1977 session approved a
recommendation that the Subcommittee on Judicial Statis­
tics be authorized to make biennial surveys of the judge­
ship needs of the district courts and of the courts of ap­
peals, commencing in 1978. Inasmuch as the Congress has
not yet enacted an omnibus judgeship bill based on prior
surveys, the Conference agreed that the Subcommittee
should be granted discretion as to the time when the first
of the biennial surveys is started.

                   SUPPORTING PERSONNEL
Satellite Libraries
   The Committee, pursuant to a mandate of the Judicial
Conference at the March 1975 session (conf. Rept., p. 7),
received and examined reports prepared both by the Jud­
icial Council of the Third Circuit and by the Administra­
tive Office concerning the satellite library study under way
in that circuit. The Conference agreed that since the en­
tire subject matter of libraries for the federal courts is
being studied under the aegis of the Federal Judicial Cen­
                                55 

ter, no final decision on satellite libraries should be made
at this time and the Conference authorized that the pres­
ent pilot study in the Third Circuit be extended for an
additional two years in its present status.
Court Reporters
   The Conference agreed with the recommendation that
the current five percent increase authorized by the Con­
gress for court reporters be awarded solely on the basis of
longevity with no substitution therefore and that the other
five percent increase, if authorized by the Congress, be
granted strictly upon merit-specifically, the certificate of
merit. The Conference in approving this recommendation
approved changes in the current qualification standards so
that they will read as follows:
       L An applicant for appointment hereafter as an offi­
    cial court reporter in a United States District Court shall
    possess as a minimum requirement at least four years of
    prime court reporting experience in the free lance field
    of service or in other courts or a combination thereof
    and a certificate of proficiency from the National Short­
    hand Reporters Association.
      2. All official court reporters who have satisfactorily
    met the qualification requirements outlined in (1) above
    who, in addition, possess a certificate of merit from the
    National Shorthand Reporters Association shall receive
    as a salary a starting salary for court reporters set by the
    Judicial Conference, plus a 5 percent meritorious in­
    crease over that starting salary.
      3. All official court reporters who have satisfactorily
    completed ten years of full-time service as a court repor­
    ter for a United States District Court shall receive the
    starting salary established by the Judicial Conference of
    the United States, plus a five percent longevity increase
    over that starting salary.
      4. All official court reporters who satisfactorily meet
    the requirements in (1), (2) and (3) above, shall receive as
    a salary the starting salary for official court reporters as
    set by the Judicial Conference, plus a 10 percent
    meritorious and longevity combination increase over that
    starting salary.
      5. The recommendation of the employing court is pre­
    requisite for any increase or combination of increases
    above the current starting salary. All salary rates will be
                                56
    adjusted upwards whenever there is a statutory increase
    for judiciary employees generally.
      6. All initial appointments shall be on a probationary
    basis to be fixed by the employing court.
       7. This plan shall be administered by the Director of
    the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
    under the general direction and supervision of the Judi­
    cial Conference of the United States. The requirements
    of item(l) above may be subject to modification where
    special circumstances warrant.
Senior Staff Attorneys-Courts if Appeals
  The Conference approved the Committee's recommen­
dation that in order to avoid confusion with law clerks
who serve on the personal staff of the judges, the senior
staff law clerks and their assistants in the circuit courts
shall now be known as senior staff attorney and staff at­
torney and that these positions shall, if the Congress
agrees, no longer carry ungraded salaries but should be
graded at grades approximating the present salaries of the
incumbents for the various positions. The Conference was
in agreement that these positions are truly staff advisory
functions and that the incumbents of such positions in the
executive branch enjoy the benefits of a graded position.
The Conference also approved certain specific requests
recommended by the Committee which have been made
by some of the circuits as follows:
       Third Circuit: One grade JSP-13 Supervisory Staff At­
    torney Position.
      Fifth Circuit: One grade JSP-14 Supervisory Staff At­
    torney position and two JSP-13 Supervisory Staff Attor­
    ney positions.
      Sixth Circuit: One grade JSP-13 Supervisory Staff At­
    torney position.
      Eighth Circuit: One grade JSP-13 Supervisory Staff At­
    torney position.
      Ninth Circuit: Two grade JSP-14 Staff Attorney posi­
    tions and three grade J SP-13 Staff Attorney positions.
    The two grade JSP-14 positions are to serve as assistants
    to the Senior Staff Attorney in the criminal and civil
    areas respectively, two of the grade 13 positions to serve
    as subject-matter specialists in criminal and civil motions
    respectively, and the other grade 13 to serve as a general
    research subject-matter specialist.
                             57
      Tenth Circuit: One grade JSP-13 Supervisory Staff At­
    torney position.
   These recommendations were approved subject to the
availability of funds.
Lexis Operators
   In view of the fact that the experimental stage with
Lexis operations has been completed by the Federal Judi­
cial Center and the Center has recommended that the
Administrative Office install Lexis in 17 places of holding
court around the country, the Conference approved a
recommendation that an appropriate staff position be
created in those courts which will receive Lexis and which
do not as a result of the pilot project currently have a
trained Lexis operator on board. The Administrative Of­
fice was empowered to establish such a position, whether
on a temporary or on a permanent basis, subject to the
availability of funds.

           COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
 The report of the Committee on the Budget was sub­
mitted by the Chairman, Judge Carl A. Weinman.

         ApPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR      1978
   The Conference was advised that the budget estimates
submitted to the Congress for fiscal year 1978 (exclusive
of the Supreme Court) initially were in the amount of
$429,261,000. The Director of the Administrative Office,
on March 24, 1977, submitted budget amendments in the
amount of $14,540,000 to the Office of Management and
Budget to cover the salary increases authorized for judges,
magistrates, referees in bankruptcy, and other judicial of­
ficers. The appropriation for "Salaries and Expenses of
Magistrates" also was revised to include an additional
$580,000 for the new magistrates and implementation of
changes in arrangements approved by the Judicial Con­
ference in March 1977.
   The revised estimate (exclusive of the Supreme Court)
was $444,381,000. The Appropriation Act for fiscal year
1978 which was approved on August 2, 1977, Public Law
95-86, was in the amount of $435,127,000, $9,254,000 less
than the amount requested but an increase of $16,964,000
                            58 

over the adjusted approprIation for fiscal year 1977. If,
for comparative purposes, we 'exclude the sum of
$31,100,000 appropriated in 1977 for the Judicial Sur­
vivors' Annuities Program, the increase-1978 over
1977-would be $48,060,000, or 11.5 percent.
   The Conference authorized the Director of the Admin­
istrative Office to submit to the Congress requests for
supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 1978 for "pay
costs" and for implementation of new legislation, changes
in rules, actions of the Judicial Conference and for any
other reason he considers necessary and appropriate.

         BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR FISCAL YEAR 1979
   The Conference approved the budget estimates for fis­
cal year 1979 which, exclusive of the Supreme Court, Cus­
toms Court and the Federal Judicial Center, are in the
aggregate amount of $464,138,000. The proposed in­
crease in budget (obligational) authority over the appro­
priations for fiscal year 1978 adjusted to the extent of the
proposed supplemental for "pay costs" is $25,660,000 or
six percent. The estimates take into account the recom­
mendations of the respective committees of the Confer­
ence which will require additional funding. The Director
of the Ad,ministrative Office was authorized to amend the
budget to the extent he considers necessary and appro­
priate.
   The Conference approved the Committee recommen­
dation that the Administrative Office conduct a study for
the purpose of reevaluating and recommending to the
Judicial Conference any changes in the staffing ratios
which may be necessary with respect to clerks' offices in
the courts of appeals and the district courts, taking into
account any additional duties and responsibilities that
have been imposed as well as improvements in methods
and procedures accomplished during the past several
years.
   The Conference also authorized the Director of the
Administrative Office to negotiate with the Attorney Gen­
eral for a transfer of funds from the judiciary appropria­
tion for "space and facilities" to the Department of Justice
for the purpose of increasing the level of court security
                              59 

being provided by the United States Marshals Service with
a corresponding reduction in protective services being
provided by the General Services Administration on a
reimbursable basis.

           CIVIL ARBITRATION-PILOT PROGRAM
 The Conference authorized the expenditure of appro­
priated funds for the conduct of a pilot civil arbitration
program· consistent with guidelines and procedures to be
established by the Committee on Court Administration in
consultation with representatives of the Department of
Justice. This action was taken as a result of the recom­
mendation of the Attorney General whose office is prepar­
ing proposed legislation on the subject of civil arbitration
so that a pilot program might be undertaken to assist both
the Department and the Congress in evaluating the pro­
posals for civil arbitration legislation. It is understood that
there will be from three to five pilot districts who will par­
ticipate in the program for a period from six months to
one year. It is believed that such an experimental program
can be implemented through the adoption of appropriate
local rules by the designated courts and that the current
appropriations for the operation and maintenance of the
courts can be used for this purpose, subject to the ap­
proval of the Appropriations Committees of the Congress.

                  REVIEW COMMITTEE
  The report of the Review Committee was presented by
the Chairman, Judge Edward A. Tamm.
  Pursuant to Committee recommendation, the Confer­
ence agreed to establish, through an appropriate commit­
tee, standards governing the nature and type of outside
activities and affiliations which will be approved for em­
ployees of the clerks' offices.
  The Conference also agreed that if the present report­
ing program is continued, public defenders in Grade 15
or above be required to file semiannual reports of non­
governmental income.
  After giving the Conference a summary of the Commit­
tee's review of the reports filed with it pursuant to Con­
ference resolution at the March 1976 session (Conf. Repr.,
                                                     60 

p. 24), as subsequently amended, Judge Tamm advised
that the following have not filed reports of extrajudicial
income for the period January 1 through June 30, 1977,
as follows:
  Listing, by Circuit, of Judicial Officers Who Have Not, as of Sep­
tember 16, 1977, Filed Reports of Extra-Judicial Income for the
Reporting Period Ending June 30, 1977.
Second Circuit                                            Ninth Circuit (Continued)
** Edmund L. Palmieri                                     ** Warren J. Ferguson
   U.S. District Judge (Senior)                              V.S. District Judge
** Sylvester J. Ryan                                      ** Peirson M. Hall
   U.S. District Judge (Senior) 
                            V.S. District Judge (Senior)
** Edward Weinfeld                                        ** Harry Pregerson

   V.S. District Judge                                       V.S. District Judge
** Inzer B. Wyatt                                         ** Manuel L. Real
   V.S. District Judge (Senior)                              V.S. District Judge 

                                                          ** Stanley A. Weigel 

Sixth Circuit                                                V.S. District Judge
** Frank J. Battisti
   V.S. DIstrict Judge                                    Tenth Circuit
                                                          ** Stephen S. Chandler, Jr.
Ninth Circuit                                                V.S. District Judge (Senior)
   Walter Early Craig                                     ** Willis W. Ritter
   V.S. District Judge                                       V.S. District Judge



       JOINT COMMITTEE ON THE CODE OF 

                  JUDICIAL CONDUCT 

  The report of the Joint Committee on the Code of
Judicial Conduct, of which Judge William B. Jones and
Judge Edward A. Tamm are Chairmen, was presented
to the Conference by Judge Tamm.
  The Conference approved the recommendation that
Canon 5C(2) be amended to permit a judge to participate
in the activities of a family corporation that does nothing
more than a judge would be permitted to do by himself in
nonincorporated form. The family corporation must be
wholly owned by members of the judge'S family who are
related to the judge or his spouse within the third degree
of relationship calculated according to the civil law system .

• * Judges declining to file as a matter of conscience.
                            61 

  The Conference further approved the recommendation
that Canon 5D be amended to redefine the term
"member of his family" to mean "any relative of a judge
by blood, adoption, or marriage within the third degree of
relationship calculated according to the civil law system or
any other person treated by a judge as a member of his
family who resides, or has resided, in his household." The
Conference agreed that this recommendation shall be­
come effective immediately except that it requested the
Committee to consider and report to the March session on
the question of a grandfather clause as to judges in a
fourth degree of familial relationship whose status has
previously been approved by his judicial council. As to
such judges, the recommendation shall not go into effect
until the Conference has an opportunity to consider the
Committee report to be made to the March 1978 session.
  The Conference further approved the proposal that
Canon 5G be amended to permit a judge to accept ap­
pointment to a governmental commission or committee if
required by Act of Congress.




             ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON 

               JUDICIAL ACTIVITIES 

  Judge William B. Jones, Chairman of the Advisory
Committee on Judicial Activities, submitted the Commit­
tee's report to the Conference.
   The report showed that in the past six months since the
last session of the Conference sixteen new inquiries were
received and two published opinions have been issued, as
follows:
      Advisory Opinion No. 48-Application of Judicial Con­
    ference conflict-of-interest rules for part-time magis­
    trates, including permissible office arrangements.
      Advisory Opinion No. 49-Code of Judicial Conduct
    does not require a judge to disqualify himself in a case
    where a trade association appears as a party because he
    owns a small percentage of outstanding, publicly-traded
    shares of one or more members of the trade association.
                              62 

COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 

     FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM
  The report of the Committee on the Administration of
the Federal Magistrates System was presented by Judge
Charles M. Metzner, Chairman.

         AMENDMENTS TO THE MAGISTRATES ACT

   Judge Metzner advised that the Administration has
sponsored legislation to improve access to the federal
courts by enlarging the civil and criminal jurisdiction of
United States magistrates. This bill, S. 1613, was intro­
duced by Senators DeConcini and Byrd and passed the
Senate on July 22, 1977. Among other things the bill spe­
cifically authorizes magistrates to try any civil case, jury or
non-jury, upon the voluntary consent of the parties. It
would expand criminal trial jurisdiction to include all mis­
demeanors and would permit a jury trial of a mis­
demeanor to be conducted before a magistrate and would
provide greater safeguards to insure that only qualified
individuals would be selected as magistrates. It would re­
quire that the Judicial Conference adopt qualification
standards and selection procedures by April 30, 1978, that
all magistrates must be admitted to the bar for a period of
at least five years. It would permit a circuit council to dis­
approve a prospective appointee to a full-term magistrate
position and would provide that the new trial jurisdiction
in civil cases could be exercised by magistrates serving the
courts as full-time officers.
   While approving most of the provisions of S. 1613, it
was the consensus of the Conference that the provisions in
S. 1613 for jury trials before magistrates and for direct
appeals to the courts of appeals are new concepts involving a
substantial alteration of the structure of the courts and pre­
senting questions of possible constitutional significance.
   It further appears that the members of this Conference
have had insufficient opportunity as yet to study these
proposals and are unprepared to express a considered
opinion upon them. Therefore, the Judicial Conference
resolved that the House of Representatives be respectfully
requested to delay further action on these proposals at
                            63 

least until after the March 1978 meeting of this Confer­
ence when the proposals will be considered with the bene­
fit of study and inquiry.

                BANKRUPTCY LEGISTRATION
   The Conference was advised and agreed with the rec­
ommendation that the Committee continue to study the
matter of looking toward the eventual adoption of legisla­
tion to permit magistrates and referees in bankruptcy in­
terchangeably to perform each other's duties as the needs
of the courts and fluctuating caseloads dictate and thus
provide the greatest flexibility in assigning the business of
the federal trial courts to subordinate judicial officers.
The Conference agreed that the interchange of duties
would rest on the decision of each district court.

 QUALIFICATION STANDARDS AND SELECTION PROCEDURES
  The Committee submitted for Conference consideration
draft qualification standards and selection procedures
with a view to permitting the members of the Conference
and the judges whom they represent to study these pro­
posals with a view to requesting Conference action at the
March 1978 session.

                SALARIES OF MAGISTRATES
   Pursuant to the action of the Judicial Conference at its
March 1977 session, three levels of salaries were provided
for magistrates, as follows: $39,600, $42,500 and up to
$46,500 per annum. The Conference was advised that as a
result of these three levels and the qualifications required
for each, several inequities have resulted and as a result
the Conference agreed with the recommendation of the
Committee that Level 1 at $39,600 be eliminated. The
Conference further agreed that the certification required
as to magistrates receiving the top salary would read that
the incumbent has been "authorized by order or rule of
court to perform" a full range of additional duties under
28 U.S.C. 636 (b) as revised in 1976 and is actually or will
soon be performing these duties in substantial volume.
                                64
         CHANGE IN ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS

  The Conference approved an amendment to Secton 2.7
of the regulations of the Director to provide that the rates
and conditions for transcripts prepared by electronic rec­
ording of proceedings before magistrates be the same
rates and conditions established by the Conference for
transcripts prepared by an official court reporter.

               INVESTIGATIONS OF MISCONDUCT
   On motion of a member of the Conference it was
agreed to request the Committee to study what investiga­
tive services might be available to a district court when
charges of misconduct are levelled at a magistrate.

             CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS
  At the request of the Committee, the Conference
ratified the actions of its Excutive Committee as follows:

                         SIXTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of Michigan
     Extended the time for the discontinuance of the pan-time
     magistrate position at Flint from the date of the appointment
     of a full-time referee in bankruptcy-magistrate at Bay City
     until the expiration of the current term of the incumbent.


                       EIGHTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of Arkansas
    Approved the principle of increasing the salaries of visiting
    pan-time magistrates by an amount equal to the salary of a
     full-time magistrate for those days on which they perform
     full-time duties to assist the district court at Little Rock.
District of South Dakota
     Converted the part-time magistrate position at Sioux Falls to a
     combination part-time referee-magistrate position and reduced
     the salary of the position from $7,650 per annum to $4,250 per
     annum for the performance of magistrate duties.
  The Conference was advised that sufficient funds have
been appropriated for fiscal year 1978 to provide for 164
full-time magistrate positions, 305 part-time magistrate
                                  65 

pOSitIOns and 18 combination referee-magistrate or
clerk-magistrate positions.
  The Conference further approved changes based on the
recommendations of the Administrative Office, the district
courts, the judicial councils of the circuits and of the
Committee, to be effective unless otherwise indicated
when appropriated funds are available.


                          THIRD CIRCUIT
District of Delaware
     (1) Authorized the part-time referee in bankruptcy at Wil­
         mington to perform the duties of a part-time magistrate for
         an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
         salary of $12,240 per annum for the performance of magis­
         trate duties.
District of New]eney
     (1) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Asbury Park
         for an additional four-year term at the currently .authorized
         salary of $14,450 per annum.


                        FOURTH CIRCUIT
District of Maryland
     (1) Authorized the part-time magistrate at Hagerstown to
         exercise jurisdiction over the entire area of Fort Ritchie, in­
         cluding that portion lying within the Middle District of
          Pennsylvania.
Eastern District of North Carolina
     (1) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
         New Bern from $7,650 to $14,450 per annum.
     (2) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Elizabeth
         City for an additional four-year term.
     (3) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
         Elizabeth City from $2,550 to $4,250 per annum.
Western District of North Carolina
    (1) Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Statesville
        at the expiration of the current term of the incumbent.
Eastern District of Virginia
     (1) Authorized a second full-time magistrate position at Nor­
         folk at a salary of $46,500 per annum.
                                66
Western District of Virginia
    (1) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Charlottes­
        ville for an additional four-year term at the currently au­
        thorized salary of $2,550 per annum.




                         FIFTH CIRCUIT
Northern District of Florida
    (1) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Gainesville
        for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
        salary of $2,550 per annum.
Southern District of Florida
    (1) Continued the part-time magistrate pOSltlon at Key West
        for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
        salary of $2,550 per annum.
Middle District of Georgia
    (1) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Macdn for
        an additional four-year term.
    (2) Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Macon from $9,350 to $5,950 per annum, effective at the
        start of the new term.
Northern District of Texas
    (1) Increased the compensation paid to the referee in bank­
        ruptcy at Lubbock for the performance of duties of a part­
        time magistrate from $19,182 per annum to $24,200 per
        annum.
Southern District of Texas
    (1) Continued the part-time magistrate posItIon at McAIIen­
        Edinburg for an additional four-year term.
    (2) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        McAllen-Edinburg from $21,600 to $24,200 per annum.
Western District of Texas
    (1) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate   position at
        Austin from $14,450 to $24,200 per annum.
    (2) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate   position at
        El Paso from $19,000 to $21,600 per annum.
    (3) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate   position at
        Waco from $19,000 to $21,600 per annum.
    (4) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate   position at
        Marfa from $3,400 to $5,950 per annum.
                                 67 

                         SIXTH CIRCUIT 

Eastern District of Kentucky
     (I) 	I ncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
         London from $2,550 to $9,350 per annum.
    (2) Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Pineville.
    (3) Authorized the part-time magistrate at London to exercise
         jurisdiction over the entire area of the Cumberland Gap
         National Park, including those portions lying within the
         Western District of Virginia and the Eastern District of
         Tennessee.
Western District of Michigan
    (1) Continued the part-time magistrate posItIon at Traverse
        City for an additional four-year term at the currently au­
        thorized salary of $850 per annum.
Northern District of Ohio
    (1) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Lima for an
         additional four-year term.
    (2) 	Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
         Lima from $850 to $1,700 per annum.


                        EIGHTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of Arkansas
     (1) Authorized a second full-time magistrate position at Little
         Rock at a salary of $46,500 per annum.
     (2) Discontinued the authority of the clerk of court at Little
         Rock to perform magistrate duties, effective upon the ap­
         pointment of the second full-time magistrate at Little Rock.
    (3) Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Pine
         Bluff, effective upon the appointment of the second full­
         time magistrate at Little Rock.
Western District of Arkansas
    (1) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Fort Smith
        for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
        salary of $4,250 per annum.
    (2) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
        Harrison from $850 to $2,550 per annum.
Northern District of Iowa
    (1) Continued the authorization for the deputy clerk at Cedar
        Rapids to perform magistrate duties for an additional
        four-year period.
    (2) Incresed the compensation paid to the deputy clerk at
                                 68
         Cedar Rapids for the performance of magistrate duties
         from $6,117 to $8,000 per annum.
District of Minnesota
     (1) Increased the compensation paid to the referee in bank­
         ruptcy at Duluth for the performance of magistrate duties
         from $4,250 to $24,200 per annum.
Eastern District of Missouri
     (1) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Ozark Na­
         tional Scenic Riverways for an additional four-year term.
     (2) Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
         Ozark National Scenic Riverways from $7,650 to $5,950 per
         annum, effective at the start of the new term.
     (3) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Hannibal
         for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
         salary of $850 per annum.


                         NINTH CIRCUIT
District of Alaska
     (1) Continued the part-time magistrate pOSItion at Fairbanks
         for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
         salary of $19,000 per annum.
Southern District of California
    (1) Continued the part-time magistrate position at San Diego
        for an additional four-year term.
    (2) Increased the salaries of the part-time magistrate positions
        at San Diego and EI Centro, each from $21,600 to $24,200
        per annum.
District of Montana
     (1) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Wolf Point
         for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
         salary of $2,550 per annum.


                        TENTH CIRCUIT
District of Colorado
     (1) Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Fort Collins
         and Monte Vista for additional four-year terms, each at the
         currently authorized salary of $850.
     (2) Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Sterling,
         effective upon the expiration of the current term of the in­
         cumbent.
                                  69
      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION 

         OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM 

  The report of the Committee on the Administration of
the Bankruptcy System was presented by the Chairman,
Judge Edward Weinfeld.

         SALARIES AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR REFEREES
   The Conference considered the Committee's report and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administra­
tive Office, the judicial councils and the district judges and
took the following actions relating to referee in bank­
ruptcy positions and changes in salaries and arrangements
in the several districts concerned. These actions are to be
effective on October 1, 1977, unless otherwise indicated,
subject to the availability of funds.
                          FIRST CIRCUIT
District of Puerto Rico
     (1) Established a 	second full-time referee position for the dis­
         trict with headquarters at San Juan at the authorized salary
         of $48,500 per annum;
     (2) Authorized concurrent district-wide jurisdiction for the
         second full-time referee position with the established ref­
         eree position for the district.

                         SECOND CIRCUIT
Eastern District of New York
     (1) Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee posi­
         tion at Westbury to become vacant by expiration of term on
         January 31, 1978, for a term of six years, effective February
          1, 1978 at the authorized salary, the regular place of office,
         territory and places of holding court to remain as at pres­
         ent.

                          THIRD CIRCUIT
District of New Jersey
     (1) Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee posi­
         tion at Newark to become vacant by expiration of term on
         March 5, 1978, for a term of six years, effective March 6,
         1978, at the authorized salary, the regular place of office,
         territory and places of holding court to remain as at pres­
         ent.
                                 70 

                          FIFTH CIRCUIT 

Northern District of Florida
    (1) Changed the part-time referee position at Tallahassee to
        full-time status as soon as appropriated funds become
        available, at the authorized salary of $48,500;
    (2) Designated Tallahassee, Gainesville, Pensacola and Panama
        City as places of holding court for the full-time referee of
        the district;
    (3) Established district-wide jurisdiction for the full-time ref­
        eree position.
Northern District of Georgia
    (1) Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee poslUon
        at Atlanta to become vacant by expiration of term on De­
        cember 7, 1977, for a term of six years, effective December
        8, 1977, at the authorized salary, the regular place of office,
        territory and places of holding court to remain as at pres­
        ent.
Southern District of Texas
    (1) Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee posi­
        tion at Houston to become vacant by expiration of term on
        November 14, 1977, for a term of six years, effective
        November 15, 1977, at the authorized salary, with the reg­
        ular place of office and territory to remain as at present.
    (2) Designated Brownsville, Laredo and Victoria as places of
        holding court for the referees of the district in addition to
        Houston, Galveston and Corpus Christi.

                         SIXTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of Michigan
    (1) Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee posi­
        tion at Detroit to become vacant by expiration of term on
        April 13, 1978, for a term of six years, effective April 14,
        1978, at the authorized salary, the regular place of office,
        territory and places of holding court to remain as at pres­
        ent.

                        EIGHTH CIRCUIT
District of North Dakota
     (1) Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee posi­
         tion at Fargo to become vacant by expiration of term on
         November 8, 1977, for a term of six years, effective
         November 9, 1977, at the authorized salary, the regular
                                 71
        place of office, territory and places of holding court to re­
        main as at present.

                         NINTH CIRCUIT
District of Alaska
     (1) Changed the part-time referee position at Anchorage to a
         full-time position as soon as appropriated funds become
         available, at the authorized salary of $48,500;
     (2) Continued the regular place of office and territory as at
         present;
     (3) Designated Ketchikan as a place of holding court in addi­
         tion to Anchorage, Fairbanks, Juneau and Nome.
Eastern District of California
     (1) Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee posi­
         tion at Fresno to become vacant by expiration of term on
         February 15, 1978, for a term of six years, effective Feb­
         ruary 16, 1978, at the authorized salary, the regular place of
         office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
         present.
Western District of Washington
    (1) Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee posi­
        tion at Seattle to become vacant by expiration of term on
        March 13, 1978, for a term of six years, effective March 14,
        1978, at the authorized salary, with the regular place of of­
        fice and territory to remain as at present:
    (2) Established concurrent district-wide jurisdiction over all
        cases for all referees of the district;
    (3) Designated Seattle, Everett, Bellingham, Tacoma and Van­
        couver as places of holding court for all referees of the dis­
        trict.

           REFEREES' SALARY AND EXPENSE FUND
   In fiscal year 1976 receipts to the Referees' Salary and
Expense fund totalled $22,097,000 and costs were
$26,671,000, making the system 86 percent self­
supporting. Increased salary costs are expected to reduce
this percentage in fiscal year 1977, even though greater
receipts to the Fund are realized.

                           LEGISLATION
  The Conference in approving the recommendation of
the Committee reiterated its opposition to an Article I or
                               72 

an Article III court, as envisioned in H.R. 8200, and en­
dorsed the proposal of the ad hoc Committee on Bank­
ruptcy Legislation for further study of the interchange­
able use of referees and magistrates.
   The Conference reiterated its opposition to S. 1448 and
S. 795 on the same basis as its opposition to S. 2387, 94th
Congress, which would create a new court of district and
circuit judges known as the Temporary Petroleum Indus­
try Divestiture Court and which would permit reference
of subject matter jurisdiction to referees in bankruptcy.
The Conference had previously opposed such legislation
on the basis that it would be preferable to provide
adequate resources to the United States district courts and
courts of appeals so that litigation arising under such legis­
lation might be processed in the usual way.

              AD HOC COMMITTEE ON 

             BANKRUPTCY LEGISLATION 

   The third preliminary report of the ad hoc Committee
on Bankruptcy Legislation was presented by the Chair­
man, Judge Wesley E. Brown.
   In accordance with the recommendations of the Com­
mittee, the Conference endorsed the concept of increasing
the jurisdiction of bankruptcy courts in suits "arising
under or related to" bankruptcy cases with these lim­
itations:
   (1) A showing of detriment to the estate must be made to in­
       voke the increased jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court;
   (2) Removal of a suit from a state court be discretionary with
       the bankruptcy court on petition timely made and showing
       detriment;
   (3) The filing of an original action in the bankruptcy court be
       permitted only with the consent of the court upon a show­
       ing of detriment.
  The Conference agreed. that the existing district courts
should assume this new jurisdiction and that cases arising
thereunder should be handled by either the judge or the
referee in bankruptcy.
  The Conference disapproved the establishement of a
separate office of United States Trustee under the Attor­
ney General and concurred in the views of the Depart­
                             73 

ment of Justice that such an arrangement would create
conflicts-of-interest.
   The Conference further disapproved enlarging the Jud­
icial Conference of the United States from 25 to 36 mem­
bers as proposed in H.R. 8200 and to increase the size of
the Board of the Federal Judicial Center by including ref­
erees in bankruptcy in its membership.
   The Conference was in agreement that referees in
bankruptcy should be appointed by the circuit councils
upon the recommendations of the district courts and fur­
ther that the term of office of the referee should be in­
creased from six to 12 years, a recommendation approved
by the Judicial Conference as early as 1960.
   The Conference also agreed with the Committee that
more study should be given to the solution of the serious
problem of separating administrative and judicial func­
tions in the processing of bankruptcy cases.

     COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION 

        OF THE PROBATION SYSTEM 

  The report of the Committee on the Administration of
the Probation System was presented by the Chairman,
Judge Albert C. Wollenberg.

                 MANDATORY RETIREMENT

   Public Law 93-350, enacted July 12, 1974, made a
number of significant changes to the special provisions for
the retirement of law enforcement personnel which in­
clude probation officers. One of these changes which be­
comes effective January 1, 1978 requires mandatory sep­
aration of an employee eligible for immediate retirement
on the last day of the month in which he becomes 55 years
of age or completes 20 years of service if then over that
age. The head of the agency, however, when in his judg­
ment the public interest so requires, may exempt such an
employee from automatic separation until that employee
becomes 60 years of age. The Judicial Conference at its
March 1975 meeting (Conf. Rept., pp. 21, 22) on recom­
mendation of the Committee adopted a resolution which,
in effect, designates the Director of the Administrative Of­
fice as the head of the agency for the purpose of this legis­
                                74 

lation. To assist the Director in exercising his authority to
exempt a probation officer from mandatory separation,
the Committee recommended and the Conference ap­
proved three guidelines:
    (1) 	It is the policy of the Judicial Conference that probation
        officers shall be exempted from mandatory separation
        when in the judgment of the Director of the Administrative
        Office of the United States Courts and the chief judge of
        the district the public interest requires such exemption.
    (2) In determining when the public interest requires an exemp­
        tion the following factors are to be considered:
             The benefits which will inure to the government upon
             exemption;
             The degree of difficulty in replacing the employee; and
             The need for the employee to perform essential service in
             the time of emergency.
    (3) Any exemption shall be limited to one year at a time.

                    STATISTICAL PROGRAM
  Judge Wollenberg advised the Conference that the
Committee has always been interested in improving
statistics for the probation system. These statistics, in the
view of the Committee, serve as limited support at the
national level for budget, planning and management
control purposes. They are also useful for management
at the local level but have proved to be of limited value
both for this purpose and for guidance to judges fram­
ing sentences. Because of problems of coding and con­
trolling complex data, the committee has found in­
stances where the statistics were not only inadequate but
misleading. The Committee has concluded, therefore,
that a revised or reformed system would not meet the
present or future needs of the courts or the probation
system, and, accordingly, has endorsed the concept of a
totally new system that would meet the needs of the
users in the field, the judge with his day-to-day sentenc­
ing problems, the needs of a national system for budget,
planning, and management control purposes and the
need of researchers seeking to improve understanding
of the treatment of offenders and offenses. The Con­
ference endorsed the concept of a new probation infor­
mation system and adopted four goals:
                               75 

   (1) 	Establish a modern information system for field
        managers-chiefs, deputy chiefs, supervisors, and proba­
        tion officers. The system is to provide a current data base
        with immediate feedback to users.
   (2) Provide up-to-date information to guide sentencing courts
       in selecting sentences for convicted defendants.
   (3) Generate national statistics for budget, planning, and man­
       agement control purposes.
   (4) Create a data base for research.

                         LEGISLATlON
H.R. 5792
   This bill which has been referred for Judicial Confer­
ence comment was endorsed by the Conference with two
reservations.
   This bill would amend title 18 to provide that upon the
recommendation of the attorney for the government the
court may place any individual charged with a criminal
offense under a program of community supervision for a
maximum period of 12 months. This placement may be
made "at the earliest practicable time." Section 3171 (c)
provides that an individual, after consultation with coun­
sel, must voluntarily agree to placement in the program
and waive the statute of limitations and right to a speedy
trial. At the successful conclusion of the program the
charges shal1 be dismissed. United States probation offi­
cers are authorized to perform the investigative and
supervisory functions required for the program.
   Section 3174 creates an advisory committee appointed
by the chief judge to plan the implementation of the pro­
gram of community supervision and services. Membership
shall include the chief judge as chairman, the United
States attorney, a Federal public defender or any attorney
active in defense work, and other individuals including
those representing social service of other agencies to
which persons released to community supervision may be
referred. Subsection (c) reads:
    With the approval of the Director of the Administrative
    Office of the United States Court, the committee is au­
    thorized to operate, or contract for the operation of, ap­
    propriate community services and appropriate commu­
    nity or governmental facilities. Such services may be in
                               76
     addition to or instead of the services of United States
     probation officers.
  The Committee noted that past Conference policy has
been that operation of facilities is an executive branch
function. However, the Committee has endorsed in prin­
ciple the concept of providing supportive services to per­
sons on probation or parole through contract arrange­
ments (Conf. Rept. September 1975, p. 65). The Congress
has expressed policy in this area through Title II of the
Speedy Trial Act which provides contract authority to the
probation service for facilities or services for persons on
pretrial release.
  The Committee is of the view and the Conference con­
curs that if Congress should place contract authority for
facilities and supportive services within the judiciary it
should be placed with the probation service rather than an
advisory committee. Further, it is the view of the Commit­
tee with which the Conference agreed that the bill should
clarify the role of the magistrate in the process and rec­
ommends that he be given full authority.
Pretrial Services Agencies
  The Committee recommended and the Conference ap­
proved a legislative proposal which would make the fol­
lowing amendments to 18 U.S.C. 3153 and 3154:
  1. Amend 18 U.S.C. 3153 to provide that a U.S. magistrate be a
member of the Board of Trustees.
      Experience has shown that in most judicial districts
      magistrates have been delegated the responsibility for
      holding bail hearings. As a result magistrates are the jud­
     icial officers most closely associated with pretrial services
     agencies and their cooperation is critical to the success of
      the pretrial services program. The presence of the pre­
      trial services agencies and their involvement with the ac­
     cused during the bail process impacts significantly on the
      procedures of judicial officers relating to bail matters.
  2. Amend 18 U.S.C. 3153 to provide that pretrial service officers
shall be considered law enforcement officers under the Federal
Tort Claims Act.
     Pretrial service officers deal with the same Federal of­
      fender as arresting agents, probation officers, and U.S.
      marshals. Due to the nature of their work they are ex­
      posed to the same hazards as other federal law enforce­
                                 77 

     ment officers and for that reason should be considered
     law enforcement officers within the meaning of section
     2680 (h) of title 28 of the United States Code. The
     amendment will provide an administrative route for res­
     olution of claims against pretrial service officers in the
     area of assault, false imprisonment, etc. The Conference
     approved this proposal as an amendment to the Federal
     Tort Claims Act at its September 1976 meeting (Conf.
     Rept., p. 52), however, it was never introduced in the
     Congress.
 3. Amend 18 U.S.C. 3154 to provide that pretrial services agencies
may carry out programs of pretrial diversion.
     It has become apparent in the two years that pretrial
     services agencies have been operational that pretrial di­
     version practices can be readily integrated with pretrial
     release procedures. Experience has shown that the col­
     lection, verification, and reporting of information on an
     accused who is being considered for pretrial diversion is
     essentially the same as that information usually provided
     for the processing of a bail matter and release plan.
     In addition, the timing of the collection, verification, and
     reporting of the information in a bail matter falls at the
     same time as in a diversion case. The only significant dif­
     ference under current practices is that information
     gathered to support a diversion decision is reported to
     the U.S. attorney and information gathered to support a
     bail decision and release plan is reported to a judicial of­
     ficer.
    Supervision of persons released under a diversion
    agreement is essentially the same as supervision of per­
    sons released on bail. In both instances the supervising
    officer provides assistance and reports violations. The
    significant difference is in the length of time a person is
    supervised. Supervision in bail cases usually would not
    exceed 100 days in view of the Speedy Trial Act. The
    usual length of supervision in a diversion case is 12
    months.
  4. Amend 18 U.S.C. 3154 by removing the Attorney General as
approving authority for contractual arrangements by pretrial serv­
ices agencies.
    It is the view of the Committee, with which the Confer­
    ence agrees, that no good purpose is served by requiring
    the Attorney General to approve contracts for pretrial
                               78 

    services between the Administrative Office of the U.S.
    Courts and Vendors. The Attorney General has dele­
    gated this responsibility to the Director of the Bureau of
    Prisons who in turn has delegated it to community pro­
    grams officers of the Bureau of Prisons. Traditionally,
    U.S. probation officers and more recently pretrial service
    officers have been responsible for the monitoring of
    services received by persons under supervision (proba­
    tioners, parolees, and pretrial releasees); for that reason
    probation officers and pretrial service officers are the
    most knowledgeable about the type of service and the
    quantity and quality of services provided. Experience in­
    dicates that the Administrative Office through pretrial
    services personnel can effectively arrange for suitable
    contracts and monitor their performance.
    Finally, it is the view of the Committee, with which the
    Conference agrees, that it is inappropriate for the Attor­
    ney General to have control over a pretrial services
    agency function operated within the judiciary.

                   SENTENCING INSTITUTES
  The Conference was advised that funds are available for
two institutes during fiscal year 1978 and that commit­
ments have been made for the joint session of the Second
and Seventh Circuits for October 1977. The Committee is
canvassing other circuits who are considered to be over­
due for institutes and if none is ready during fiscal year
1978, the Committee will recommend that the request of
the Ninth Circuit for such an institute be approved later in
the fiscal year.

            PRESENTENCE REPORT MONOGRAPH
   The Committee reported that it has approved for dis­
tribution to judges and probation officers a revised
monogTaph on presentence investigation reports. The re­
vision will be known as Administrative Office Publication
No. 105, The Presentence Investigation Report. The monog­
raph will provide a more flexible format and calls for a
shorter personal and family history section except in un­
usual circumstances. It sets forth specific guidance on the
current legal practices with respect to presentence investi­
gation reports.
                             79 

                  PROBATION PERSONNEL
   The Committee reported that it has determined the
need exists for additional officers in some districts, how­
ever, there is no demonstrated need for additional posi­
tions for the entire system. The Committee has recom­
mended that no additional positions be requested for fis­
cal year 1979 but noted that it will be necessary to transfer
some positions between districts to keep workloads in bal­
ance.

   COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF 

                  THE CRIMINAL LAW 

  The report of the Committee on the Administration of
the Crimmal Law was presented by the Chairman, Judge
Alfonso J. Zirpoli.

                   GRAND JURY REFORM
   On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
voted its disapproval of H.R. 94, a bill which would, in the
opinion of the Conference, turn a grand jury proceeding
into an adversary one and harm the orderly administra­
tion of justice by needlessly increasing the opportunity for
obstructing, delaying, disturbing and prolonging the in­
vestigatory and accusatory process, with no showing of
offsetting gain to the public or to individual rights. It
would further impose an enormous additional burden on
an already overloaded judiciary. It was noted that the
Conference had taken similar action with regard to two
predecessor bills in the 94th Congres~, H.R. 1277 and
H.R. 2986 (Conf. Rept., 1975, p. 56).

       RELEASE OF PERSONS PENDING ApPEARANCE 

                IN ANOTHER DISTRICT 

   The Conference approved for transmission to the Con­
gress, with a recommendation for favorable action, a draft
bill which would amend Chapter 315 of Title 18, United
States Code, to authorize payment of transportation ex­
penses by United States marshals for persons released
pending appearance in another district. This bill would
save much of the expense and avoid much of the delay
encountered in Criminal Rule 40 removal proceedings,
                                80 

which directly affect compliance with the requirements of
the Speedy Trial Act of 1974.

                  FEDERAL CRIMINAL CODE
   S. 1437, 95th Congress, the successor bill to S. 1 of the
93rd and 94th Congresses, provides for recodification of
the Federal Criminal Code. The Conference has at pre­
vious sessions commented on portions of the present pro­
posed bill. Judge Zirpoli pointed out that each redraft of
the bill inevitably introduces additional issues and that a
reprint which has appeared since the Committee met con­
tains further changes which the Committee had not had
an opportunity to examine.
   One of the principal objections of the Judicial Confer­
ence to a portion of S. 1437 has to do with the effective
date of any new criminal code. Because of the sweeping
changes comtemplated and the resulting impact on the
federal judiciary thereof, the Conference voted to request
Congress to extend the effective date from two years to
three years following the date of enactment. Judge Zirpoli
pointed out that many other objections to the code pre­
viously urged by the Conference had been met in the
redraft of S. 1437.
   The Conference reaffirmed its views on certain provi­
sions contained in S. 1437, as follows:
   (1) The Conference agreed to the position of the Com­
mittee that abrogation of the rule of strict construction
would introduce a litigable issue at the trial and appellate
levels without 'corresponding benefits to the litigants;
   (2) The Conference agreed that in lieu of the present
provisions, the following should be supplied as definitions
of culpable states of mind:
 A person engages in conduct:
   (I) "knowingly" if, when he engages in the conduct, he does so
       voluntarily and not by mistake, accident or other innocent
       reason, and with knowledge of existing circumstances to the
       extent that such knowledge is an element of the offense;
   (2) "intentionally" if, when he engages in the conduct, he does
       so knowingly and with the purpose of doing that which the
       law prohibits or failing to do that which the law requires;
   (3) "recklessly" if, when he engages in conduct with respect to a
                               81
      material element of an offense, he disregards a risk of
      which he is aware that the material element exists or will
      result from his conduct. His disregard of that risk must in­
      volve a gross deviation from the standard of care that a rea­
      sonable person would observe in the situation; except that
      awareness of the risk is not required where its absence is
      due to voluntary intoxication;
   (4) "negligently" if, when he engages in conduct with respect to
       a material element of an offense, he fails to be aware of a
       risk that the material element exists or will result from his
       conduct. His failure to perceive that risk must involve a
       gross deviation from the standard of care that a reasonable
       person would observe in the situation.
  (3) The Conference agreed with the Committee's objec­
tion to that part of Section 511, as it would be enacted by
S. 1437, which provided that a prosecution for an offense
necessarily included in the offense charged would not be
barred by time even though the period of limitation of the
included offense has expired if there is, after the close of
evidence at the trial, sufficient evidence to sustain a con­
viction for the offense charged.
   The Conference further agreed that Section 512 does
not give specific authority to United States magistrates to
deal with offenses by persons under sixteen years of age
who commit minor offenses in areas under the exclusive
control of the United States.
   (4) The Conference reaffirmed its support of legislation
previously submitted to the Congress to revise Chapter
313 of Title 18, United States Code. It was noted that
H.R. 7239, introduced by Mr. Rodino on May 17, 1977,
carries out the recommendation of the Conference.
   (5) As to offenses of general applicability, the Confer­
ence reaffirmed its previous positions with respect to S.l
as to criminal attempt, criminal conspiracy and criminal
solicitation (Conf. Rept., 1975, p. 19). Judge Zirpoli
pointed out that with respect to all three offenses that
there is provided an affirmative defense of renunciation
which, in the view of the Committee, would be too cir­
cumscribed.
   (6) The Conference recommended revision of the bail
provisions of proposed Section 3502 of S. 1437 to au­
thorize judicial officers, in setting conditions of release, to
                             82 

consider safety to any other person or the community.
   (7) The Conference was in agreement with the Commit­
tee that is it a mistake to scrap all of the provisions of the
Youth Corrections Act. Despite abuses which have been
committed under the present legislation, the Conference
is of the opinion that a statute should provide some discre­
tion to the court in setting aside a conviction of a young
offender, or of an offender of any age where the offender
is without a prior record and has fulfilled all of the terms
and conditions of his probation.
   (8) Sentencing Commission-Judge Zirpoli advised the
 Conference that since the Committee last met, a change
 had been made in the provisions for a sentencing commis­
sion which would now provide for the appointment of
four members by the President and three by the Chief
Justice at salaries equal to those of a United States circuit
judge which, in the view of the Conference, could not be
justified for the sentencing commission. The Conference
therefore voted to recommend to the Congress that it
adhere to its earlier draft as to the method of appointment
and payment of members of the sentencing commission.
The Conference expressed the view that if the integrity of
the principle of separation of powers is to be maintained,
another needless and expensive entity should not be
created which would in many ways only duplicate the serv­
ices currently being performed effectively and efficiently
by the Administrative Office of the United States Courts
and the Federal Judicial Center.

         COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION 

                OF THE JURY SYSTEM 

  Judge Arthur J. Stanley, Jr., Chairman of the Commit­
tee on the Operation of the Jury System, presented the
report of the Committee.

          CONDUCT OF VOIR DIRE EXAMINATION

  Judge Stanley advised the Conference that a subcom­
mittee had studied the conduct of voir dire examinations
and reported to the Committee on this subject. The re­
port, which was approved by the Committee and by the
Conference, reaffirms the previous positions taken in
                                83 

 1960 and again in 1970 that the voir dire examination in
the federal courts should be conducted directly by district
judges rather than by attorneys or by litigants. The report
nevertheless recommends that judges should consider the
feasibility of permitting some direct questioning of the
jury panel by counsel on a carefully controlled basis in
cases where such an exercise of judicial discretion would
 be appropriate under Rule 24(a), Federal Rules of Crimi­
 nal Procedure, and Rule 47(a), Federal Rules of Civil Pro­
cedure. The report urges the Federal Judicial Center in its
training programs to include instructions geared to
achieve the proper and comprehensive voir dire examina­
tion of federal jurors. The report bases its preference for
judge-conducted voir dire examinations primarily on their
effectiveness in insulating prospective jurors from the sort
of prejudicial influence which might stem from the con­
duct or approach taken by attorneys in personally con­
ducting the voir dire questioning; a secondary reason is
the conservation of time which the subcommittee per­
ceived in reserving the questioning process to the judge.

                          LEGISLATION
  Three bills introduced in the 95th Congress carry out
previous recommendations of the Judicial Conference.
   (l) H.R. 7809, to make the excuse of prospective jurors from
      service on the grounds of distance from the place of hold­
      ing court contingent upon the showing of hardship on an
      individual basis;
   (2) H.R. 7810, to increase the attendance fees and reimbursa­
       ble expenses payable to federal jurors and to provide for a
       civil penalty and injunctive relief in the event of a discharge
       or threatened discharge of an employee by reason of his
       federal jury service, and
   (3) H.R. 7813, to provide for six-person juries in civil cases, to
       establish statutory presumption with names of prospective
       jurors selected from voter lists representing a fair cross­
       section of the community, to clarify the means of eligibility
       for jury service by restoration of civil rights following con­
       viction of a crime, to add certain definitions applicable with
       respect to jury selection by automated data processing, and
       to extend to federal jurors the protection of the Federal
       Employees Compensation Act.
                            84
  On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
reaffairmed its endorsement of these legislative proposals
and, particularly, urged prompt action by the Congress in
regard to H.R. 7810.
Grand Jury Reform
   With respect to H.R. 94, which the Conference consid­
ered in connection with the Committee on the Administra­
tion of the Criminal Law (see above, p. 79), the Committee
recommended, and the Conference agreed, that a model
grand jury charge should be promulgated in an attempt to
develop a means of giving grand jurors effective notice of
their rights and obligations without the necessity oflegisla­
tion. The Committee further recommended that the Con­
ference disapprove that portion of H.R. 94 which would
authorize the summoning of additional persons "from the
body of the district" when an insufficient number of
grand jurors attend. Instead the Committee recom­
mended that additional grand jurors should be sum­
moned directly from voter lists, as provided with respect
to petit jurors at 28 U.S.c. §1866(f). The Conference
agreed to this recommendation and authorized the com­
munication of its views in this regard to the Congress.

            REVIEW OF ABA TRIAL STANDARDS
   On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
authorized a study of the American Bar Association
Standards Relating to Trial Courts as to their application
and effect on the federal courts. The Committee was par­
ticularly concerned by, and recommended referral to the
Judicial Conference with a view to correcting, abuses in
the selection of jurors, as well as considering the im­
plementation of modern improvements in jury trial pro­
cedure, such as interrogatories, special verdicts and im­
proved communication of instructions via videotape. The
Chairman was authorized, as he deemed appropriate, to
assign this problem to the Jury Committee or to a sub­
committee which he might form for this purpose.

 COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
 The report of the Committee on Intercircuit Assign­
ments was submitted for the record by the Chairman,
                             85 

Judge George L. Hart, J r.
   The report covering the period from February 16 to
August 15, 1977 shows that during this period the Com­
mittee recommended 79 assignments to be undertaken by
47 judges. Of this number, two are senior circuit judges,
one is an active circuit judge, six are district judges in ac­
tive status and 27 are senior district judges. Twenty-four
assignments involved two active judges and two senior
judges of the Court of Claims, two active and one senior
judge of the Customs Court, three active judges of the
Court of Customs and Patent Appeals and one retired Su­
preme Court Justice of the United States.
   Two senior circuit judges, 18 senior district judges and
two senior judges from the Court of Claims carried out 35
of the 46 assignments to the circuit courts of appeals
which were recommended during this period. One active
circuit judge, two active judges of the Court of Customs
and Patent Appeals and two active judges of the Court of
Claims participated in the other eleven assignments to the
courts of appeals. In addition, Retired Associate Justice
Tom C. Clark at the time of his death had been desig­
nated to sit in eight circuit court assignments.
   Of the 25 assignments to the district courts, 13 senior
district judges participated in 15 assignments, the remain­
ing ten being carried out by six active district judges, one
active and one senior judge of the Customs Court and one
active judge of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals.




            COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT 

            THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT 

  The report of the Committee to Implement the Crimi­
nal Justice Act was presented by the Chairman, Judge
Dudley B. BonsaI.
               ApPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

  The Committee received and authorized the Director of
the Administrative Office to transmit to the chief judges
of the circuit and district courts, the defender organiza­
                             86 

 tions and other interested parties the report of the Admin­
 istrative Office on appointments and payments covering
 the first half of fiscal year 1977.
   The report reflects that the sum of $21,000,000 was ap­
propriated by Congress for CJA operations in fiscal year
 1977. A projected deficiency of approximately $1,000,000
was taken into account in the budget for fiscal year 1978
and the Congress has appropriated the necessary funds to
liquidate those obligations.
    During the first half of fiscal year 1977, 20,614 persons
were represented by assigned counsel or by defender or­
ganizations established pursuant to the Criminal Justice
Act. This compares with 19,613 appointments in the first
half of fiscal year 1976. While the number of case assign­
ments in the first half of fiscal year 1977 was thus five
percent greater than in the comparable period in fiscal
year 1976, the annual projection for the two years is the
same. An increase of approximately four percent in the
volume of appointments is forecast for fiscal year 1978.
   The cost of operating the twenty-four federal public de­
fender offices in fiscal year 1977 is expected to average
$440 per case (includil1g appeals). The comparable esti­
mate for the eight community defender organizations,
which are receiving sustaining grants, is $407 per case
while representation by CJA panel attorneys should aver­
age $405.
   The cost of providing transcripts, expert and other serv­
ices during the first half of fiscal year 1977 was $672,769
compared with $518,886 for the first six months of fiscal
year 1976. Current estimates indicate that as later claims
attributable to fiscal year 1977 are processed, the total cost
for fiscal year 1977 should reach approximately
$2,400,000.


                    BUDGET REQUESTS
  The Committee presented and the Conference ap­
proved budget requests for federal public defenders for
supplemental requests for fiscal year 1978 and for
budget requests for fiscal year 1979. The budgets were
approved in the following amounts:
                                               87 

                                           FY 1978                               FY1979
                                 Supplemental Requests                Budgetary Requests
                                 Allys. Inv.    Seeys.     Aml.    Allys.   Inv.   Secys.   AmI.
Arizona .. .. ... -.........                                        12       2      7 $576,000
Calif, N. o   ••••••••••••••••                           $20,000     9       I      5 450,688
Calif., E . .................                                        7       2      4 391,000
Calif., C..................                               24,000    18       5     12 957,000
Colorado .................                                30,019     4       1      2 211,110
Connecticut . ..............                               8,222     4       1      2 192,000
Florida . ..................                                         8       2      5 390,068
Kansas ...................                                           4       1      2 229,000
Kentucky, E . ..............                                         3              1 154,000
Louisiana, E . ............ .                                        5       1      3 240,000
Maryland .. , .............                               10,000     7       2      4  383,000
Missouri, W . ..............                              10,000     8       I      4 398,511
Nevada .... ...... .......                                           4       1      2 216,987
New Jeney ........ ..... .                                 6,000     7       3      4 387,000
New Mexico ......... , ....                                          3              2 164,884
Ohio, N. .................                                           5              2 228,258
Pa., W. ..................                                           3              2 208,000
S. Carolina . ..............                                         3              2 $155,761
Tenn., W. ................                                           2              1   97,717
Texas, S. ....... - .........                                        7       2      5 359,180
Texas, W . .... , ...........                             $7,000     7       2      5 376,000
Virgin Is . .... ............                                        3       2      2 228,000
Wash., W . ................                               10,000     5              3 267,000
W. Va., S .................                                          2              1 113,151
TOTALS ................            2               I $125,241      140      35     82 $7,374,315


  In addition, the Conference approved budget requests
for two new federal public defender offices in the South­
ern District of Georgia and in the District of Puerto Rico
which were established since the last session of the Con­
ference in the following amounts:
Georgia, S. ... ............      3        1      2 $168,987         3              2 $176,775 

Puerto Rico...............        2    -          1 123,456          2              1 124,883 


  The addition of these two public defender offices brings
to 26 the number of such offices now operational.

        PAROLE COMMISSION AND REORGANIZATION ACT

   Pursuant to the ruling of the Comptroller General of
June 16, 1977, B-156932, that appointment of counsel for
financially eligible persons facing parole termination pro­
ceedings is mandatory and that compensation is payable
from CJA appropriations, the Conference approved the
following revised guidelines for the administration of the
Criminal Justice Act, as follows:
                                  88 

1-2.01   DISTRICT PLANS

 A. Each 	d istrict court, with the approval of the judicial council,
    is required to have a plan for furnishing representation for
    any person financially unable to obtain adequate representa­
    tion:
     1. 	 who is charged with a felony or misdemeanor (other than
          a petty offense as defined in Section 1 of Title 18 of the
          V nited States Code, unless the defendant, charged with a
          petty offense, faces the likelihood of loss of liberty, if con­
          victed) or with juvenile delinquency (see 18 V.S.C. 5034)
          or with a violation of probation or parole,
     2. 	 * * *
     3. 	who is 8U~@ct to r@vocation of parole, in custody as a ma­
          terial witness, or seeking collateral relief, as provided in
          Subsection (g), or
     4. 	 * * *
     5. 	who is facing a parole termination hearing pursuant to Section
         4211 (c), Title 18 of the United States Code.
2-2.22   LIMITATIONS

  A. 	 ***
  B. 	Maximum Compensation
     1. 	 Preliminary Proceedings and Proceedings Before a United States
          District Court.
          Compensation (exclusive of allowable expenses) is limited
          to $1,000 for each attorney in a case in which one or more
          felonies are charged, to $400 for each attorney in a case in
          which only misdemeanors are charged in preliminary pro­
          ceedings and proceedings before a V nited States district
          court, and to $250 for each attorney in connection with a
          post-trial motion made after entry of judgment, or in a
          probation or parole revocation or parole termination proceed­
          ing, or for representation as provided under Subsection
          (g).***
         AMENDMENTS TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT

  The Conference approved and authorized transmission
to the Congress of amendments to the Criminal Justice
Act which conform the Act to the Juvenile Delinquency
Act and the Parole Commiss.ion and Reorganization Act,
provide counsel for grand jury witnesses who are putative
defendants, and authorize expert services necessary for
                                   89 

adequate representation. The Confernece decided that
the question of how much to raise rates and maximum
limits, as proposed in the most recent draft of S. 1437, was
a policy matter best left to Congress.
  The proposed changes, as approved by the Conference,
are, as follows:
  1. Amend Section 3006A, (a) to read:
        (a) CHOICE OF PLAN.-Each United States district court,
     with the approval of the judicial council of the circuit,
     shall place in operation throughout the district a plan for
     furnishing representation for any person financially un­
     able to obtain adequate representation (1) who is charged
     with a felony or misdemeanor (other than a petty offense
     as defined in section 1 of this title) or with juvenile delin­
     quency by the commission of an act which, if committed
     by an ad1:llt, w01:lld be sHch a felony or misdemeanor or
     with a violation of probation or parole, (2) who is under
     arrest, when such representation is required by law, (3)
     who is a witness appearing before a grand jury or court where
    there is reason to believe, either prior to or during testimony,
     that the witness could be subject to any criminal prosecution or
    face loss of liberty, (4) who is sl-lbject te F@vecation of
     parol@, in custody as a material witness, or seeking collat­
     eral relief, as provided in subsection (g), (5) who isfacing
    a parole termination hearing pursuant to Section 4211 (c), Title
     18 of the United States Code, or, (6) for whom the Sixth
     Amendment to the Constitution requires the appoint­
     ment of counsel or for whom, in a case in which he faces
     loss of liberty, any Federal law requires the appointment
     of counsel. Representation under each plan shall include
     counsel and investigative, expert, and other services
     necessary for -an adequate defense representation. Each
     plan shall include a provision for private attorneys. The
     plan may include, in addition to a provision for private
     attorneys in a substantial proportion of cases, either of
     the following or both: ***
  2. Amend the second sentence of Section 3006A(b) to read as
follows:
        In @v@ry criminal any case in which the defendant a
     person is charged with a felony or misdemeanor (other
     than a petty offense is denied in section I of this titl@) or
     with j1:lvenil@ d@linq1:l@nc}, by the commission of an act
     which if committ@d by an adult, would be such a felony
                                 90
     or misdemeanor or with a violation of probation and ap
     pears without counsel" may be entitled to representation pur­
     suant to a plan and appears without counsel, the United
     States magistrate or the court shall advise the defeRdaRl
     person that he has the right to be represented by counsel
     and that counsel will be appointed to represent him if he
     is financially unable to obtain counsel.
  3. Amend Section 3006A, (d) (1) to read as follows:
       (1) HOURLY RATE.-Any attorney appointed pursuant
     to this section or a bar association or legal aid agency or
    community defender organization which has provided
     the appointed attorney shall, at the conclusion of the
     representation or any segment thereof, be compensated
    at a rate not exceeding $30 per hour for time expended
     in court or before a United States Magistrate and $20 per
     hour for time reasonably expended out of court, or such
    other hourly rate, fixed by the Judicial Council of the
    Circuit, not to e;x;ceed the minimum hourly scale estab­
    lished ~y a ~ar associatioR for similar services reRd@Fed
    iR the district. not to exceed the usual minimum hourly rate in
    the district for similar services. Such attorney shall be reim­
    bursed for expenses reasonably incurred, including the
    costs of transcripts authorized by the United States
    magistrate or the court.
  4. Amend Section 3006A, (d) (2) by adding at the end of the
subsection the foilowing;
       For representation required to be provided under this
     chapter by any Federal law, when not otherwise pre­
     scribed, the compensation to be paid to an attorney may
     not exceed $400.
  5. Amend Section 3006A, (e) (1) by changing the first sentence as
follows:
      Counsel for a person who is financially unable to ob­
    tain investigative, expert, or other services necessary for
    aH adequate defeRS€! representation may request them in
    an ex parte application.
 6. Amend Section 3006A, (e) (2) as follows:
       (2) WITHOUT PRIOR REQUEST.-Counsel appointed
    under this section may obtain, subject to later review, in­
    vestigative, expert, or other services without prior au­
    thorization if necessary for ~ adequate defense represen­
    tation. The total cost of services obtained without prior
                              91
    authorization may not exceed $150 and expenses rea­
    sonably incurred.
  7. Amend Section 3006A, (g) by deleting the words "subject to
revocation of parole,".


   COMMITTEE ON THE RULES OF PRACTICE 

            AND PROCEDURE 


   The report of the Committee on Rules of Practice and
Procedure was submitted for the record by the Chair­
man, Judge Roszel C. Thomsen.
  Judge Thomsen advised the Conference that the Of­
fice of General Counsel of the Administrative Office
had prepared and submitted to the Committee a histori­
cal survey of the rule-making power of the federal courts
as well as a memorandum detailing various proposals
for changes in the rule-making program which have
been made in the Congress and in legal publications.
The Chairman also advised that the Committee had
agreed to the appointment of an ad hoc committee to
draft operational procedures, both for the Standing
Committee and the various advisory committees.
                     ApPELLATE RULES
 The Committee circulated to the bench and bar proposed
amendments prepared by the Advisory Committee on
Appellate Rules to the Federal Rules of Appellate Proce­
dure. Comments are due no later than November 15,
1977, after which they will be considered by the Advisory
Committee.

                      CRIMINAL RULES
  Judge Thomsen also advised that on July 30, 1977, the
President signed into law Public Law 95-78 which incorpo­
rates in the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure the
amendments to subdivisions (b) and (c) of Rule 23, as ap­
proved by the Supreme Court, eliminates the amendment
to Rule 24 and the proposed new Rule 40.1 as approved
by the Supreme Court and amends the proposed changes
to subdivision (e) of Rule 6 and subdivision (c) of Rule 41.
                               92 

The legislation further amends Section 1446 of Title 28,
United States Code, concerning removal proceedings.
These amended sections and rules become effective on
October 1, 1977.

      COMMITTEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES
   The report of the Committee on Pacific Territories was
presented by the Chairman, Judge Richard H. Chambers.
   The Conference approved the following recommenda­
tions of the Committee.

LGuam
      A. That insofar as the views of the Judicial Conference
    may be solicited, the Committee should be empowered to
    recommend on behalf of the Conference that the present
    appellate route for local courts--comprehending the ap­
    pellate division of the district court, the United States
    Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and the Supreme
    Court of the United States--currently is the most appro­
    priate for review of decisions from Guam's local courts,
    and should be retained.
      B. That any statement on the judicial system for Guam
    in accordance with paragraph A above should recom­
    mend retention of diversity jurisdiction for the District
    Court of Guam.
II. American Samoa
      A. That the Committee should be empowered to en­
   dorse in principle, on behalf of the Judicial Conference
   (if the Congress and Samoans favor outside review), the
   draft legislation which provides for appellate review by
   writ of certiorari to the Ninth Circuit of the decisions of
   the High Court of American Samoa, subject to the two
   enumerated jurisdictional limitations concerning matai
   titles and communally-owned land.
      B. That a further jurisdictional limitation which would
   exclude immigration matters from the class of appealable
   decisions in the draft legislation involves questions of
   legislative policy which properly should be resolved by
   the Congress of the United States, and accordingly, the
   Judicial Conference expressed on opinion on this juris­
   dictional limitation.
      C. The Conference endorsed the interim solution to
                                 93 

    the companionate review problem of the High Court of
    American Samoa, which calls for the use of federal
    judges to participate in the hearing of appeals in accord­
    ance with section IV below.
III. Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
       A. That the Committee should be empowered to en­
    dorse on behalf of the Judicial Conference the draft legis­
    lation which provides for the establishment of the District
    Court of the Northern Mariana Islands and for the ap­
    pointment of its judge and other officers, subject to clarifi­
    cation of the provision concerning coterminous expiration
    of the terms of dual appointments of officers of the court,
    and subject to the following further recommendations:
          1. The legislation should make applicable to the Dis­
       trict Court of the Northern Mariana Islands the rules
      heretofore or hereafter promulgated and made effec­
      tive pursuant to sections 2072, 2075, and 2076 of Title
      28, United States Code; and sections 3771 and 3772 of
      Title 18, United States Code; and the Federal Rules of
      Evidence, except insofar as otherwise provided in the
      covenant (Covenant to Establish the Northern Mariana
       Islands) with respect to the requirements of indictment
      by grand jury and trial by jury when the district court is
      exercising jurisdiction other than the jurisdiction of a
      district court of the United States.
             2. The legislation should include a provision to es­
      tablish a procedural framwork to guide operation of the
      Appellate division, analogous to that provided for the
      appellate division of the District Court of Guam.
          3. The legislation should empower any judge tem­
      porarily assigned to the District Court of the Northern
      Mariana Islands (when there is no incumbent) by the
      ChiefJustice or the ChiefJudge of the Ninth Circuit to
      appoint on a tempoarary basis individuals to statutory
      offices.
             4. The legislation should amend Article IV of the
      covenant to provide that review by the United States
      Court of Appeals of decisions of the appellate division
      will be by writ of certiorari in accordance with rules
      promulgated by the court of appeals.
             5. The legislation should amend Article IV of the
      covenant to provide that only one judge of the appellate
      division of the district court will be a judge of a com­
      monwealth court of record of the Northern Mariana
      Islands, which judge shall be, or shall have been at the
                                94
      time of his appointment to the court of record of the
      Northern Mariana Islands, a licensed attorney admitted
      to practice before the highest court of a state or territory
      who was in good standing at the time of his appointment.
      B. That the Committee should be empowered on be­
    half of the Judicial Conference to endorse the appoint­
    ment of a judge, a clerk of court, a United States Attor­
    ney, and a United States Marshal for the District Court
    for the Northern Mariana Islands who shall hold office
    independent of appointment to the same office in
    another court, including specifically the District Court of
    Guam.

IV. Truncated Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
       A. The Conference endorsed, consistent with the
    needs of the courts of the United States and available
    manpower, the policy of encouraging judges and senior
    judges to assist whenever possible by sitting in local ter­
    ritorial courts to hear appeals, subject to the understand­
    ing that such assistance will be accomplished without ad­
    ditional expense to the federal judiciary.
       B. That the Secretary of the Interior, in accordance
    with paragraph A above, be advised that the Conference
    will not object to a secretarial order permitting, on an
    experimental basis, any active or retired Article III or
    federal territorial judge appointed by the President to
    serve as a judge in the High Court of American Samoa
    and the High Court of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands.


            REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE 

              ON THE BICENTENNIAL 

                OF INDEPENDENCE 

             AND THE CONSTITUTION 

  The report of the Committee on the Bicentennial was
submitted for the record by Judge Clement F.
Haynsworth, Jr. Chairman.
  The report reflects that five films and two videotapes
have been produced for use in broadcasting and in teach­
ing; that the biographical directory is proceeding but has
been delayed by the failure of some judges to respond to
questionnaires; that a manuscript has been prepared of
                            95 

the book written for the high school and college level on
the federal judiciary and is now being reviewed; and that
circuit histories have been completed on some of the
courts and that several others are in preparation.

           COMMITTEE TO CONSIDER 

          STANDARDS FOR ADMISSION 

     TO PRACTICE IN THE FEDERAL COURTS 

  Judge Edward J. Devitt, Chairman of the Committee to
Consider Standards for Admission to Practice in the Fed­
eral Courts, submitted for the record the report of the
work of the Committee.
  The report reflects that the Committee has held four
meetings and has conducted four public hearings in Wash­
ington, Los Angeles, Chicago and Boston; and that it ex­
pects to have its recommendations ready for presentation
to the Judicial Conference at its session in September
1978.

             PRETERMISSION OF TERMS 

            OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS 

  The Conference approved the pretermission of terms of
courts of appeals, pursuant to 28 U.S.c. 48, for sessions of
the Eighth Circuit at Kansas City, Missouri and Omaha,
Nebraska for the balance of 1977 and until after the next
session of the Conference.

        RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION
  The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for
legislative or administrative action.
                             WARREN E. BURGER
                      Chief Justice of the United States
OCTOBER   20, 1977
                              INDEX

                                                                Po"e
Administrative law judges (H.R. 865) ....................... .49 

Administrative Office of the V.S. Courts 

   Annual report of the Director .... , ................ , .... .47 

   Report of speedy trial act of 1974 ...................... .47 

Administrative regulations, change in ........................64 

Admission to practice in the federal courts, standards 

 to consider: 

   Committee on, report of ................................95 

Amendments to the criminal justice act ......................88 

Appellate rules .............................................91 

Appointments and payments under the criminal justice 

 act .......................................................85 

Appropriations: 

   Estimates for fiscal year 1979 ............................58 

   Fiscal year 1978 ........................................57 

Bankruptcy legislation: 

   Ad hoc committee on, report of .........................72 

   Recommendations:
        Approve appointment of referees by circuit
           councils ..........................................73 

        Approve increasing jurisdiction of
           bankruptcy courts ................................72 

        Approve increasing terms of office of
           refer.ees from six to twelve years ...................73 

        Disapprove enlarging membership of Judicial
           Conference and board of Federal Judicial
           Center to include referees in bankruptcy ...........73 

        Disapprove establishment of separate
           office of V nited States trustee .....................72 

Bankruptcy system: 

   Committee on, report of ................................69 

   Legislation: 

        H.R. 8200, to establish a uniform law 

           on the subject of bankruptcies .....................71 

        S. 	 1448, S. 795, to create a temporary 

           Petroleum Industry Divestiture Court ..............72 


                               96 

                                97 

                                                                   Page 

Bankruptcy system (continued)
     Referees salary and expense fund .......................71 

     Salaries and arrangements for referees ..................69 

Bicentennial of independence and the constitution: 

     Biographical directory ..................................94 

     Circuit histories ........................................95 

     Committee on, report of ................................94 

     Movies project ..........................................94 

     Popular book ...........................................94 

Bilingual courts act .........................................50 

Biographical directory ......................................94 

Budget: 

     Appropriations for fiscal year 1978 ......................57 

     Budget estimates for fiscal year 1979 ....................58 

     Civil arbitration-pilot program ... . ....................59 

     Committee on, report of ................................57 

     Budget requests for criminal justice act ..................86 

Child, right of support to every unemancipated ..............53 

Circuit histories ............................................95 

Civil arbitration-pilot program .............................59 

Civil service annuity payments to judges ..................... 50 

Clerk of court: 

     Mission statement ...................................... ,48 

     Senior staff attorneys-courts of appeals .................56 

Comptroller General's decision, B-156932, re 

  appointment of counsel under criminal justice act ..........87 

Conference: 

     Call of .................................................45 

     Release of action .......................................95 

Court administration: 

     Biennial survey of judgeship needs ......................54 

     Bilingual courts act .....................................50 

     Civil service annuity payments to judges .................50 

    Committee on, report of ............................... ,48 

     Disbursement function ................................. ,48 

     Diversity jurisdiction ....................................52 

     Federal right to support ................................53 

    Labor court ............................................52 

     Legislation: 

          Administrative law judges (H.R. 865) ............... .49 

          Bilingual courts act (draft bills) ......................50 

         Civil Service annuity payments to Judges 

            (H.R. 4320) ......................................50 

          Diversity jurisdiction (H.R. 5546) ....................52 

          Federal right to support (H.R. 6196) .................53 

                                98 

                                                                  Page

Court administration (continued) 

  Legislation (continued) 

          Labor court (H.R. 3396) ............................52 

          Minimum level for retirement salaries 

            (H.R. 5781) ......................................53 

          Panel on multidistrict litigation ......................52 

          Salaries (H.R. 5876) .................................52 

          Speedy trial act, amendments to ..................... 53 

         Telecommunications privacy act .....................51 

          Witness fees (H.R. 8220) ............................53 

    Minimum level for retirement salaries ...................53 

    Office of clerk of court ................................ .48 

    Panel on multidistrict litigation ..........................52 

    Salaries ................................................52 

    Speedy trial act ......................................... 53 

    Status of senior judges ................................. .48 

    Supporting personnel: 

              Court reporters .................................55 

              Lexis operators ................................. 57 

              Satellite libraries ................................54 

              Senior staff attorneys-courts of appeals .........56 

   Telecommunications privacy act .........................51 

   Witness fees ............................................53 

Court reporters: 

    Increase in salary ....................................... 55 

Courts: 

   Courts of appeals: 

         Biennial survey of needs ............................54 

         Pretermission of terms of court ......................95 

         Satellite library study ...............................54 

         Senior staff attorneys ...............................56 

         Statistics ............................................47 

   District courts: 

         Biennial survey of needs ............................54 

         Bilingual courts act .................................50 

         Civil arbitration-pilot program .....................59 

         Increase jurisdiction of bankruptcy courts ............72 

         Increase jurisdiction of magistrates ..................62 

         Interchange of duties of magistrates and 

            referees in bankruptcy ............................63 

         Labor court, creation of .............................52 

         Lexis operator ......................................57 

         Permit a federal court to place certain 

            persons charged with federal crimes in
                                99 

                                                                 Page

 Courts (continued)
  District courts (continued) 

            programs under community supervision 

            and services (H.R. 5792) ..........................75 

         Statistics ...........................................47 

    Temporary Petroleum Industry Divestiture Court ........72 

Criminal justice act: 

    Amendments to the criminal justice act ..................88 

    Appointments and payments ............................85 

    Budget requests ........................................86 

    Committee on, report of ................................85 

    Parole commission and reorganization act ................87 

Criminal law: 

    Committee on, report of ................................79 

    Federal criminal code ............ , ......... , ............80 

    Grand jury reform ......................................84 

    Legislation: 

         Amend chapter 315 of title 18 U.S.C. to 

           authorize payment of transportation 

           expenses by U.S. marshals for persons 

           released pending appearance in another 

           district-approved ................................79 

         Grand jury reform (H.R. 94)-disapproved .......... 79 

         Recodification of federal criminal code 

           (S. 1437, successor to S. 1) ........................ 80 

    Release of persons pending appearance in 

       another district .......................................79 

Criminal rules ..............................................91 

Disbursement function ..................................... .48 

Diversity jurisdiction ........................................52 

Federal Judicial Center: 

    Report of ..............................................46 

Guidelines: 

    Criminal justice act .....................................87 

Intercircuit assignments: 

    Committee on, report of ................................84 

Judges: 

    Biennial survey of needs ............ ; ...................54 

    Civil service annuity payments to ........................50 

    Minimum level for retirement salaries ...................53 

    Status of senior .........................................48 

Judicial activities: 

    Committee on, report of ................................61 

    Opinions of ............................................61 

                               100 

                                                                 Page

Judicial conduct:
     Amendments of canons 5C (2). 5D and 5G ...............60
     Joint committee on, report of ...........................60
Judicial system, popular book on ............................94 

Jurisdiction:
     Diversity ...............................................52
     Enlarge jurisdiction of U.S. magistrates ., ................ 73
     Increase jurisdiction of bankruptcy courts ................72
     Temporary petroleum industry divestiture court to
       referees ..............................................72
Jurors:
     Increase the attendance fees and reimbursable
       expenses payable to federal jurors and
       provide for a civil penalty and injunctive
       relief in the event of a discharge or threatened
       discharge of an employee by reason of his
       federal jury service (H.R. 7810) .......................83
     Make the excuse of prospective jurors from service
       on the grounds of distance from the place of
       holding court contingent upon the showing of
       hardship (H.R. 7809) .................................83
     Review of ABA trial standards to correct abuses
       in the selection of jurors ..............................84
Jury:
     Grand jury reform (H.R. 94) ........................79, 84
     Provide for six person juries in civil cases,
       etc. (H.R. 7813) ......................................83 

     Review of ABA trial standards concerned with
       implementation of modern improvements in
       jury trial procedure ...................................84
Jury reform, grand (H.R. 94) ............................79,84 

Jury system:
     Committee on, report of ................................82
     Conduct of voir dire examinations .......................82
     Legislation:
         H.R. 94-Grand jury reform .................... 79,84 

         H.R. 7809, 7810, 7813 ..............................83 

     Review of ABA trial standards ..........................84 

Legislation:
     Administrative law judges (H.R. 865) ................... .49
     Amend chapter 315 of title 18 U.S. C. to
       authorize payment of transportation expenses
       by U.S. marshals for persons released pending
       appearance in another district-approved ..............79
                                101 

                                                                   Page

Legislation (continued) 

    Amendments to the magistrates act (S. 1613) .............62 

    Bankruptcy legislation-interchange of duties 

      of magistrates and referees in bankruptcy ..............63 

    Bilingual courts act (draft bills) ........................ , .50 

    Civil service annuity payments to judges .................50 

    Create a temporary petroleum industry divestiture 

      court (S. 1448, S. 795) ................................72 

    Diversity jurisdiction (H.R. 5546) ........................ 52 

    Establish a uniform law on the subject of 

      bankruptcies (H.R. 8200) ..............................71 

    Federal right to support (H.R. 6196) .....................53 

    Grand jury reform (H.R. 94) ............................ 79 

    Labor court (H.R. 3396) ................................ 52 

    Minimum level for retirement salaries (H.R. 5781) ........53 

    Panel on multidistrict litigation ..........................52 

    Permit a federal court, upon the recommendation 

      of the U.S. prosecutor to place certain persons 

      charged with federal crimes in programs of 

      community supervision and services (H.R. 5792) .......75 

    Pretrial services agency-proposal to amend 

       18 U.S.C. 3153 to provide that a U.S. 

      magistrate shall be a member of the 

      board of trustees and to provide that pretrial 

      service officers shall be considered law 

      enforcement officers under the federal tort 

      claims act ............................................76 

    Recodification of federal criminal code
      (S. 1437, successor to S. 1) ............................80 

    Salaries (H.R. 5876) .....................................52 

    Speedy trial act, amendments to .........................53 

    Telecommunications privacy act .........................51 

    Witness fees (H.R. 8220) ................................53 

Lexis operators .............................................57 

Libraries, satellite ...........................................54 

Magistrates: 

    Changes in positions ....................................64 

    Enlarging civil and criminal jurisdiction of 

      (S. 1613) .............................................62 

    Interchange of duties with referees in 

      bankruptcy ...........................................63 

    Investigations of misconduct ............................64 

    Qualification standards and selection 

      procedures ...........................................63 

                              102 

                                                               Page

Magistrates system (continued) 

    Salaries of ..............................................63 

Magistrates system: 

    Amendments to the magistrates act ......................62 

    Bankruptcy legislation ..................................63 

    Change in administrative regulations ....................64 

    Changes in magistrate positions .........................64 

    Committee on, report of ................................62 

    Investigations of misconduct ............................64 

    Legislation: 

          Amendments to the magistrates act (S. 1613) .........62 

          Bankruptcy legislation-interchange of 

            duties of magistrates and referees in 

            bankruptcy .......................................63 

    Qualification standards and selection procedures .........63 

    Salaries of magistrates ..................................63 

Misconduct, investigations of, by magistrates .................64 

Movies project ..............................................94 

Opinions of advisory committee on judicial 

  activities ..................................................61 

Pacific territories: 

    Committee on, report of ................................92 

    Recommendations: 

          American Samoa ...................................92 

          Guam ..............................................92 

          Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands ........93 

         Truncated Trust Territory of Pacific Islands .........94 

Panel on multidistrict litigation: 

    Amend section 1407 of title 28 V.S.C. 

       to enlarge the authority of ............................52 

    Annual report ..........................................52 

Parole commission and reorganization act ....................87 

Presentence report monograph ..................... , ........78 

Pretermission of terms of courts of appeals ..................95 

Pretrial services agencies: 

    Legislative proposal to amend 28 V.S.C. 3153 ............76 

Probation officers: 

    Mandatory retirement of ................................73 

Probation system: 

    Committee on, report of ........................... '" ..73 

    Legislation: 

         Permit a federal court, upon the recom­ 

            mendation of the V.S. prosecutor, to 

            place certain persons charged with 

                                103 


 Probation system (continued)
  Legislation (continued) 

              federal crimes in programs of community 

              supervision and services ........................... 75 

          Pretrial services agencies~legislative 

              proposal to amend 18 V.S.C. 3153 to 

              provide that a V.S. magistrate shall 

              be a member of the board of trustees ..............76 

     Mandatory retirement ..................................73 

     Presentence report monograph .......................... 78 

     Probation personnel ....................................79 

     Sentencing institutes ....................................78 

     Statistical program ...................................... 74 

Referees: 

     Appointment by circuit councils, recommendation ........73 

     Increase term from six to twelve years ...................73 

     Salaries and arrangements for ...........................69 

     Salary and expense fund ................................71 

Release of persons pending appearance in 

  another district ........................................... 79 

Review committee: 

     Committee on, report of ................................ 59 

     Official officers who have not reported ..................60 

Rules of practice and procedure: 

     Appellate rules .........................................91 

     Committee on, report of ................ , ...............91 

     Criminal rules ..........................................91 

Salaries: 

     Court reporters .........................................55 

     Executive, legislative and judicial positions ...............52 

     Magistrates .............................................63 

     Minimum level for retirement ...........................53 

Sentencing institutes ........................................78 

Speedy trial act: 

     A.mendments to ........................................53 

Statistics: 

     Bankruptcy ............................................47 

     Courts of appeals ...................................... .4 7 

     Criminal justice act .....................................86 

     District courts ......................................... .47 

     Juror utilization ....................................... .48 

     Magistrates .............................................47 

     Program for probation system ...........................74 

                                             104 

                                                                                              Page
Supporting personnel: 

    Court reporters ... , . , , .. , . , , , , . , , , . , , . , , , , . , , , , , . , , , .. , .55 

    Lexis operators. , . , .......... " . , , . , , , ,., ... , .. , . , ... , .. 57 

    Probation personnel ....... ".,. """"""""""",79 

    Satellite libraries, , , . , .. , , . , ... , , , . , ... , ... , .............54 

    Senior staff attorneys-courts of appeals .................56 

Telecommunications privacy act .. , .............. , ........... 51 

Temporary petroleum industry divestiture court .............72 

Transcripts: 

    Proceedings before magistrates electronically 

      recorded ........... , ............................... , .64 

Trustee, establishment of U.S.-disapproved ................. 72 

Voir dire examinations, conduct of .. , ... , ...................82 

Witness fees ........... , ................... , ........ , , .. , , .. 53 

