          REPORT 


            of the 


   PROCEEDINGS OF THE 


JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 


      UNITED STATES 





        March 9-10, 1978




        Washington, D.C.
             1978
 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

           UNITED STATES COURTS 



                      William E. Foley 

                               Director 





For ..Ie by the Superintendent of OocumenlS. U.S. Gooemrnllflt Printing Office
                      Wnhington, D.C. 20402 - Price $1.80
                        Stock Nurmer 028-004-000U....8
          REPORT 


            of the 


   PROCEEDINGS OF THE 


JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 


      UNITED STATES 





        ~arch   9-10, 197b




        Washington, D.C.
                1978
         THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331

§ 331.   JumaAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES


   The Olief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of each judicial
circuit, the chief judge of the Court of Claims, the chief judge of the Court of Customs and Patent
Appeals, and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at s~h time and place in the
United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such conference which shall be known as the
Judicial Conference of the United States. Special sessions of the conference may be called by the
Chief Justice ar such times and places as he may designate.
   The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the circuit and
district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held pursuant to section 333
of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for three successive years, except that in the
year following the enactment of this amended section the judges in the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth
circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for one year, the judges in the second, fifth, and eighth
circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for two years and the judges in the third, sixth, ninth, and
District of Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge tb serve for three years.
   If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit is unable to
attend, the Olief Justice may summon any other circuit or district judge from such circuit. If the chief
judge of the Court of Claims or the chief judge of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals is unable
to attend, the Chief Justice may summoo an associate judge of such court. Every judge summoned
shall attend and, unless excused by the Chief Justice, shall remain throughout the sessions of the
conference and advise as to the needs of his circuit or court and as to any matters in respect nf which
the administration of justice in the courts of the United States may be improved.
   The conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the courts of the
United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from circuits or districts where
necessary, and shall submit suggestions to the various courts, in the interest of uniformity and
ex.pedition of business.
   The conference shall also carry on a continuous study of the operation and effect of the general
rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as prescribed by the Supreme Court for the
other courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes in and additions to those rules as the
conference may deem desirable to promote simplicity in procedure, fairness in administration, the
just determination of litigation, and the elimination of unjustifiable ex.pense and delay shall be
recommended by the conference from time to time to the Supreme Court for its consideration and
adoption, modification or rejection, in accordance with law.
   The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice, report to such conference on matters
relating to the business of the several courts of the United States, with particular reference to cases to
which the United States is a party.
  The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings of the Judicial
Conference and its recommendations for legislation.




                                                    (iv)
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

   REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE JUDICIAL 

       CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 

                MARCH 9-10, 1978 


                                                                                                        Page
 Call of the Conference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 

 Report of the Director of the Administrative 

     Office of the United States Courts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 

 Report of the Federal Judicial Center. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 

 Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 

 Committee on Court Administration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 

           Uniform Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 

           Depositions in Foreign Countries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 

          Outside Employment of Law Oerks and Secretaries .......... 5 

           Disposition of Federal Court Records ...................... 5 

          Civil Arbitration Pilot Program ........................... 6 

          Judicial Disability ...................................... 6 

           Diversity Jurisdiction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7 

          Civil Rights Improvements Act ........................... 8 

          Attorneys' Fees ........................................ 8 

          Judicial Review of Veterans' Claims. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9 

          Appellate Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court ................. to 

          National Court of Appeals ............................... to 

          Transportation of Students. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 

          Class Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 

          Collateral Estoppel in Antitrust Cases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. to 

          Enforcement of State Custody Orders ...................... 11 

          Transfer of Cases to Other Courts .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 11 

          Resignation of Judges ................................... II 

          Territorial Judges ....................................... II 

          Appellate Court Revision ................................ II 

          Law Oerks and Secretaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12 

Committee on the Budget ....................................... 12 

Review Committee ............................................. 13 

Joint Committee on the Code of Judicial Conduct ................... 15 

          Familial Relationships ................................... 15 

          Judicial Disqualification ................................. 15 

Advisory Committee on Judicial Activities ......................... 15 

                                                                                                                   ,
                                                    (v)
                                               (vi)

Committee on the Administration of the
     Federal Magistrates System .................................. 16 

          Amendments to the Magistrates Act ....................... 16 

          Qualification Standards and Selection Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . .. 17 

          Salaries of Full- Time Magistrates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 

          Changes in Magistrate Positions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 17 

          Investigations of Misconduct .............................. 22 

Ad Hoc Committee on Bankruptcy Legislation ...................... 22 

Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System ........... 23 

          Salaries and Arrangements for Referees ..................... 23 

Committee on the Administration of the Probation System ............ 27 

          Sentencing Institutes .................................... 27 

          Criminal Code Revision ................................. 28 

Committee on the Administration of the Criminal Law ............... 28 

          Criminal Code Revision ................................. 28 

          Domestic Surveillance of Foreign Intelligence ............... 28 

          Amendments to the Speedy Trial Act ...................... 29 

          Access to Financial Records .............................. 29 

Committee on the Operation of the Jury System ..................... 29 

          Bilingual Courts Legislation .............................. 29 

          Reports on the Composition of Juries ...................... 30 

          Juror Orientation Film ................................... 30 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments ............................ 30 

Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act ................... 31 

          Appointments and Payments .............................. 31 

          Grant Requests      Community Defender Organizations ....... 31 

          Budget Requests - Federal Public Defender Offices ......... 32 

          Guidelines ............................................. 32 

Committee on the Rules of Practice and Procedure .............'..... 32 

          Civil Rules ............................................ 33 

          Criminal Rules ......................................... 33 

          Appellate Rules ........................................ 33 

Committee on Pacific Territories ................................. 33 

Committee on the Bicentennial of Independence and the Constitution .... 34 

Committee to Consider Standards for Admission to Practice 

     in the Federal Courts ....................................... 34 

Memorial Resolution ........................................... 35 

Elections. '.' .................................................. 36 

Status of Judicial Officers ....................................... 36 

Pretennission of Tenns of the Courts of Appeals .................... 36 

Release of Conference Action .................................... 36 

         Report of the Proceedings of the Judicial 

             Conference of the United States 


                                March 9 and 10, 1978

   The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on March 9th,
1978, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United States,
issued under 28 USC 331, and continued in session on March 10th. The
Chief Justice presided and the following members of the Con­
ference were present:
District of Columbia Circuit:
     Judge Edward A. Tamm*
     Chief Judge William B. Bryant, District of Columbia
First Circuit:
     Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin
     Chief Judge Andrew A. Caffrey, District of Massachusetts
Second Circuit:
    Chief Judge Irving R. Kaufman
    Chief Judge T. Emmet Clarie, District of Connecticut
Third Circuit:
     Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz
     Chief Judge Lawrence A. Whipple, District of New Jersey
Fourth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr.
    Judge Charles E. Simons, Jr., District of South Carolina
Fifth Circuit:
     Chief Judge John R. Brown
     Chief Judge William C. Keady, Northern District of Mississippi
Sixth Circuit:
     Chief Judge Harry Phillips
     Chief Judge Cornelia G. Kennedy*, Eastern District of Michigan
Seventh Circuit:
     Chief Judge Thomas E. Fairchild
     Chief Judge James B. Parsons, Northern District of Illinois
Eighth Circuit:
     Chief Judge Floyd R. Gibson
     Chief Judge James H. Meredith, Eastern District of Missouri

·On designation of the Otief 1ustice

                                        (1)
                                      2


 Ninth Circuit:
      Chief Judge 'James R. Browning
      Chief Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Eastern District of California
 Tenth Circuit:
      Chief Judge Oliver Seth 

      Judge Wesley E. Brown, District of Kansas 

 Court of Claims:
     Acting Chief Judge Oscar H. Davis
 Court of Customs and Patent Appeals:
     Chief Judge Howard T. Markey

   Circuit Judge Robert A. Ainsworth, Jr.; Senior Circuit Judge Richard
 H. Chambers; District Judges C. Clyde Atkins, Edward J. Devitt,
 Robert E. Maxwell, and Edward Weinfeld; and Senior District Judges
Charles M. Metzner, Roszel C. Thomsen, Albert C. Wollenberg, and
 Alfonso J. Zirpoli, attended all or some of the sessions of the Conference.
   The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable Griffin B. Bell,
accompanied by the Solicitor General, Honorable Wade H. McCree,
attended the morning session of the first day of the Conference and
addressed the Conference briefly on matters of mutual interest to the
Department of Justice and the Conference.
   William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr.; Deputy Director; James E. Mack­
lin, Assistant Director; and Mark W. Cannon, Administrative Assistant
to the Chief Justice; attended the sessions of the Conference.
   The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo Levin, reported on
the activities of the Center since the last session of the Conference.

  REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE
       OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS
   The Director of the Administrative Office, Mr. Wi1liam E. Foley,
reported to the Conference on the state of the business of the United States
courts for the calendar year 1977.
   Mr. Foley's report indicated that the pending caseload in the United
States courts of appeals rose 5.1 percent during 1977, despite a substantial
increase of 7.4 percent in cases terminated. Although newly docketed
cases increased by only 61, the 18,916 appeals filed exceeded the 18,128
appeals terminated by 788, raising the current pending case load in the
courts of appeals to a newall-time high of 16,276 as of December 31,
1977.
                                     3


    Civil cases filed in the United States district courts rose to 135,628
during 1977, 5.3 percent above the number filed during 1976. Termi­
 nations increased 7.4 percent, but fell short of filings by 14,180 cases.
 The result was a record high of 163,798 pending civil cases on December
31.
    The increase in civil filings during 1977 was due in large part to a 52
percent increase in real property actions, mostly land condemnation cases
filed in the Southern District of Florida. Social Security reviews, other
 than "black lung", increased almost one-third, but "black lung" cases
declined more than 66 percent. Prisoner petitions increased almost 10
percent.
    Criminal cases filed in the district courts during 1977 dropped to
38,397, a decline of 8.4 percent from the previous year. Case dispositions
increased 7.6 percent and exceeded the number of cases filed by 2,371.
 As a result, criminal cases pending on December 31, 1977 decreased to
 16,960, a decline of 12 percent in the last year.
   In 1977 there were 208,433 bankruptcy cases filed in the district courts,
a decline of 8.1 percent compared to 1976. Terminations dropped 7
percent, but exceeded case filings by 17,587. This resulted in a pending
caseload of 245,557 bankruptcy cases on December 31st, which is 6.7
percent less than a year ago.
    The Federal Probation system experienced an increase both in the
number of persons received for supervision during 1977 and in the
number of persons removed from supervision. There were 46,990 per­
sons received for supervision in 1977 and 46,164 persons removed. On
 December 31 there were 65,105 persons under the supervision of federal
probation officers.
   United States magistrates handled almost 300,000 separate items of
judicial business in 1977, an increase of 15 percent. It is evident that the
increased work of magistrates reflects the growing trend in the district
courts of using magistrates to assist in the disposition of backlogged
dockets.
   The number of criminal cases assigned to federal public defenders
increased 6 percent in 1977. At the same time the number of cases closed
increased 11.3 percent, resulting in a decrease of 10.6 percent in the
pending caseload for these officers. Criminal cases assigned to com­
munity defender organizations increased 5.2 percent, cases closed in­
creased 7.5 percent, and the number of pending cases declined 9.7
percent.
                                     4

        REPORT OF THE FEDERAL JUDIOAL CENTER

   The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo Levin, presented
to the Conference the report and recommendations of the Board of the
Federal Judicial Center for improving libraries and research services in
the courts of appeals and district courts. The report is based upon a library
study conducted under the auspices of the Center. The Conference
approved the recommendations submitted and referred the report of the
Center to the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts.

    JUDICIAL PANEL ON MULTIDISTRICT LITIGA TlON
   The report submitted on behalf of the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
Litigation indicated that the Panel had conducted three hearings during
the six-month period ending December 31, 1977 and had issued 44 main
orders. The Panel acted on 25 new groups of multi district litigation cases
and ordered transfers in 16 groups encompassing 229 separate civil
actions of which 134 were transferred and 95 had been filed directly in the
transferee districts. The Panel denied transfer in nine groups of cases
consisting of 36 actions. In addition, 183 other cases were transferred by
the Panel as tag-along cases for inclusion in on-going centralized pretrial
proceedings. Since the establishment of the Panel in 1968 there have been
5,995 civil actions centralized in pretrial proceedings under 28 U.S. C.
1407.

         COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRA TlON

 Judge Robert A. Ainsworth, Jr., Chairman of the Committee on Court
Administration, presented the report of the Committee.
             Uniform Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement
   At the March 1977 session (Conf. Rept., p. 7) the Conference was
advised that proposed Guidelines for Uniform Rules of Disciplinary
Enforcement would be presented to the mid-year meeting of the House of
Delegates of the American Bar Association and to the annual meeting of
the Association in August 1977. Presentation ofthe rules, however, was
delayed and a fifth version was presented to the mid-winter meeting ofthe
House of Delegates in February 1978. A further report will be made to the
September session of the Conference.

                 Depositions in Foreign Countries
   The Conference, upon consideration of the report of the Committee,
disapproved, as a matter of policy, the practice of Federal judges trav­
                                         5

eling abroad to take testimony or depositions in cases pending before
them.
        Outside Employment of Law Clerks and Secretaries
   A survey of all Federal judges as to the practice in their courts
governing the outside employment of law clerks and secretaries disclosed
a need to modify the 1940 resolution of the Judicial Conference to prevent
inequities. Upon recommendation of the Committee the Conference
adopted the following resolution:
        A law clerk or a secretary to any judge of the United States, as
    defined by section 451 of title 28, United States Code, shall not
    engage in any employment outside of his or her official position which
     would be incompatible with the full and proper discharge of the duties
    of that position.
        No such law clerk, during his or her tenure in that capacity, shall
     practice law in any federal, state, or local court or undertake to
     perform legal services for any private client in return for remun­
    eration. This prohibition, however, shall not be construed to pre­
    clude the performance of routine legal work necessary to the man­
    agement of the personal affairs ofthe law clerk or a member of his or
    her family, so long as (1) such work is done without compensation; (2)
    it does not require the entry of an appearance in a court of the United
    States or any other act which would suggest that the position of law
    clerk is being misused, that preferential treatment is being sought by
    virtue of the holding of that position, or which would otherwise be
    inconsistent with the law clerk's primary responsibility to the em­
    ployingjudge and court; and (3) so long as such activity does not have
    actual conflict or appear in conflict with court duties or will not reflect
    discreditably on the court or create the appearance of impropriety.
       Such law clerk or secretary shall not be prohibited from performing
    and receiving compensation for such activities as teaching, lecturing,
    authoring or editing articles, publications and books. Nor shall such
    law clerk be prohibited from performing any activity related to the
    judicial process which tends toward the improvement of the law, the
    legal system, or the administration of justice; or which is unrelated to
    the judicial process. Regardless of any other provisions set out above,
    any such otherwise permitted activity may be undertaken only after
    notice to the employing judge and upon his or her finding that it poses
    no inconsistency with the function of law clerk or secretary including
    the responsibility to maintain the confidentiality of the judicial pro­
    cess and that it will not inhibit the devotion of the full business day to
    that position during the tenure of the incumbent in such capacity.
              Disposition of Federal Court Records
  The Archivist of the United States has advised that it has become
                                       6


almost impossible to apply the schedules for the disposition of court
records, adopted by the Conference in 1946, since these schedules are
incomplete and have resulted in overcrowding at record centers. The
Archivist suggested that a study be undertaken by the Conference with a
view to adopting meaningful record disposition schedules for the guid­
ance of the Archivist. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference authorized the establishment of an ad hoc Committee to
review the schedules and guidelines for the disposition of Federal court
records.
                      Civil Arbitration Pilot Program
   At the September 1977 session (Conf. Rept., p. 59) the Conference,
upon recommendation of the Budget Committee, authorized the Director
of the Administrative Office to expend appropriated funds for the conduct
of a pilot civil arbitration program consistent with guidelines and pro­
cedures to be established by the Committee on Court Administration in
consultation with the Department of Justice. The Committee has now
approved the rules adopted for a pilot program to be conducted in three
district courts and will report on the progress of the program at a later date.
In the light of this experience the Committee will also review the pro­
visions of H.R. 9778, 95th Congress, which would provide for arbi­
tration in civil cases on a nationwide basis.
                             Judicial Disability
   The Conference in March 1975 (Conf. Rept., p. 4) approved in
principle S. 4153, 93rd Congress, which would have provided for a
Council on Judicial Tenure within the judicial branch charged with the
duty of receiving and investigating complaints against justices or judges
of the United States and authorized to determine whether a complaint
alleges grounds which would warrant removal, censure, or involuntary
retirement.
   At the request of the Congress, the Conference considered three
currently pending proposals for establishing methods for evaluati.lg and
resolving complaints concerning judicial conduct and disability (H.R.
9042, H.R. 9451, and S. 1423, as amended in a "committee print" of
February 3, 1978), and approved the following statement of views for
transmission to the Congress:
      Among the proposals currently pending in Congress. establishing
    methods for dealing with judicial conduct and disability, the Judicial
    Conference approved in principle the objectives of S. 1423, as em­
    bodied in the "committee print" of February 3, 1978.
      While fully cognizant of the Constitutional powers vested in the
    Congress and the Conference's obligation to respect those powers, in
                                        7

    responding to Congressional requests for views on those bills, the
     Conference also believes it is obligated to express its genuine concern
    that enactment of any bill authorizing removal of a judge from office
    by a method other than impeachment will raise the fundamental
    question of the Act's constitutionali ty.
       Aside from the reservation expressed on the constitutionality of the
    removal feature, the Conference concludes that legislation placing
    authority in the Judicial Branch itself is both compatible with long­
    standing concepts of separation of powers and desirable in terms of
     maintaining the ultimate objective of an independent judiciary worthy
    of public confidence.
       We believe that S. 1423 should be altered in some respects. For
    example, we would recommend that subsection (c) (1) of proposed
    section 383 be amended to provide authority for a panel established by
    proposed section 382 to itself dismiss a complaint, in addition to
    recommending dismissal or further investigation. Further, we believe
    that S. 1423 should expressly reaffirm the authority of the judicial
    councils of the circuits to deal with inappropriate judicial conduct by
    formal or informal action, and suggest that this might be accom­
    plished by allowing the circuit a reasonable period of time to act with
    respect to any complaint before that complaint is referred to the circuit
    panel pursuant to section 382 of S. 1423. Other changes not incom­
    patible with the objectives of S. 1423 may be proposed.
       Because such legislation is a matter of great import to every federal
    judge, the Conference directs that:
       (I) 	Copies of the February 3, 1978 committee print and accom­
            panying report be transmitted to all judges with a request that
            their views be filed with the Administrative Office by April 10,
            1978; and
       (2) Those views be reviewed and an appropriate report prepared
            and transmitted to the Senate Judiciary Committee by May I,
            1978; and
       (3) The Committee on Court Administration is instructed to con­
            tinue its evaluation of the legislation, taking the responses of
            the judges into consideration, and to report its recom­
            mendations to the Congress as promptly as possible.
                            Diversity Jurisdiction
   H.R. %22, 95th Congress, would abolish general diversity of citizen­
ship jurisdiction in the district courts, retaining, however, jurisdiction in
suits to which aliens are parties; increase the jurisdictional amount in
controveresy requirement for alienage cases from $10,000 to $25,000;
and abolish the jurisdictional amount in controversy requirement in fed­
eral question cases, except where required by specific legislation. The bilI
would retain the federal interpleader statute, 28 U.S.C. 1335. The bill is
                                       8


consistent with the recommendation of the Conference in March and
September 1977 (Conf. Repts., pp. 8 and 52) favoring a complete
abolition of general diversity jurisdiction. Upon recommendation of the
Committee the Conference approved the bill, as drafted, and urged its
immediate passage.
   The Conference, however, reaffinned its previous recommendation
that appropriate legislation be enacted to permit diversity jurisdiction in
certain territorial district courts (Conf. Rept., Mar. 1977, p. 38).
                        Civil Rights Improvements Act
    S. 35, 95th Congress, as amended by Amendment No. 1426, is
 entitled the Civil Rights Improvement Act of 1977. The bill would
 change the result in certain Supreme Court cases interpreting 42 U .S.C.
 1983 including Monroe v. Pape, 365 U.S. 167 (1961), holding that the
 term "person" as used in the Civil Rights Act is limited to a natural
person, and Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693 (1976), holding that the right to
enjoy one's reputation is not a right secured under the due process clause
of Section 1 of the 14th Amendment to the Constitution. It would also
limit the power of federal courts to abstain in civil rights cases pending
authoritative determinations of state law, would compel injunctions
against certain on-going state actions, would require federal courts to
 refuse to give res judicata effect to certain state judgments between the
 same parties on the same issues, and would make state prosecutors liable
for unconstitutionally withholding or suppressing exculpatory evidence.
    It was the view of the Committee that the expansion and further
definition of civil rights is a matter of public policy for legislative
determination. At the same time the Committee pointed out that the
language used in the bill is so sweeping, and at times so vague, as to make
it difficult to ascertain its scope. Furthennore, the bill reaches into matters
which may adversely affect the delicate balance of federal/state relation­
ships and poses serious questions of statutory and constitutional inter­
pretation.
    The Committee accordingly recommended that the Judiciary express
no views on the extension of coverage under Sec. 1983 since this is a
policy matter for the detennination of the Congress, but that the Con­
ference indicate to Congress the serious problems it perceives with regard
to some of the substantive and procedural provisions of S. 35, as
amended, and recommend against enactment of the bill in its present
fonn. This recommendation was approved by the Conference.
                              Attorneys' Fees
   At the last session of the Conference the Committee was requested to
reconsider both H. R. 4814, 95th Congress, a bill to authorize an award of
                                      9


a reasonable attorney's fee and other costs to a prevailing defendant in a
civil action brought by the United States, and H.R. 3361, 95th Congress,
to amend the Administrative Procedure Act to permit awards of attor­
neys' fees and other expenses of litigation for public participation in
federal agency proceedings and the judicial review thereof. The Com­
mittee continues to be of the view that the question of awarding attorneys'
fees in agency and court proceedings is a matter of public policy for the
determination ofthe Congress, but pointed out that a piece-meal approach
to this issue is eroding the "prevailing American rule" , requiring parties
to civil litigation to pay their own attorneys' fees, without thorough study
of the potential consequences. The Committee counted 60 bills pending
before nine separate committees in the 95th Congress which would
authorize an award ofattorneys , fees to a prevailing party in either agency
or court proceedings. The Conference thereupon approved the Com­
mittee's suggestion that the Congress be requested to conduct general
hearings on the desirability of further modifying the' 'prevailing Ameri­
can rule" so that the views of the bar and the public generally can be
elicited.
   The Committee also noted that several bills, including H.R. 3361,
would provide standards for determining attorneys' fees which may
require courts to conduct separate fact-finding proceedings, thus pro­
longing litigation and adding expense. The Conference voted to recom­
mend to the Congress that, in the event separate bills are to be considered,
these provisions be modified so that the award of a reasonable attorney's
fee may be left to the sound discretion of the court.
                  Judicial Review of Veterans' Claims
   S. 364, 95th Congress, would provide for the judicial review of
administrative determinations made by the Veterans Administration,
would make the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act appli­
cable to these proceedings, and would authorize a reasonable fee for an
attorney who renders legal assistance to a veteran. The Conference noted
that the Board of Veterans' Appeals annually processes 32,000 separate
cases and that the Department of Justice estimates that the enactment of
the bill would result in approximately 4,600 new appeals to the district
courts each year. Upon the Committee's recommendation the Con­
ference reaffirmed the following resolution adopted by the Conference in
March 1963:
       The Conference was of the view that the question whether judicial
    review of the denial of veterans' claims should be accorded is a matter
    of public policy which is solely within the province of Congress to
    decide and that the judiciary should take no position thereon. If
                                        10

     Congress should decide to grant such review, the Conference be­
     lieved that review by a Court of Veterans Appeals, with local hear­
     ings by commissioners of the court, would provide a more suitable
     fonn of review than by the district courts, the courts of appeals or the
     Court of Claims.
               Appellate Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court
  The Committee's report recommending approval of S. 83, 95th Con­
gress, a bill to simplify the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the
United States by curtailing direct appeals from certain decisions of state
and federal courts was referred to the Supreme Court for its consideration.
                        National Court of Appeals
   H.R. 3969, 95th Congress, would create a National Court of Appeals
composed of a chief judge and six associate judges appointed by the
President which would have jurisdiction of cases referred to it by the
Supreme Court and cases transferred to it by other federal appellate
courts. This proposal has been widely discussed in legal circles and strong
opinions both in favor of and against the creation of such a court have been
expressed. Discussion of this proposal and alternative methods of dealing
with the ever-increasing caseload of the Supreme Court should, in the
view of the Committee, be encouraged. The Conference agreed and
urged the Congress to continue its study of appropriate methods to relieve
the Supreme Court of the overwhelming burdens of its present expanding
caseload but took no position on the merits of this particular proposal.
                         Transportation of Students
   The Conference voted to take no position on H.R. 8645, 95th Con­
gress, relating to the busing of students, since the bill embodies a matter
of public policy for the determination of the Congress.
                                 Class Actions
   H.R. 7683, 95th Congress, a bill dealing with jurisdiction and pro­
cedure in class actions, was withdrawn from consideration and returned to
the Committee for further study in the light of other action of the
Conference.
                 Collateral Estoppel in Antitrust Cases
   H.R. 7647, 95th Congress, would repeal Section 5(a) of the Clayton
Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(a). That section makes a final judgment or decree in
any civil or criminal proceeding brought by or on behalf of the United
States under the antitrust laws prima facie evidence against a defendant in
any subsequent action against such defendant if the decree or judgment
creates an estoppel between the parties. While the effect to be given to a
                                     II 


prior antitrust judgment in subsequent proceedings under the antitrust
laws is clearly a matter for Congressional determination, the Committee
had serious doubts that the bill will accomplish its intended purpose of
making things easier for private plaintiffs in treble damage actions. It was
of the view that a simple repeal Section 5(a) of the Clayton Act, as
proposed, may create uncertainty as to the effect of the repeal and that it
would be better to set forth the rules that are to be substituted. The
Conference agreed and directed that these views be communicated to the
Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.
                  Enforcement of State Custody Orders
   H.R. 9913, 95th Congress, would permit federal courts to enforce
state custody orders in situations in which persons are transported across
state lines. While the bill embodies a matter of policy for Congressional
determination, the Committee doubted that Section 2 of Article III of the
Constitution supports this type of grant of jurisdiction to a federal court.
Further, the bill is unclear on questions of venue, what law is to be
applied, and the nature of relief that may be granted. The Conference took
no position on the merits of the bill, but authorized the communication of
the Committee's reservations to the Congress.
                     Transfer of Cases to Other Courts
   The Conference approved a recommendation of the Committee that
provision be made by statute for the transfer of a case from one federal
court to another in the event the case was not properly filed in the first
court and authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to draft a
suitable bill for transmittal to the Congress.
                         Resignation of Judges
   The Conference voted to recommend passage of H.R. 8327, 95th
Congress, which would permit a judge who has reached 65 years of age to
resign after 15 years of service at the salary he received at the time of
resignation.
                             Territorial Judges
  The Conference voted to oppose enactment of H.R. 3566, a bill to
extend life tenure to territorial judges.
                        Appellate Court Revision
   H.R. 3971, 95th Congress, incorporates several recommendations of
the Hruska Commission on Revision of the Federal Court Appellate
System. After full discussion, the Conference voted to approve Sec. 103
of the bill which would permit a judge who has reached the age of 60 to
retire from regular active service if the number of years of his service
                                      12 


when added to his age equals 80. The other provisions of the bill were
returned to the Committee for further study in the light of the discussions
in the Conference.
                        Law Clerks and Secretaries
   The Committee recommended that those secretaries who have had
substantial service in the employment of federal judges should have some
further promotion potential than is now available. The Conference agreed
and voted to establish qualification standards for a secretary to a federal
judge at Grade JSP-11, with a requirement of eight years of experience as
a secretary to a federal judge of which seven years must be in Grade
JSP-IO. A change in the language of the Appropriations Act, both as to
grade and dollar limitation, is required before this authorization can
become effective. The Committee on the Budget was authorized to
submit language changes to the Congress.
   A proposal to authorize increased salary levels for career law clerks
was returned to the Committee for further study.
   Upon recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
requests for appropriations for 52 additional staff attorneys in the courts of
appeals and 37 additional secretaries with the understanding that the
Congress would be informed that the staff attorney positions would be
reduced upon authorization of a third law clerk for a circuit judge.

                  COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
   The report of the Committee on the Budget was submitted by Chief
Judge Robert E. Maxwell, a member of the Committee, in the absence of
the Chairman, Judge Carl Weinman.
   Judge Maxwell informed the Conference that hearings had recently
been conducted in the House of Representatives on the appropriation
requests for the fiscal year 1979. At that time a request for certain
additional deputy clerk positions in the district courts had been withdrawn
pending completion of a work measurement study being conducted by the
Administrative Office to determine the validity of the current staffing
formula. The Conference was also advised concerning the status of
judgeship bills pending in the Congress and the anticipated need of
additional supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year 1978 and an
amendment to the appropriation request for the fiscal year 1979.
   Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the Director of the
Administrative Office was authorized to submit to the Congress a request
for a supplemental appropriation for the fiscal year 1978 in the amount of
$7,897,000, as soon as the judgeship bill is signed into law, subject to any
adjustments he may consider necessary and appropriate. The Director
                                     13 


was also authorized to submit to the Congress an increase in the budget
request for the fiscal year 1979 in the amount of $28,998,000 for in­
creased costs under a new judgeship bill, subject to changes required as a
result of any other actions of the Conference at this session or for any
other reason the Director considers necessary and appropriate.
   The Conference further approved a request of the Committee that the
Director of the Administrative Offi ce be authorized to conduct a survey to
determine how courtroom deputies are being utilized in the respective
district courts and whether or not it is appropriate to include such deputies
in the application of case filing ratios for staffing purposes.

                        REVIEW COMMITTEE
   The report of the Review Committee was presented by the Chairman,
Judge Edward A. Tamm.
   Judge Tamm reviewed briefly the examination conducted by the
Committee of the Reports of Extra Judicial Income submitted by judges,
magistrates, bankruptcy judges, and other personnel required to file such
reports for the six-month period ending December 31, 1977. He indicated
that the Committee was continuing to experience difficulty in receiving
reports of extra judicial income in time for the Committee meeting. At
Judge Tamm's request the Conference changed the dates for filing semi­
annual reports of extra judicial income from January 15 and July 15 of
each year to January 10 and July 10, respectively.
   Judge Tamm stated that heretofore it has been the practice of the
Committee to identify some judges who have failed to file reports as
declining to do so "for reasons of conscience". The Committee, how­
ever, does not believe that this practice should be continued and accord­
ingly recommended, and the Conference concurred, that all charac­
terizations of non-filing judges be eliminated from the list to be included
in the Conference report pursuant to the Conference resolution adopted in
March 1971 (Conf. Rept., p. 24).
   Judge Tamm advised the Conference that 11 district judges, one circuit
judge and two bankruptcy judges have not filed reports of extra judicial
income for the period July 1 to December 31, 1977, as follows:
  ADJUDICA TORY OFFICIALS WHO HA VE NOT FILED AS OF
  MARCH 24 FOR THE PERIOD ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1978
                              Second Circuit
            Edmund L. Palmieri                  Edward Weinfeld
                Sf. District Judge                   District Judge
            Sylvester J. Ryan                   Inzer B. Wyatt
                Sr. District Judge                   Sr. District Judge
                                       14 


                                  Sixth Circuit
             Frank J. Battisti                    Frank Gray
                 District Judge                       Sr. District Judge
                                  Ninth Circuit
             Warren J. Ferguson                   Stanley A. Weigel
                  District Judge                       District Judge
             Harry Pregerson                      Warren C. Moore
                 District Judge                        Bankruptcy Judge
             Manuel L. Real
                 District Judge
                                  Tenth Circuit
             John C. Pickett                      Patricia A. Clark
                 Sr. Circuit Judge                     Bankruptcy Judge

                                  D.C. Circuit
             Matthew F. McGuire
                 Sr. District Judge

    The Conference previously approved the recommendation of the
 Committee that the officers of the Administrative Office of the United
 States Courts and the Federal Judicial Center, employed in grades GS-15
or above, be required to file reports with the Committee. Although these
reports are currently being filed, the review is inadequate because of the
lack of established standards regarding outside employment and non­
judicial affiliations. In an effort to insure that proper standards are
established and recognized by officers of these two judicial agencies, the
Committee recommended that the CODE OF JUDICIAL CONDUCT
FOR UNITED STATES JUDGES be made applicable to those
employees of the Administrative Office and the Federal Judicial Center
in salary grades GS-15 and above and that the Conference resolutions
defining applicable standards of conduct for judicial officers likewise be
made applicable to these non-adjudicatory officers. The Conference
approved the recommendation.
   At the suggestion of Judge Tamm the Conference requested the Advi­
sory Committee to consider issuing an appropriate advisory opinion
regarding the participation of a judicial officer in a case involving a
former law firm from which he is continuing to draw compensation for
services rendered prior to the time he became a judge.
                                     15 


JOINT COMMITTEE ON THE CODE OF JUDICIAL CONDUCT
  The report of the Joint Committee on the Code of Judicial Conduct,
chaired by Judges Edward A. Tamm and William B. Jones, was pre­
sented by Judge Tamm.
                          Familial Relationships
   The Conference in September 1977 (Conf. Repe, p. 60) amended
Canon 5D of the CODE OF JUDICIAL CONDUCT FOR UNITED
STATES JUDGES to redefine the term "member of his family", but
requested the Committee to give further consideration to "the question of
a grandfather clause as to judges in a fourth degree of familial relationship
whose status has previously been approved by his judicial council."
Upon further consideration the Committee concluded that the definition
of "member of his family", previously recommended by the Committee,
may have been too narrowly formulated. On recommendation of the
Committee the Conference again amended the definition of "member of
his family" in Canon 5D to read as follows:
      "Member of his family" means any relative of a judge by blood,
    adoption, or marriage, or any other person treated by a judge as a
    member of his family who resides, or has resided, in his household.
  The Conference also approved the addition of the following com­
mentary to Canon 5 D:
    Commentary
       Mere residence in the household of a judge is insufficient for a
    person to be considered a member of the judge's family for purposes
    of this canon. The person must not only be treated by a judge as a
    member of his family but must have resided in the judge's household
    for a sufficient length of time and under such circumstances as to
    make it apparent that it was his principal abode.
                        Judicial Disqualification
   Judge Tamm requested and the Conference authorized distribution of
the Federal Judicial Center staff paper entitled "Decisions Construing
the Judicial Disqualification Statute" to all judicial officers.

     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL ACTIVITIES
  The report of the Advisory Committee on Judicial Activities, chaired
by Judge William B. Jones, was made by Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin, a
member of the Committee.
  Judge Coffin reported that in the past six months sixteen new inquiries
were received by the Committee and that six new published opinions had
been issued, as follows:
                                        16 


     Advisory Opinion 50       Appearance of a judge before a legislative or
     executive body or official.
     Advisory Opinion51- Propriety ofa law clerk to a judge working on
     a case involving a party which is represented by his spouse's law firm.
     Avisory Opinion 52 - Participation of a judge in a case in which an
     open-member bar association is a party.
     Advisory Opinion 53      Participation of a judge's spouse in a political
     campaign.
     Advisory Opinion 54 - Propriety of a judge writing a letter of
     approbation or recommendation to an appointing officer.
     Advisory Opinion 55 - Judicial writings and publications.
   As of the date of its report the Committee had considered and acted
upon 165 formal docketed inquiries, not including approximately 35 mat­
ters acted upon prior to the installation of the docketing system. The
Committee again called attention to its practice of requiring a submission
in writing of all questions involving an interpretation of the CODE OF
JUDICIAL CONDUCT FOR UNITED STATES JUDGES.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE FEDERAL
             MAGISTRATES SYSTEM
 The report of the Committee on the Administration of the Federal
Magistrates System was presented by the Chairman, Judge Charles M.
Metzner.
                    Amendments to the Magistrates Act
   Judge Metzner advised the Conference that the Department of Justice
 sponsored legislation, S. 1613, to improve access to the federal courts by
enlarging the civil and criminal jurisdiction of United States magistrates,
had passed the Senate and was now under consideration in the House
Judiciary Committee. The bill would provide authority for the conduct of
civil jury and non-jury trials by full-time magistrates upon the mutual
consent of the parties, establish procedures for taking appeals from
decisions of magistrates, expand the trial jurisdiction of magistrates in
criminal cases to include all misdemeanors, and prescribe procedures for
the district courts to follow in selecting magistrates.
   At its last session the Conference endorsed most of the provisions of
the bill (Conf. Rept., p. 62), but reserved for further consideration the
provisions in S. 1613 for jury trials before magistrates and for direct
appeals to the courts of appeals. After further consideration of these
problems the Committee reported, and the Conference agreed, that there
is no policy or constitutional problem in delegating trial jurisdiction to
                                       17 


magistrates, provided that it is done with the consent of the parties. The
Conference further voted to recommend that the appeal in a trial con­
ducted by a magistrate should be to the district court and voted specifi­
cally to oppose any provision for the appeal of a case tried by a magistrate
directly to a court of appeals.
   The Committee was further authorized to suggest to the Congress that
the provision in the bill pertaining to court reporter services for magis­
trates involves a matter of administration which should remain flexible
and which should not be included in the legislation.
            Qualification Standards and Selection Procedures
   Last September the Committee submitted for consideration draft
qualification standards and selection procedures for magistrates and re­
quested that they be reviewed by the members of the Conference and
other judges prior to being submitted for final action at this session. Judge
Metzner informed the Conference that certain changes were made in the
draft as a result of suggestions made by Conference members. After full
discussion the Conference approved the proposals submitted by the
Committee as guidelines rather than requirements, since the authority of
the Conference to adopt binding standards is unclear. One amendment
was adopted making the procedure of a nominating commission optional
with each district court rather than mandatory.
                    Salaries of Full- Time Magistrates
   The salary plan adopted by the Conference and currently in effect fixes
the salaries of full-time magistrates at two levels - $42,500 and $46,500
per annum. The higher salary may be paid to a full-time magistrate
admitted to the bar of the highest court of a state for a period of at least ten
years, provided that the higher salary is recommended by a majority of the
judges of the district court concerned. As a result of the 1976 juris­
dictional amendments to the Federal Magistrates Act, Public Law 94­
577, the district courts are now selecting full-time magistrates with a view
to the performance of a full range of duties. The Committee accordingly
recommended and the Conference approved a revision in the salary plan
to increase the higher salary of $46,500 for full-time magistrates to
$48,500, subject to the availability of funds.
                    Changes in Magistrate Positions
   After consideration of the report of the Committee and the recom­
mendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district
courts and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Conference approved
the following changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time and
part-time magistrates. These changes are to be effective April 1, 1978,
                                        18 


unless otherwise indicated, subject to the availability of appropriated
funds. The salaries of full-time United States magistrates, other than the
position at Yosemite National Park, are to be determined in accordance
with the salary plan previously adopted by the Conference.

                               FIRST CIRCUIT
District of New Hampshire
  (I) 	Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Lancaster upon the
       expiration of the current term of the incumbent.
District of Rhode Island
  (1) 	 Authorized the clerk of court at Providence to perform the duties of a
       part-time magistrate, without additional compensation, effective upon the
       discontinuance of the part-time magistrate position currently authorized at
        Providence.
                             THIRD CIRCUIT
District of New Jersey
  (I) Authorized a third full-time magistrate position at Newark.
Eastern District of Pennsylvania
  (I) 	Continued each of the three full-time magistrate positions at Philadelphia,
        which are due to expire in 1979, for additional eight-year terms of office;
  (2) 	 Authorized a fifth full-time magistrate position at Philadelphia;
  (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Allentown and Reading
        for additional four-year terms of office;
  (4) Increased the salary ofthe part-time magistrate position at Allentown from
       $1 ,700 to $3,400 per annum;
  (5) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Reading from
       $850 to $4,250 per annum.
Middle District of Pennsylvania
  (I) 	Continued the part-time magistrate position at Stroudsburg for an addi­
       tional four-year term of office at the currently authorized salary of $1,700
       per annum.
District of the Virgin Islands
  (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Charlotte Amalie to a
       combination clerk of court-magistrate position, at an aggregate com­
       pensation equivalent to the salary authorized by the Conference for the
       clerk of a large district court.

                              FOURTH CIRCUIT
District of Maryland
  (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Hyattsville and the full-time
        magistrate position at Baltimore which is due to expire on December 21,
        1978, for additional eight-year terms of office;
                                        19 

   (2) Converted the part-time magistrate position at Bethesda to full-time status
         and changed the official location of the position to Baltimore;
   (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Hagerstown for an addi­
         tional four-year term of office;
   (4) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Hagerstown
        from $4,250 to $5,950 per annum;
   (5) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Salisbury for an additional
         four- year term of office at the currently authorized salary of $1,700 per
         annum.
District of South Carolina
  (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Greenville to full-time
        status;
  (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Greenville at the currently
        authorized salary of $9,350 per annum until the appointment of the
       full-time magistrate;
  (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Florence and Aiken for
       additional four-year terms of office at the currently authorized salaries of
       $3,400 and $850 per annum, respectively.
Eastern District of Virginia
  (1) 	 Authorized a third full-time magistrate position at Alexandria.
Western District of Virginia
 (1) Changed the official location 	of the full-time magistrate position at
      Abingdon to Charlottesville;
 (2) Changed the official location 	of the part-time magistrate position at
      Charlottesville to Abingdon.
Southern District of West Virginia
  (1) 	Continued the part-time magistrate position at Bluefield for an additional
       four-year term of office at the currently authorized salary of $1,700 per
       annum.

                               FIFTH CIRCUlT
Middle District of Florida
 (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Tampa for an additional
       eight-year term of office;
 (2) 	 Authorized a second full-time magistrate position at Tampa;
 (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Ft. Myers for an additional
      four-year term of office at the currently authorized salary of $850 per
      annum.
Southern District of Georgia
  (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Savannah, Brunswick and
       Swainsboro for additional four-year terms of office at the currently autho­
       rized salaries of $24,200, $5,950 and $3,400 per annum, respectively.
                                         20 


Western District of Louisiana
 (l) 	Increased the salary ofthe part-time magistrate position at Lafayette from
      $19,000 to $24,200 per annum.

                                SIXTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of Tennessee
  (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Chattanooga to full-time
        status;
  (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Chattanooga at the cur­
        rently authorized salary of $14,450 per annum until the appointment of the
        full-time magistrate;
  (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Greenville for an additional
        four-year term of office;
  (4) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Greenville from
        $2,550 to $4,250 per annum;
  (5) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Winchester for an addi­
        tional four- year term of office at the currently authorized salary of $1 ,700
        per annum;
  (6) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Newport upon the ex­
        piration 'of the current term of the incumbent.
Western District of Tennessee
 (I) 	Continued the full-time magistrate position at Memphis for an additional
       eight-year term of office;
 (2) 	 Authorized a second full-time magistrate position at Memphis;
 (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Jackson and Savannah at
       the currently authorized salaries of $3,400 and $850 per annum, respec­
       tively, until the appointment of the second full-time magistrate at Mem­
      phis.


                              SEVENTH CIRCUIT
Southern District of Indiana
  (1) 	 Authorized a third full-time magistrate position at Indianapolis.


                               EIGHTH CIRCUIT
Western District of Arkansas
 (1) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Harrison from
      $2,550 to $14,064 per annum, effective June I, for the remainder of the
      incumbent's current term of office;
 (2) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Texarkana from
      $1,700 to $13,918 per annum, effective June 1, for the remainder of the
      incumbent's current term of office.
                                        21 


Northern District of Iowa
  (I) 	Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Waterloo and Dubuque for
       additional four-year terms of office at the currently authorized salaries of
       $1,700 and $850 per annum, respectively.
Southern District of Iowa
  (I) 	Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Council Bluffs
       from $1 ,700 to $8,970 per annum, effective June 1, for the remainder of
       the incumbent's current term of office.

                              NINTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of California
  (1) 	Increased the salary of the full-time magistrate position at Yosemite
       National Park from $27,200 to $32,000 per annum, subject to approval of
       the higher salary by the Judicial Council of the Ninth Circuit.
Central District of California
  (1) 	 Continued the three full-time magistrate positions at Los Angeles which
        are due to expire on January 17, 1979, for additional eight-year terms of
        office;
  (2) 	 Authorized a sixth full-time magistrate position at Los Angeles;
  (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at San Bernardino, "Bar­
        stow or Victorville" and Lancaster for additional four-year terms of office
        at the currently authorized salaries of $19,000, $4,250 and $3,400 per
        annum, respectively;
  (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Santa Ana and Long
        Beach for additional four-year terms of office;
  (5) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Santa Ana from
        $12,750 to $14,450 per annum;
  (6) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Long Beach
        from $4,250 to $12,750 per annum.
Southern District of California
  (l) 	Continued the full-time magistrate position at San Diego, which is due to
       expire on September 14, 1978, for an additional eight-year term of office.
Western District of Washington
 (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Mt. Ranier National Park
       and Bellingham for additional four-year terms of office at the currently
       authorized salaries of $14,450 and $5,950 per annum, lespectively;
 (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Olympic National Park
       and Vancouver for additional four-year terms of office;
 (3) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Vancouver
       from $1,700 to $3,400 per annum;
 (4) 	 Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrale position at Olympic
       National Park from $12,750 to $9,350 per annum effective upon the new
       term of office.
                                       22 

                              TENTH CIRCUIT
District of Kansas
  (l) 	Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Hays.
District of Wyoming
  (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Cheyenne to a combination
        clerk of court-magistrate position, at an aggregate compensation fixed at
        the salary authorized for the clerk of a large district court.

                        Investigations of Misconduct
   The Committee was requested at the last session of the Conference
(ConL Repe, p. 64) to study what investigative services might be
available to a district court when charges of misconduct are leveled at a
magistrate. The Conference again considered this matter and authorized
the Committee to give it further consideration.

  AD HOC COMMITTEE ON BANKRUPTCY LEGISLATION
   The report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Bankruptcy Legislation was
presented by its Chairman, Judge Wesley E. Brown.
   The Conference, by mail vote, had previously approved the November
 15, 1977- report of the Committee recommending that certain amend­
ments to Titles II and IV of S. 2266, 95th Congress, be approved in
principle by the Conference; that the Committee be authorized, consistent
with its report, to make other suggestions to the Congress of any needed
changes in the bill; and that the Committee be authorized to release its
report to the Congress. The report was subsequently submitted at hear­
ings held before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Improvements in
Judicial Machinery on November 28 and to the House Judiciary Com­
mittee at hearings held on December 13.
   Judge Brown informed the Conference that H.R. 8200, 95th Con­
gress, passed the House of Representatives on February 1, 1978 in
substantially the same form in which it was reported by the House
Judiciary Committee. The bill contains provisions, previously opposed
by the Conference, to create a separate court system for bankruptcy cases
under Article III of the Constitution and a separate office of United States
Trustee under the Attorney GeneraL The Conference thereupon reaf­
firmed its disapproval of H.R. 8200 and concurred in the following
resolution recommended by the Committee:
      Resolved, That the Judicial Conference of the United States hereby
    reaffirms its endorsement of S. 2266 as the bill which best achieves
    the objective of constructively reforming the substantive law of bank­
    ruptcy and a desirable structural arrangement for the resolution of
                                         23

     bankruptcy disputes. Accordingly, the Judicial Conference recom­
     mends the enactment of S. 2266.
        The Conference adheres, however, to its prior suggestion for the
     creation of a bankruptcy administrator, believing that the creation of
     such an office will accomplish a desirable separation of judicial and
     administrative bankruptcy functions.


       COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRA nON OF THE 

                BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM 

  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy
System was presented by the Chairman, Judge Edward Weinfeld.
                 Salaries and Arrangements for Referees
   The Conference considered the Committee report, together with the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the Jurli­
cial Councils ofthe Circuits, and the District Courts concerned, andtook
the following action relating to referee positions and changes in salaries
and arrangements. The Conference directed that, subject to the avail­
ability of funds, these actions become effective on April 1, 1978, unless
otherwise indicated.

                   DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
District of Columbia
  (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position in the City of
        Washington to become vacant by expiration of term on June 30, 1978, for
       a term of six years, effective July 1,1978, at the authorized salary, the
       regular place of office, territory and place of holding court to remain as at
       present.

                                FIRST CIRCUIT
District of Massachusetts
  (I) 	Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Boston to
        become vacant by expiration of term on July 14, 1978, for a term of six
        years, effective July 15, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the regular
        place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
       present;
  (2) 	 Authorized the continu'ance of the full-time referee position at Boston to
        become vacant by expiration of term on August 21, 1978, for a term of six
        years, effective August 22, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the regular
       place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
       present.
                                         24 

                              SECOND CIRCUIT 

District of Connecticut
  (I) 	Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Hartford to
       become vacant by expiration of term on October 31, 1978, for a term ofsix
       years, effective November I, 1978, at the authorized salary, the regular
       place of office, territory and place of holding court to remain as at present.
Eastern District of New York
  (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Westbury
       to become vacant by expiration of term on June 30, 1978, for a term of six
       years, effective July I, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the regular
       place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
       present.
Western District of New York
 (1) 	 Designated Watkins Glen as an additional place of holding court for the
      full-time referees in the district in addition to Buffalo, Rochester, Batavia,
      Jamestown, Niagara Falls, Dunkirk, and Olean;
 (2) 	 Discontinued Elmira as a place of holding bankruptcy court iri this district
      effective when the arrangements for accommodations of the bankruptcy
      court at Watkins Glen are completed.

                                THIRD CIRCUIT
Eastern District of Pennsylvania
  (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee positIOn at
       Philadelphia to become vacant by expiration of term on June 28,1978, for
       a term of six years, effective June 29, 1978, at the authorized salary, with
       the regular place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain
       as at present.
Western District of Pennsylvania
 (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Pittsburgh
       to become vacant by expiration of term on June 30, 1978, for a term of six
       years, effective July 1, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the regular
       place of office and places of holding court to remain as at present;
 (2) 	 Eliminated the specification of territories for the referees at Pittsburgh and
       Erie and established concurrent district-wide jurisdiction for the referees
      of the district.
District of the Virgin Islands
  (1) 	 Designated Christiansted as the headquarters for the part-time
       referee/magistrate position established for this district.

                              FOURTH CIRCUIT
 Eastern District of North Carolina
   (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Wilson to
        become vacant by expiration of term on October31, 1978, for a term of six
                                         25

         years, effective November 1, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the
        regular place of office and territory to remain as at present;
   (2) 	 Continued Raleigh, New Bern, and Fayetteville as places of holding
         bankruptcy court, but discontinued Washington as a designated place of
        holding court for the district.

                                FIFTH CIRCUIT
Northern District of Texas
  (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Dallas to
        become vacant by expiration of term on June 30, 1978, for a term of six
        years, effective July I, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the regular
        place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
       present;
  (2) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Fort Worth
        to become vacant by expiration of term on August 31, 1978, for a term of
       six years, effective September I, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the
       regular place of office, territory, and places of holding court to remain as
       at present.

                               SIXTH CIRCUIT
Western District of Michigan
 (1) 	 Designated Traverse City, in addition to Grand Rapids, Lansing, and
       Kalamazoo, as a place of holding court for the full-time referee in the
      district.
Northern District of Ohio
  (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Canton to
        become vacant by expiration of term on June 4, 1978, for a term of six
       years, effective June 5, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the regular
       place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
       present.
Southern District of Ohio
  (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Columbus
        to become vacant by expiration of term on June 30, 1978, for a term of six
        years, effective July 1, 1978. at the authorized salary, with the regular
        place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
        present.
Middle District of Tennessee
 (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Nashville
       to become vacant by expiration of term on August 20. 1978, for a term of
      six years, effective August 21, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the
      regular place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
      present;
                                          26 

   (2) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Nashville
         to become vacant by expiration of term on August 31, 1978, for a term of
         six years, effective September 1, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the
         regular place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
        present.

                              SEVENTH CIRCUIT
Northern District of Illinois
  (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Chicago to
        become vacant by expiration of term on July 4, 1978, for a term of six
        years, effective July 5, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the regular
       place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
       present;
  (2) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Chicago to
       become vacant by expiration of term on July 31, 1978, for a term of six
       years, effective August 1, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the regular
       place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
       present;
 (3) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Chicago to
       become vacant by expiration of term on October 13, 1978, for a term of six
       years, effective October 14, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the
       regular place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
       present.
Eastern District of Wisconsin
  (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Milwaukee
        to become vacant by expiration of term on October 31, 1978, for a term of
       six years, effective November 1, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the
        regular place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
       present.

                               EIGHTH CIRCUIT
District of Minnesota
  (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at
       Minneapolis to become vacant by expiration of term on June 30, 1978, for
       a term of six years, effective July I, 1978, at the authorized salary, with
       the regular place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain
       as at present.
Eastern District of Missouri
  (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at S1. Louis to
        become vacant by expiration of term on August31, 1978, fora term of six
        years, effective September I, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the
        regular place of office, territory and places of holding court to remain as at
       present.
                                        27
                                NINTH CIRCUIT
Southern District of California
  (I) 	Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at San Diego
       to become vacant by expiration of term on May 7, 1978, for a term of six
       years, effective May 8, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the regular
       place of office, territory, and places of holding court to remain as at
       present.
District of Hawaii
  (1) 	 Extended the jurisdiction of the referee in Hawaii, who now has
       jurisdiction in Hawaii and Guam, to include the territory of the district
       court in the Northern Mariana Islands with headquarters on the island of
       Saipan.

                               TENTH CIRCUIT
District of New Mexico
  (1) 	 Authorized an additional part-time referee position at a salary of $24,200
        per year, for a term of six years;
  (2) Designated Albuquerque as the headquarters for the part-time position;
  (3) 	 Established concurrent district-wide jurisdiction for the part-time position
        with the existing full-time positions for the district with designated places
       of holding bankruptcy court at Albuquerque, Santa Fe, Roswell, Silver
        City, Las Vegas, Clovis, and Las Cruces.
Northern District of Oklahoma
  (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at Tulsa to
       become vacant by expiration of term on October 26, 1978, for a term of six
       years, effective October 27, 1978, at the authorized salary, with the
       regular place of office, territory, and places ofholding court to remain as
       at present.


      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 

                PROBATION SYSTEM 

  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the Probation
System was presented by the Chairman, Judge Albert C. Wollenberg.
                         Sentencing Institutes
   The Committee submitted to the Conference a plan for an Institute on
Sentencing for the Ninth Circuit to be held in September 1978 at Santa
Barbara, California, with one day at the Federal Correctional Institution
at Lompoc, California, and a plan for a Joint Institute on Sentencing for
the Eighth and Tenth Judicial Circuits to be held in October 1978 at
Denver, Colorado, with one day at the Federal Correctional Institution at
                                     28 

Englewood, Colorado. The Conference approved the time, place,
participants and agenda for these two institutes.
   The Conference was also informed that the Committee is working with
representatives of the First, Fourth, and the District of Columbia Circuits
to formulate plans for a Joint Sentencing Institute to be held in Raleigh,
North Carolina, during 1979.
                         Criminal Code Revision
  Judge Wollenberg informed the Conference that the Committee fully
anticipates an opportunity to testify on the bill to revise the Criminal
Code, now pending before the Subcommittee on Criminal Justice of the
House Judiciary Committee. Draft testimony on proposals relating to
pretrial diversion, pretrial services agencies, the proposed Sentencing
Commission, and discretion to set aside conviction submitted by the
Committee was approved by the Conference with one modification.


      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 

                  CRIMINAL LAW 

  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the Criminal
Law was presented by the Chairman, Judge Alfonso 1. Zirpoli.
                         Criminal Code Revision
   S. 1437, 95th Congress, to revise the Federal Criminal Code, has been
passed by the Senate and is currently being considered by the Sub­
committee on Criminal Justice of the Judiciary Committee of the House
of Representatives. Judge Zirpoli informed the Conference that in pass­
ing S. 1437 the Senate has removed many of the objections to previous
bills that were voiced by the Conference, but that the bill still fails to
incorporate many of the prior recommendations of the Conference. In
addition to recommending reaffirmation of previous Conference action,
the Committee submitted for approval a redraft of Chapter 58 of the bill to
place the authority for the creation of a Sentencing Commission in the
Judicial Conference. The Conference concurred in these recom­
mendations.
              Domestic Surveillance of Foreign Intelligence
   Judge Zirpoli brought to the attention of the Conference four bills
introduced in the House of Representatives relating to domestic surveil­
lance of foreign intelligence. One of these bills, H. R. 7308, is identical to
S. 1556 which was reported by the Senate Judiciary Committee last
November. Judge Zirpoli informed the Conference that his Committee
had not specifically addressed the question of the desirability or necessity
                                     29 

under the Fourth Amendment of securing prior judicial authorization of
electronic surveillance to obtain foreign intelligence. The Committee did
recommend that if Congress decides that judicial authorization for such
surveillance is necessary that such authority be vested in a special court to
be created in the manner set forth in the Committee's suggested redraft of
Section 2523 of H.R. 7308 and H.R. 5794. The recommendation was
approved.
                  Amendments to the Speedy Trial Act
   The Conference reaffirmed its recommendations of September 1977
(Conf. Rept., p. 53) for amendments to the Speedy Trial Act, drafted by
an ad hoc Committee of the Committee on Court Administration, and
authorized the Director of the Administrative Office again to transmit
them to the Congress.
                      Access to Financial Records
   H.R. 214and H.R. 1742, 95th Congress, would restrict official access
to a person's financial records in banks and other financial institutions;
records of individual calls, messages and telegrams in the possession of a
common carrier; and credit information assembled by a consumer report­
ing agency. Because these bills would result in a clear impediment to law
enforcement and would delegate to the courts investigative and law
enforcement functions, the Conference agreed with the Committee that
the proposed legislation should be disapproved.

COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION OF THE JURY SYSTEM
  Chief Judge C. Clyde Atkins, Chairman of the Committee on the
Operation of the Jury System, presented the report of the Committee.
                        Bilingual Courts Legislation
   Judge Atkins advised the Conference that the United States Senate had
recently passed S. 1315, a bilI relating to the use of interpreters in the
United States district courts. Sections 3 and 4 of the bill would authorize
the use of the Spanish language in proceedings and pleadings in the
United States District Court ·for the District of Puerto Rico, at the
direction of the court. Previously the Conference had endorsed a draft bill
which did not include a provision for the use of the Spanish language in
the district court in Puerto Rico (Conf. Rept., Sept. 1977, p. 50). Judge
Atkins pointed out that the bill would appear to require maintenance of
two separate master and qualified jury wheels in Puerto Rico, one for
English-speaking jurors and one for Spanish-speaking jurors, and that the
bill might compel the selection of an exclusively English-speaking jury or
Spanish-speaking jury for each trial in order to facilitate communication
                                      30 

amongjurors. The Conference agreed that these were further reasons why
the Congress should study carefully any proposals relating to the use of
the Spanish language in the courts of Puerto Rico.
                  Reports on the Composition of Juries
   Judge Atkins informed the Conference that the information on the
number of prospective jurors summoned, and the number actually appear­
ing, required to be reported by the individual district courts has not proved
useful and has imposed additional burdens on clerks' offices. The Con­
ference agreed and directed that the clerks of the district courts no longer
be required to submit annual reports on the aggregate number of persons
summoned for jury service.
   The Conference also agreed to exempt the United States District Court
for the District of Puerto Rico from the requirement of reporting the
number of jurors serving by race, since there is no reliable available
information from the Bureau of the Census, or elsewhere, as to the
composition of race and sex of the adult population of Puerto Rico on
which comparisons can be made.
                          Juror Orientation Film
   The Conference was informed that the juror orientation film, produced
by Wayne State University Center for the Administration of Justice and
made available to the district courts by the Administrative Office, has
been requested for use at only 30 locations. At the Committee's request,
the Conference endorsed the use of the film by the district courts and
urged that it be shown at the circuit conferences to be conducted this year,
and at forthcoming seminars for judges, clerks of court, and other court
personnel, to be held at the Federal Judicial Center.


       COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
   The written report.of the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments was
submitted by its Chairman, Judge George L. Hart, Jr. The report indi­
cated that during the period from August 16, 1977 to February 15, 1978,
the Chief Justice had approved 57 assignments to be undertaken by 45
judges. Of this number four were senior circuit judges, three were active
circuit judges, six were district judges in active status, and 25 were senior
district judges. Eleven assignments involved two active judges and two
senior judges of the Court of Claims, two active judges of the Customs
Court, and one active judge of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals.
   Four senior circuit j,-\dges, 11 senior district judges and two senior
judges from the Court of Claims undertook 19 of the 28 assignments to
the courts of appeals. Three active circuit judges, one active district judge,
                                      31 


one active judge of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, and two
active judges of the Court of Claims participated in the other nine
assignments to the courts of appeals. Of the 29 assignments in the district
courts, 17 senior district judges participated in 20 assignments and the
remaining nine assignments were carried out by five active district judges
and two active judges of the Customs Court.

                    COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT
                    THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT
  The report of the Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act
was presented by Judge Thomas J. MacBride, a member of the Com­
mittee, in the absence of the Chairman, Judge Dudley B. BonsaI.
                        Appointments and Payments
   The Conference authorized the Director of the Administrative Office
to distribute copies of the report on appointments and payments under the
 Criminal Justice Act for the fiscal year 1977 to all chief judges, all federal
defender organizations and to others who may request copies. The report
indicates that Congress initially appropriated $21,000,000 for imple­
mentation of the Act during the year and later made available supple­
mental funds to cover the total estimated obligations of $21,893,000.
   Approximately 46,500 persons were represented under the Criminal
Justice Act in 1977, an increase of about three percent over the fiscal year
 1976. Federal Public Defender offices which represented 12,959 per­
sons, and Community Defender Offices, which represented 6,586 per­
sons, collectively accounted for more than 40 percent of the total repre­
sentations under the Act.
   The average cost per case, including appeal, for the twenty-six Federal
Public Defender Offices is estimated to be $453, after deducting non­
recurring costs, and the average cost for the eight Community Defender
Organizations is estimated to be $409 per case. The cost for private
panel attorney representation is estimated to be $424 per case.
        Grant Requests Community Defender Organizations
  The Conference considered grant requests from seven Communi ty
Defender Organizations and approved sustaining grants for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 1979, as follows:
  Federal Defenders of San Diego, Inc ..................... $ 740,000
  Federal Defender Program, Inc. Atlanta, Ga.............. .          237,622
  Federal Defender Program, Inc. Chicago, Ill. . ........... .        375,000
  Legal Aid and Defender Assn., Detroit, Mich ............ .          600,000
                                                    32
  Federal Defender Services Unit of
    the Legal Aid Society of New York                                                           1,000,000
  Federal Defender Services, Inc. Portland, Oreg. ...........                                    210,000
  Federal Court Division of the Defender Association
    of Philadelphia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    379.572
   The Conference also approved a supplemental grant of $27,000 to
Federal Defender Services, Inc., Portland, Oregon, for the fiscal year
1978.
   The Committee also reported that the Director of the Administrative
Office, under authority previously granted by the Conference (Conf.
Rept., March 1977, p. 34), had approved additional grants aggregating
$23,554 for Community Defender Organizations for the fiscal year 1977
to cover cost-of-living and other unforeseen expenses.
          Budget Requests - Federal Public Defender Offices
   The Northern and the Middle Districts of Florida have established
Federal Public Defender Offices, raising the total number of such offices
to 28. The Criminal Justice Act, as amended, requires each Federal
Public Defender Organization, established pursuant to subsection (h) (2)
(A), to submit a proposed budget to be approved by the Conference in
accordance with Section 605 of Title 28, United States Code. The
Conference approved the amounts as shown below:

                                 FY 1978                                         FY 1979
                           Staff                                           Staff
                    Attys. [nv. Secys.            Amount            Attys. 1nv. Secys.            Amount

Florida (N)           2                2        $172,511               2                2       $130,506
Florida(M)            5        2       3         273,135               5       2        3        293,523
                             Guidelines
   The Conference approved the following addition to paragraph 2.03 of
the Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act.
     Counsel should be provided to a person as soon as feasible after he is
     taken into custody, when he appears before a committing magistrate,
     when he is formally charged, or when he otherwise becomes entitled
     to counsel under the Act, whichever occurs earliest.


       COMMITTEE ON THE RULES OF PRACTICE AND
                     PROCEDURE
  Judge Roszel C. Thomsen, Chainnan, presented the report of the
Committee on the Rules of Practice and Procedure.
                                    33

                              Civil Rules
   Judge Thomsen advised the Conference that the Advisory Committee
on Civil Rules on a number of occasions has considered at length
proposals that Rule 23 be amended in various ways, including an amend­
ment requiring the members of a proposed class to opt in, rather than
permit them to opt out. The 25 circuit judges and 150 district judges who
replied to a questionnaire from the Committee favored such a proposal by
a vote of two to one, but the Advisory Committee, which is about evenly
divided, has been unwilling to adopt the proposed change.
   At its meeting in December the Advisory Committee discussed a
proposed bill with representatives of the Department of Justice which
would amend Rule 23(b)(3) to authorize the Government to bring a class
action in certain situations, particularly where there are many people with
small claims. As a result of this discussion the Advisory Committee
decided to recommend to the Standing Committee that the Judicial
Conference be requested to approve in principle the revision of Rule
23(b)(3), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, by direct legislative enact­
ment, rather than by the rule-making authority, reserving for further
consideration the merits of any specific statutory proposals and the
appropriateness of dealing with specific aspects of such proposals through
the rule-making authority. At the suggestion of Judge Thomsen this
recommendation was approved by the Conference.
                          Criminal Rules
   The Standing Committee is now circulating to the bench and bar
proposed changes in the Rules of Criminal Procedure which have been
recommended by the Advisory Committee to meet certain p~oblems
which have arisen as the result of certain court decisions.
                         Appellate Rules
   The Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules has completed its study
of proposed amendments and the final proposals will be considered by the
Standing Committee this summer and submitted to the Conference in
September.

           COMMITTEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES
   Judge Richard H. Chambers, Chairman of the Committee on Pacific
Territories, reported on problems currently under consideration by the
Committee with respect to the courts in the Pacific Territories.
   He indicated that because of the recent decision of the Supreme Court
in the case of Chase Manhattan Bank v. South Acres Development
Company, 434 U.S., interested parties may seek to invest the district
                                     34 


court in Guam with diversity of citizenship jurisdiction. Legislation will
also be introduced in the current session of Congress to grant the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit appellate jurisdiction to
review decisions of the High Court of American Samoa. If decisions of
this court are to be reviewed, the Committee hopes that the legislation will
provide for review by writ of certiorari only.
   Judge Chambers reported that the district court for the Northern Mari­
ana Islands became the 95th district court on January 9, 1978. The
legislation establishing this court embodied all the recommendations
approved by the Conference, except the recommendation that review by
the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit of decisions of the appellate
division should be by writ of certiorari. The Committee is considering
this problem and several other problems arising out of the application of
the Juror Service and Selection Act to this court.

COMMITTEE ON THE BICENTENNIAL OF INDEPENDENCE
            AND THE CONSTITUTION
   The report of the Committee on the Bicentennial of Independence and
the Constitution was submitted by its Chairman, Judge Clement F.
Haynsworth, Jr.
   The report indicates that the films produced under the auspices of the
Committee have been shown three times on Public Broadcasting Service
television and have been viewed by students in 211 schools and that 136
requests for the free loan of the films by various sources have been met.
Although it is difficult to estimate the number of people who have seen
one or more of these films, conservatively the figure would exceed
500,000, and it was probably in the millions.
   Judge Haynsworth also informed the Conference that the BIO­
GRAPHICAL DIRECTORY OF JUDGES is nearing completion and
will soon be published; that the manuscript on the "popular book" has
been submitted to a number of educators around the country for comment
with the initial responses confirming a strong interest in and a wide-spread
need for such a book; and that the Fourth Circuit has joined the Third,
Fifth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Circuits in the preparation of
the histories of their circuits.

COMMITTEE TO CONSIDER STANDARDS FOR ADMISSION
      TO PRACTICE IN THE FEDERAL COURTS
  Judge Edward J. Devitt, Chairman of the Committee to Consider
Standards for Admission to Practice in the Federai Courts, submitted a
progress report on the work of the Committee.
                                        35 


   Judge Devitt stated that since its appointment in September 1976 the
Committee has met five times, has conducted public hearings in four
major cities and with the assistance of the Federal Judicial Center has
completed an extensive research project to determine the nature of the
need for improvement in Federal trial advocacy. The Committee will
meet again in April to formulate tentative recommendations to present to
the Conference in September 1978. Following that report the Committee
again plans to hold public hearings to extend to all interested members of
the legal profession an opportunity to express their views on the proposed
recommendations. A final report will be made to the Conference in
September 1979. The Committee also plans to send to each district judge
a copy of the survey conducted by the Federal Judicial Center.

                      MEMORIAL RESOLUTION
  During a ceremony honoring the memory of the former Director of the
Administrative Office, Rowland F. Kirks, which was also attended by
members of his family as well as friends and associates, the Conference
adopted the following resolution:
        The Judicial Conference of the United States takes note with deep
     sorrow the death of Rowland Falconer Kirks, Director of the Admin­
     istrative Office of the United States Courts, on November 2, 1977.
        Soldier, scholar. teacher, lawyer and public servant, Rowland
     Kirks served his country with distinction in many capacities. A
    distinguished graduate of the Virginia Military Institute, he was an
    officer in World War II serving in the European Theatre of Oper­
     ations. On his appointment as Director he retired from the military
                                                          a
    reserve in 1970 with the rank of Major General. As law school dean
    and college president, as an Assistant Attorney General ofthe United
    States, and as a lawyer in private practice, he served the highest ideals
    of the legal profession.
        Rowland Kirks' career in public service was crowned in 1970 when
    he was asked to be the Director of the Administrative Office of the
     United States Courts. For more than seven years he contributed
    directly to the work of the Judicial Conference of the United States.
    Innovatively he instituted in the Federal courts a program of modern­
    ization, and gave a new vigor and spirit of achievement to the entire
    judicial system.
        Rowland Kirks' life was one of challenge. hard work, and the
    pursuit of excellence in all that he did. In mourning his passing the
    Conference authorizes that this resolution, which has been joined in
    by the staff of the Administrative Office, be placed in the permanent
    record~ of the Judicial Conference and that a copy be sent to his
    beloved wife and children.
                                   36
                             ELECTIONS
   The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 621(a)(2), elected United
States District Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., of the District of Colum­
bia as a member of the Board of the Federal Judicial Center for a term of
three years, succeeding District Judge Marvin E. Frankel whose term of
office expires on March 28, 1978.
   The Conference also elected United States Circuit Judge George E.
MacKinnon of the District of Columbia for an additional term as a
member of the Board of Certification for Circuit Executives, as required
by 28 U.S.c. 322(0. His current term expires on July 1, 1978.

                STATUS OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS
   The Conference authorized the appointment of an ad hoc Committee to
consider the status of subordinate judicial officers serving in the United
States distri ct courts.

PRETERMISSION OF TERMS OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS
   The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the pre­
termission of terms of the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit at
Asheville, North Carolina, during the calendar year 1978 and approved
the pretermission of terms of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
at Kansas City, Missouri, and Omaha, Nebraska, during the calendar
year 1978.

             RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION
   The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters con­
sidered at this session where necessary for legislative or administrative
action.




                                              WARREN E. BURGER
                                        Chief Justice of the United States

March 24, 1978
                                               INDEX

                                                                                                     Page
Access to Financial Records ..................................... 29 

Additional personnel ........................................... 12 

Administrative Office of the United States Courts: 

   Report of the Director ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 

Admission to Practice in the Federal Courts, Standards to Consider: 

   Committee on, Report of .................................... 34 

   Report on the Quality of Advocacy in the Federal Courts ......... 35 

Advocacy in the Federal Courts, Report on the Quality of ............ 35 

Amendments to the Magistrates Act ............................... 16 

Antitrust Cases, Collateral Estoppel in . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10 

Appellate Court Revision ....................................... II 

Appellate Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10 

Appellate Rules ............................................... 33 

Appointments and Payments under the Criminal Justice Act ........... 31 

Appropriations: 

     For Fiscal Year 1979 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   12 

     Supplemental for 1978 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..    12 

     Amendment to Appropriation for 1979 ............... .' .........                                    13 

Attorneys' Fees ...............................................                                           8

Bankruptcy Legislation: 

    Committee on, Report of .................................... 22 

    Disapproved H.R. 8200 ..................................... 22 

    Resolution Reaffirming Endorsement of S. 2266 ................ 22 

Bankruptcy Statistics ........................................... 3 

Bankruptcy System: 

    Committee on, Report of .................................... 23 

    Salaries and Arrangements for Referees ........................ 23 

Bicentennial of Independence and the Constitution: 

    Biographical Directory of Judges .............................                                       34 

    Committee on, Report of ....................................                                         34 

    Films ....................................................                                           34 

    Popular Book .............................................                                           34 


                                                   37 

                                                      38 

                                                                                                          Page
Bilingual Courts Legislation ..................................... 29 

Biographical Directory of Judges ................................. 34 

Budget: 

    Amendment to Appropriation Request for 1979 .................                                           12 

    Appropriations for Fiscal 1979 ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..               12 

    Committee on, Report of ....................................                                            12 

    Supplemental Appropriations for 1978 .........................                                          12 

Circuit Executive: 

     Election of Honorable George E. MacKinnon as Member of 

       the Board of Certification for .............................. 36 

Circuit Histories ............................................... 34 

Civil Arbitration Pilot Program. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6 

Civil Rights Improvements Act. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8 

Civil Rules ................................................... 33 

Class Actions ......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10 

Collateral Estoppel in Antitrust Cases ............................. 10 

Community Defender Organizations -                       Grant Requests ............... 31 

Conference: 

    Call of. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 

    Release of Action .......................................... 36 

Court Administration: 

    Appellate Court Revision ...................................                                            II 

    Appellate Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court ....................                                        10 

    Attorneys' Fees ...........................................                                              8

    Civil Arbitration Pilot Program. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..              6

    Civil Rights Improvements Act. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                8

    Class Actions .............................................                                             10 

    Collateral Estoppel in Antitrust Cases .........................                                        to 

    Committee on, Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..           4

    Depositions in Foreign Countries .............................                                           4

    Disposition of Federal Court Records .........................                                           5

    Diversity Jurisdiction ..................................... "                                           7

    Enforcement of State Custody Orders .........................                                           II 

    Judicial Disability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..    6

    Judicial Review of Veterans' Claims ..........................                                           9

    Law Clerks and Secretaries ..................................                                           12 

    National Court of Appeals ...................................                                           to 

    Outside Employment of Law Clerks and Secretaries .............                                           5

    Resignation of Judges ......................................                                            11 

    Territorial Judges ..........................................                                           11 

    Transfer of Cases to Other Courts ............................                                          11 

                                                    39 

Court Administration (continued)                                                                  Page 

    Tninsportation of Students . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 

    Uniform Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement .................... 4 

Courts:
    Courts of Appeals: 

         Additional Secretaries ..................................                                        12 

         Additional Staff Attorneys ...............................                                       12 

         Court Revision ........................................                                          11 

         National ..............................................                                          10 

         Pretermission of Terms of Court ..........................                                       36 

         Statistics .............................................                                          2

    District Courts: 

         Courtroom Deputies ....................................                                          13 

         Statistics .............................................                                          3

         Status of Subordinate Judicial Officers .....................                                    36 

Criminal Code: 

    Revision of ............................................... 28 

Criminal Justice Act: 

    Appointments and Payments .................................                                           31 

    Budget Requests - Federal Public Defender Offices .............                                       32 

    Commi ttee on, Report of ....................................                                         31 

    Grant Requests - Community Defender Organizations ...........                                         31 

    Guidelines ................................................                                           32 

Criminal Law: 

    Access to Financial Records .................................                                        29 

    Amendments to the Speedy Trial Act ..........................                                        29 

    Committee on, Report of ....................................                                         28 

    Criminal Code Revision ....................................                                          28 

    Domestic Surveillance of Foreign Intelligence ...................                                    28. 

Criminal Rules ................................................ 33 

Depositions in Foreign Countries ................................. 4 

Diversity Jurisdiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7 

Elections: 

     Honorable Aubrey E. Robinson as a Member of the 

       Board of the Federal Judicial Center ........................ 36 

     Honorable George E. MacKinnon as a Member of the Board 

       of Certification for Circuit Executives ....................... 36 

Familial Relationships .......................................... 15 

Federal Court Records, Disposition of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 

Federal Judicial Center: 

    Election of the Honorable Aubrey E. RobInson as 

       a Member of the Board ................................... 36 

                                                       40 


Federal Judicial Center (continued)                            Page 

    Library Study ............................................. 4 

    Report of ................................................ 4 

Federal Public Defenders: 

    Budget Requests ........................................... 32 

    Statistics ................................................. 3 

Foreign Intelligence, Domestic Surveillance ........................ 28 

Guidelines to the Criminal Justice Act ............................. 32 

Intercircuit Assignments: 

     Committee on, Report of .................................... 30 

Judges: 

    Biographical Directory ......................................                                                 34 

     Disqualification of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..         15 

     Resignation of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..      II 

     Territorial ................................................                                                 II 

Judicial Activities: 

     Commi ttee on, Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 15 

     Opinions of ............................................... 16 

Judicial Conduct: 

     Joint Committee on, Report of ............................... 15 

     Judicial Disqualification ..................................... 15 

     Familial Relationships ...................................... 15 

Judicial Disability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6 

Judicial Disqualification ......................................... 15 

Judicial Officers, Status of ...................................... 36 

Juries, Report on the Composition of .............................. 30 

Jurisdiction: 

     Appellate, of the Supreme Court .............................                                                10 

     Class Actions .............................................                                                  10 

     Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..    7

     Guam, District Court of ....................................                                                 33 

     High Court of American Samoa ..............................                                                  34 

     Magistrates ...............................................                                                  16 

Juror Orientation Film .......................................... 30 

Jury System: 

     Bilingual Courts Legislation .................................                                               29 

     Committee on, Report of ....................................                                                 29 

     Juror Orientation Film ......................................                                                30 

     Reports on the Composition of Juries ..........................                                              30 

Kirks, Rowland F., Memorial Resolution on the Death of, Director 

  of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts ............ 35 

                                                   41 

                                                                                                       Page
Law Clerks: 

    Increase in Salary Level ..................................... 12 

     Outside Emplovment of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 

Legislation:
    S. 	35      Civii Rights Improvements Act of 1977, Disapproved .... 8 

    S. 83, to Simplify the Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United 

        States .................................................. 10 

    S. 364, to Provide for the Judicial Review of Administrative Deter­

        minations Made by the Veterans Administration, etc. . . . . . . . . . .. 9 

    S. 1315, Relating to the Use oflnterpreters in the United States District 

        Courts     Referred to the Committee for Further Study ......... 29 

    S. 1437, to Revise the Federal Criminal Code .................. 28 

    S. 1613, to Imrove Access to the Federal Courts by Enlarging the Civil 

        and Criminal Jurisdiction of the United States Magistrates ....... 16 

    S. 2266, to Establish a Uniform Law on the Subject of Bankruptcies 22 

    H.R. 214 and H.R. 1742, Would Restrict Official Access to a Person's 

        Financial Institutions      Disapproved ........................ 29 

    H.R. 	3361, to Amend the Administrative Procedure Act to Permit 

        Awards of Attorneys Fees and Other Expenses of Litigation, etc. 8 

    H. R. 3566, to Extend Life Tenure to Territorial Judges - Disapproved II 

    H.R. 3969, to Create a National Court of Appeals ............... IO 

    H.R. 4814, to Award Reasonable Attorneys' Fees and Other Costs toa 

        Prevailing Defendant in a Civil Action Brought by the United States 8 

    H.R. 3971, Revision of the Federal Court Appellate System ...... II 

    H.R. 	7308, Relating to Domestic Surveillance of Foreign Intelligence 

       - Approved Redraft of Section 2523 ....................... 28 

    H.R. 7647, Would Repeal Section 5(a) of the Clayton Act ........ 10 

    H.R. 7683, Dealing with Jurisdiction and Procedure in Class Actions IO
    H.R. 8200, to Establish a Uniform Law on the Subject of Bankruptcies 

       - Disapproved .......................................... 22 

    H.R. 	8327, to Permit a Judge Who Has Reached 65 Years of Age to 

       Resign After IS Years of Service ........................... II 

    H.R. 8645, Relating to the Bussing of Students ................. 10 

    H.R. 9622, to Abolish Joint Diversity Jurisdiction in the District Courts 

      - Approved . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7 

    H.R. 9778, to Provide for Arbitration in Civil Cases on a Nationwide 

       Basis .................. " .............................. 6 

    H.R. 9913, to Permit Federal Courts to Enforce State Custody Orders in 

       Situations in Which Persons Are Transported Across State Lines . 11 

    H.R. 	9042, H.R. 9451 and S. 1423, Proposals for Establishing 

       Methods for Evaluating and Resolving Complaints Concerning Judi­

       cial Conduct and Disability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6 

    Recommend Draft Bill to Transfer a Case from One Federal Court to 

       Another in the Event the Case Was Not Properly Filed in the First 

       Court ...................... " .. " ...................... II 

    Reaffirmed Recommendations for Amendments to the Speedy Trial Act 29 

                                                  42 

Magistrates:                                                         Page 

    Changes in Positions ....................................... 17 

   Investigations of Misconduct ................................. 22 

    Qualification Standards and Selection Procedures ................ 17 

   Salaries .................................................. 17 

Magistrates System: 

    Amendments to the Magistrates Act . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            16 

    Changes in Magistrates Positions ............................                                      17 

    Committee on, Report of ....................................                                       16 

   Investigations of Misconduct .................................                                      22 

   Qualification Standards and Selection Procedures ................                                   17 

   Salaries of Full- Time Magistrates .............................                                    17 

Memorial Resolution in Memory of Rowland F. Kirks, Former Director of 

 the Administrative Office of the United States Courts .............. 35 

Misconduct, Investigations of .................................... 22 

Movies Project ................................................ 34 

National Court of Appeals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 

Opinions of Advisory Committee on Judicial Activities ............... 16 

Pacific Territories: 

     Committee on, Report of .................................... 33 

Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, Judicial: 

    Report ................................................... 4 

    Statistics ................................................. 4 

Pretermission of Terms of Courts of Appeals ....................... 36 

Probation System:
     Committee on, Report of .................................... 27 

     Criminal Code Revision ..................................... 28 

     Sentencing Institutes ........................................ 27 

Referees: 

     Salaries and Arrangements ................................... 23 

Resolutions: 

     Memorial for Rowland F. Kirks .............................. 35 

     Reaffirming Endorsement of S. 2266 .......................... 22 

Review Committee: 

     Committee on, Report of .................................... 13 

     Official Officers Who Have Not Reported ...................... 13 

Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement, Uniform. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 

Rules of Practice and Procedure: 

     Appellate Rules ........................................... 33 

     Civil Rules ............................................... 33 

     Committee on, Report of .................................... 32 

     Criminal Rules ............................................ 33 

                                                         43 


Salaries:                                                                                                      Page 

     Law Clerks .......................................... " ... 12 

     Magistrates ............................................... 17 

     Secretaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 

Secretaries: 

     Increase in Grade Level ..................................... 12 

     Outside Employment ....................................... 5 

Sentencing Institutes ............................................ 27 

Speedy Trial Act, Amendments to ................................ 29 

State Custody Orders, Enforcement of ............................. II 

Statistics: 

      Bankruptcy ...............................................                                                   3

      Courts of Appeals. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..          2

      District Courts ............................................                                                 3

      Federal Public Defender Offices. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                    3

      Magistrates ...............................................                                                  3

      Multidistrict Litigation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..          4

      Probation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   3

Status of Judicial Officers ....................................... 36 

Territorial Judges .............................................. II 

Transportation of Students ....................................... to 

Transfer of Cases to Other Courts ................................ 11 

Veterans' Claims, Judicial Review of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9 

