          REPORT 

           of the 

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

       UNITED STATES 





       September 21, 22, 1978




         Washington, D.C.
               1978
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 



        William E. Foley 

            Director 

          REPORT 

           of the
    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

       UNITED STATES 



       September 21, 22, 1978




         Washington, D.C.
              1978
        mE .JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF mE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331

§ 331. JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

   The Olief Justice of the United States shaJl summon annually the chief judge of each judicial
circuit, the chief judge of the Court of Claims, the chief judge of the Court of Customs and Patent
Appeals, and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at slIl;h time and place in the
United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such conference which shall be known as the
Judicial Conference of the United States. Special sessions of the conference may be called by the
Chief Justice at such times and places as he may designate.
   The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by ihe circuit and
district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held pursuant to section 333
of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for three successive years, except that in the
year following the enactment of this amended section the judges in the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth
circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for one year, the judges in the second, fifth, and eighth
circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for two years and the judges in the third, sixth, ninth, and
District of Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for three years.
   If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit is unable to
attend, the Chief Justice may summon any other circuit or district judge from such circuit. If the chief
judge of the Court of Claims or the chief judge of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals is unable
to attend, the Chief Justice may summon an associate judge of such court. Every judge summoned
shall attend and, unJess excused by the Chief Justice, shall remain throughout the sessions of the
conference and advise as to the needs of his circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of which
the administration of justice in the courts of the United States may be improved.
  The conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the courts of the
United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from circuits or districts where
necessary, and shall submit suggestions to the various courts, in the interest of uniformity and
expedition of business.
   The conference shall also carry on a continuous study of the operation and effect of the general
rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as prescribed by the Supreme Court for the
other courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes in and additions to those rules as the
conference may deem desirable to promote simplicity in procedure, fairness in administration, the
just determination of Ii tigation, and the elimination of unjustifiable expense and delay shall be
recommended by the conference from time to time to the Supreme Court for its consideration and
adoption, modification or rejection, in accordance with law.
   The Attorney General shall. upon request of the Chief Justice, report to such conference on matters
relating to the business of the several courts of the United States, with particular reference to cases to
which the United States is a party.
  The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings of the Judicilll
Conference and its recommendations for legislation.




                                                    (iv)
                                  (vi)
Advisory Committee on Judicial Activities ......................... 55 

Committee on the Administration of the Federal 

   Magistrates System........................................... 56 

     Changes in Magistrate Positions .............................. 56 

     Selection of Magistrates..................................... 69 

     Rules of Procedure for Magistrates ........................... 70 

Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy 

  System ..................................................... 70 

     Salaries and Arrangements for Referees ....................... 70 

Committee on the Administration of the Probation 

  System ..................................................... 73 

     Sentencing Institutes ....................................... 73 

     Reimbursement of Attorneys Fees as a Condition 

       of Probation ............................................ 73 

     Probation Information System ............................... 74 

     Narcotic Aftercare Program ................................. 74 

Committee on the Administration of the Criminal Law .............. 74 

     Criminal Code Revision ..................................... 74 

     Amendments to the Speedy Trial Act of 1974 .................. 75 

     Domestic Surveillance of Foreign Intelligence .................. 76 

Committee on the Operation of the Jury System .................... 77 

     Model Grand Jury Charge ................................... 77 

     Trial Standards and Peremptory Challenges ................... 77 

     Voter Registration Lists ..................................... 78 

     Six-Person Civil Juries ...................................... 78 

     Juror Utilization ........................................... 78 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments ........................... 78 

Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act .................. 79 

     Appointments and Payments ....... : ........................ 79 

     Budget Requests-Federal Public Defender .................... 80 

     New Defender Offices-Budget Requests ................•..... 82 

     Amendments to Criminal Justice Act Guidelines ................ 83 

     Administration ............................................ 83 

Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure ...•................. 83 

     Appellate Rules ............................................ 84 

     Criminal Rules ............................................ 84 

     Civil Rules ................................................ 84 

     Participation of Bench and Bar in Rule-Making ................ 85 

Committee on Pacific Territories ................................. 85 

Committee on the Bicentennial of Independence and 

  the Constitution ............................................. 85 

Committee to Consider Standards for Admission to 

  Practice in the Federal Courts ................................. 86 

Pretermission of Terms of the Courts of Appeals ........•........... 87 

Release of Conference Action .................................... 87 

                        TABLE OF CONTENTS 


                  REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

                  OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 

                     OF THE UNITED STATES 


                         September 21-22, 1978 


                                                                      Page
Call of the Conference .......................................... 39 

Report of the Director of the Administrative Office 

  of the United States Courts .................................... 40 

     Annual Report ............................................ 41 

Report of the Federal Judicial Center ............................. 42 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation .......................... 42 

Committee on Court Administration .............................. 42 

     Uniform Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement .................... 42 

     Attendance at Circuit Conferences ............................ 43 

     Staff and Quarters for Senior Judges .......................... 43 

     Membership of District Judges on Circuit Councils .............. 44 

     Civil Arbitration Pilot Program .............................. 44 

     Public Use of Federally Owned Buildings ...................... 44 

     Places of Holding Court..................................... 45 

     National Art Bank Act of 1978 ............................... 46 

     Appellate Review of Decisions of the Court of 

       Military Appeals ............... '.' ........................ 46 

     Air Disaster Litigation ...................................... 47 

     Opinion Publication Plans .................................. 47 

     Salaries of Clerks of Court .................................. 47 

     Career Law Clerks ......................................... 49 

     Certificates of Official Court Reporters ........................ 49 

     Judicial Tenure ............................................ 49 

     Contract Disputes .......................................... 50 

Committee on the Budget ....................................... 51 

     Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1979 .......................... 51 

     Budget Estimates for Fiscal Year 1980 ........................ 51 

Review Committee ..••......................................... 52 

Joint Committee on the Code of Judicial Conduct ................... 54 

     Financial Activity ...........•.............................. 54 

     Codes of Conduct for Clerks of Court and 

        Probation Officers ....................................... 54 

     Filing Financial Reports .................................... 55 

     Naturalization Proceedings .............•..............•..... 55 

                                  (v)
           Report of the Proceedings 

                 of the Judicial 

         Conference of the United States 


                       September 21.22, 1978


    The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on
September 21, 1978, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice
of the United States issued under 28 U .S.C. 331. The follow­
ing members of the Conference were present:

District of Columbia Circuit:
     Chief Judge J. Skelly Wright
     Chief Judge William B. Bryant, District of Columbia
First Circuit:
     Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin
     Chief Judge Andrew A. Caffrey, District of Massachusetts
Second Circuit:
    Chief Judge Irving R. Kaufman
    Chief Judge T. Emmet Oarie, District of Connecticut
Third Circuit:
    Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz
    Judge Alfred L. Luongo, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
Fourth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Oement F. Haynsworth, Jr.
    Judge Charles E. Simons, Jr., District of South Carolina
Fifth Circuit:
     Chief Judge John R. Brown
     Chief Judge William C. Keady, Northern District of Mississippi
Sixth Circuit:
     Chief Judge Harry Phillips
     Chief Judge Charles M. Allen, Western District of Kentucky
Seventh Circuit:
    Chief Judge Thomas E. Fairchild 

    Chief Judge James B. Parsons, Northern District of Illinois 


                                   39
                                  40 

Eighth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Floyd R Gibson
    Chief Judge James H. Meredith, Eastern District of Missouri
Ninth Circuit:
    Chief Judge James R Browning 

    Judge Morell E. Sharp, Western District of Washington 

Tenth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Oliver Seth 

    Judge Wesley E. Brown, District of Kansas 

Court oj Claims:
    Chief Judge Daniel M. Friedman
Court oj Customs and Patent Appeals:
    Chief Judge Howard T. Markey
   Circuit Judges Edward A. Tamm and Gerald B. Tjoflat;
Senior District Judges Dudley B. BonsaI and Roszel C.
Thomsen; and District Judges C. Clyde Atkins, Edward J.
Devitt, Alexander Harvey II, Elmo B. Hunter, James Law­
rence King, Robert E. Maxwell, John Lewis Smith, Jr., and
Edward Weinfeld attended all or some of the sessions of
the Conference.
   The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable
Griffin B. Bell, accompanied by the Solicitor General, Hon­
orable Wade H. McCree, attended the morning session of the
first day of the Conference and addressed the Conference
briefly on matters of mutual interest to the Department of
Justice and the Conference.
   William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office of
the United States Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
Director; James E. Macklin, Jr., Assistant Director; and
Mark W. Cannon, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Jus­
tice, attended all sessions of the Conference.
   The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo Levin,
reported on the activities of the Center since the last session
of the Conference.

               REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR 

            OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

            OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 

  The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, Mr. William E. Foley, submitted to the Con­
                             41 

ference the annual report of the Director for the year ended
June 30, 1978, and two separate reports on the operation of
Titles I and II of the Speedy Trial Act of 1974. The Confer­
ence authorized the Director to release the annual report
immediately in preliminary form and to revise and supple­
ment the final printed edition. The Conference also authorized
the Director to transmit to Congress the reports on the Speedy
Trial Act of 1974.

                       ANNUAL REPORT

   For the first time since 1958 fewer cases were filed in the
United States courts of appeals than in the previous year.
There were 18,918 appeals filed, a decrease of a little more
than one percent from the 19,188 appeals filed during the
previous year. The courts of appeals disposed of 17,714 ap­
peals during the year compared to 17,784 in 1977. On June
30, 1978 there were 16,648 appeals pending on the dockets of
the courts of appeals, eight percent more than a year ago.
   Civil cases filed in the United States district courts in the
year ended June 30, 1978, were 138,770, a six percent in­
crease over the 130,567 civil actions filed in 1977. Civil cases
filed by the United States government increased from 16,320
in 1977 to 22,534 in 1978, an increase of 38 percent. During
the year the district courts terminated 125,914 civil cases, al­
most eight percent more than the number closed in 1977, but
12,856 cases less than the number filed. As a result, civil
cases pending on the dockets of the district courts on June
30, 1978, climbed to a record high of 166,462.
   Criminal cases filed in the United States district courts
continued to decline in 1978 to 35,983, a decrease of 13.5
percent compared to the 41,589 cases filed in 1977. The
number of criminal cases terminated also declined to 37,286,
but were 1,303 more than the number filed. Criminal cases
pending on June 30, 1978, were 15,847, which is 7.6 percent
less than the number pending a year earlier.
   For the third straight year bankruptcy cases filed in the
United States district courts also declined to 202,951, a de­
crease of 11,448 cases from the number filed in 1977, or 5.3
percent. Since 1975 bankruptcy cases filed in the district
courts have declined more than 20 percent. During the year
                              42 

216,733 bankruptcy cases were closed and the number pend­
ing on June 30, 1978, fell to a three-year low of 240,147.


    REPORT OF THE FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER
  The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo Levin,
reported to the Conference that the Center is currently
planning seminars for new district judges to be appointed
under the pending omnibus judgeship bill. Work at the
Center is also progressing on the COURTRAN system of
record-keeping in the district courts and on various other in­
novative and developmental projects designed to assist the
courts through the use of computers.


 JUDICIAL PANEL ON MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION
   The report submitted on behalf of the Judicial Panel on
Nlultidistrict Litigation indicated that during the year ending
June 30, 1978, the Panel had acted upon 777 civil actions
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407 and that 696 civil actions were
transferred for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceed­
ings in accordance with the statute. Transfer of 81 actions
was denied by the Panel. Since the establishment of the
Panel in 1968 over 6,500 civil actions have been consolidated
for pretrial proceedings and over 4,000 of these cases have
been remanded to the originating district for trial or have
been terminated by settlement or dismissal in the transferee
courts.


     COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
   Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration, presented the report of the Commit­
tee.

       UNIFORM RULES OF DISCIPLINARY ENFORCEMENT

   The Committee submitted fpr the consideration of the Con­
ference Model Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement drafted by
                                    43 

a Committee of the American Bar Association and approved
by the House of Delegates last February. The Model Rules
would require a small contribution from each attorney prac­
ticing in a federal court to be paid into a trust fund to be
administered on a local basis. The Administrative Office of
the United States Courts would be the central depository of
these funds, as trustee for the courts which adopt the Model
Rules. The funds received would be for the sole use of the ad­
ministration of the program and would not be monies received
for the use of the United States. Upon the recommendation
of the Committee the Conference after full discussion ap­
proved the Model Rules and authorized their distribution to
all circuit and district courts with a recommendation that
they be adopted by these courts on an optional basis.

             ATTENDANCE AT CIRCUIT CONFERENCES

  In recent years the Administrative Office has been receiving
an increasing number of requests for the authorization of ex­
penses of travel and subsistence for court personnel, other
than judges, to attend the judicial conferences of the circuits.
Recognizing the need for policy guidance in this area, the
Conference adopted the following resolution:
       Resolved, That the Administrative Office of the United
    States Courts is authorized to pay for the travel and subsistance ex­
    penses to circuit conferences of those magistrates, bankruptcy
    referees and federal defenders who are specifically authorized
    to attend such conferences by the chief judge of the circuit,
    so certified by him in writing to the Administrative Office,
    with the proviso that only a representative group may be so
    authorized to attend.

           STAFF AND QUARTERS FOR SENIOR JUDGES

   In September 1950, Conf.Rept.p. 31, the Conference di­
rected that retired judges be permitted to retain their per­
sonnel and be furnished with suitable quarters, provided that
they continue to perform substantial judicial work, and that
the question as. to whether or not the services performed are
substantial will be a matter of determination by the particular
circuit judicial councils involved. The Conference resolution,
however, did not extend to senior· judges of the Court of
                                   44 

Claims and the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals. In
order to establish uniformity, the Conference, upon recom­
mendation of the Committee, amended the last sentence of
the resolution to read:
     Whereupon, the Conference directed that the Director permit
     retired judges to retain their personnel and be furnished with
     suitable quarters, provided that they continue to perform sub­
     stantial judicial work, that the question as to whether or not
     the services performed are substantial will be a matter for
     determination by the particular circuit judicial councils in­
     volved, with respect to senior judges of the circuit and district
     courts, and by the Chief Judges of the Court of Claims and
     the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, with respect to the
     senior judges of those courts.


   MEMBERSHIP OF DISTRICT JUDGES ON CIRCUIT COUNCILS

   Judge Hunter advised the Conference that the Fifth Circuit
District Judges Association had recommended that the
statute, 28 V.S.C. 332, be amended to authorize representa­
tion by district judges on the judicial councils of the circuits.
He informed the Conference that a number of studies are
now being undertaken with regard to circuit judicial councils
and that the Subcommittee on Judicial Improvements has
been asked to review these studies and to report its recom­
mendations to the next meeting .of the full Committee.

               CIVIL ARBITRATION PILOT PROGRAM

  Judge Hunter advised the Conference of the current status
of the civil arbitration pilot program and that the Committee
would continue to monitor its progress and provide a further
report to the Conference at a later date.

         PUBLIC   V SE OF FEDERALLY OWNED           BUILDINGS

   The General Services Administration has publicly an­
nounced a program to make public buildings available for
the use of the public. The announcement has generated some
concern about the use of court facilities by the public. No ac­
tion was taken by the Conference at this time.
                                   45
                     PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

   Judge Hunter reported that the Subcommittee on Judicial
Improvements had reviewed the existing Judicial Conference
policy governing the evaluation of legislative proposals either
to authorize locations at statutorily designated places of hold­
ing court, or to implement changes in the organizational or
geographical configuration of individual judicial districts.
The existing procedure does not require consideration of the
views of the Department of Justice and United States Attor­
neys and implies that, at the district level, only the opinion of the
chief judge rather than the aggregate opinion of the court is
controlling. Recognizing the need for clarification of policy,
the Committee recommended and the Conference approved
the following resolution:
        The Iudicial Conference reaffirms its previously stated belief
     that changes in the geographical configuration and organiza­
     tion of existing federal judicial districts should be enacted only
     after a showing of strong and compelling need. Therefore,
     whenever Congress requests the Conference's views on bills to:
        1. 	 create new judicial districts;
        2. consolidate existing judicial districts within a state;
        3. 	 create new divisions within an existing judicial district;
        4. 	 abolish divisions within an existing judicial district;
        5. transfer counties from an existing division or district to
             another division or district;
        6. 	 authorize a location or community, including facilities,
             as a statutorily designated place at which "court shall be
             held" under Chapter 5 of title 28, United States Code;
             or
        7. 	 waive the provisions of Section 142 of title 28, United
             States Code, respecting the furnishing of accommodations
             at places of holding court-the Director of the Adminis­
             trative Office shall transmit each such bill to both the
             chief judge of each affected district and the chief judge
             of the circuit in which each such district is located, re­
             questing that the district court and the judicial council
             for the circuit evaluate the merits of the proposal and
             formulate an opinion of approval or disapproval to be
             reviewed by the Conference's Court Administration Com­
             mittee in recommending action by the Conference. In
             each district court and circuit council evaluation, the
             views of affected U.S. Attorneys' offices, as representa­
                                 46
         tive of the views of the Department of Justice, shall be
         considered in addition to caseload, judicial administra­
         tion, geographical, and community-convenience factors.
         Only when a proposal has been approved both by the
         district courts affected and by the appropriate circuit
         judicial council, and only after both have filed a brief
         report with the Court Administration Committee sum­
         marizing the reasons for their approval shall that Com­
         mittee review the proposal and recommend action to the
         Judicial Conference.

              NATIONAL ART BANK ACT OF          1978
   The Chairman of the Senate Committee on Human Re­
sources had requested the views of the Conference on S. 2645,
95th Congress, a bill to establish a National Art Bank. The
bill would create an administrative unit within the National
Endowment of the Arts to make available government-owned
works of art for public display in all federal facilities, in­
cluding United States courthouses. The loaned works of art
displayed in federal courthouses would be placed under the
"supervisory authority" of the Director of the Administra­
tive Office. Similar supervisory authority is conferred upon
the Administrator of the General Services Administration
and the Architect of the Capitol. The Conference agreed with
the recommendation of the Committee that the Director of
the Administrative Office not be included in the bill in light
of the reality that almost all administration of the physical
facilities for the courts is today vested in the General Services
Administration. To place the Director of the Administrative
Office, and by virtue of his delegation of authority, the clerks
of courts, in a position of responsibility for such works of art
would constitute an undesirable and unnecessary bifurcation
of supervisory authority.

      ApPELLATE REVIEW OF DECISION OF THE COURT OF 

                   MILITARY ApPEALS 


  A proposed amendment to S. 1353, 95th Congress, would
provide for the review of decisions of the Court of Military
Appeals by writ of certiorari to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. In commenting to the
                             47 

Congress regarding this proposal, Chief Judge Haynsworth of
the Fourth Circuit perceived two major problems, an increase
in the caseload of approximatel:y 40 cases per judge on his
court and a procedure which would result in decisions of na­
tional impact being made by a court of appeals encompassing
only five states. The Conference endorsed the views expressed
and recommended disapproval of the amendment.

                  AIR DISASTER LITIGATION

   The Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee had re­
quested the views of the judiciary on H.R. 10917, 95th
Congress, a bill to create a uniform body of law governing
liability for "injury to or loss of property or any personal
injury or death" arising out of aviation activity and to im­
prove procedures for litigating controversies arising out of
airline disasters. After full discussion the Conference returned
the bill to the Committee for further study in the light of dis­
cussions in the Conference.

                 OPINION PUBLICATION PLANS

   Judge Hunter submitted to the Conference a separate
report of the Subcommittee on Jurisdiction on opinion pub­
lication plans which sets forth the historical development of
these plans, the activities of the Subcommittee, the sig­
nificant features of the present circuit plans, the impact of
opinion publication plans on the workloads of the courts of
appeals, and the criticism the plans have generated. Judge
Hunter reported that the Subcommittee has been relieved
from any further formal task of continual review of the
operation of circuit opinion publication plans, but has been
authorized to encourage further and continued academic in­
quiry and debate and to report from time to time on new
developments.

               SALARIES OF CLERKS OF COURT

  Judge Hunter reported that the Committee had considered
a proposal that clerks of court be placed in graded positions
rather than in ungraded positions as they have been since
                                   48 

1957. At the present time the salaries of clerks of court are
governed by the salary schedule developed in 1971 by a spe­
cial committee under the chairmanship of Judge William
Hastie. Judge Hunter pointed out that a return to a graded
schedule would enable clerks of court to receive compara­
bility adjustments, as do their subordinates and the vast
majority of judicial employees. Upon recommendation of
the Committee the Conference adopted the following resolu­
tion:
       The Conference notes that the assumptions upon which the
    Hastie Schedule was based have been rendered obsolete by
    acts of Congress and other circumstances. It is, t!terefore,
    resolved that it be abolished, along with the 90 percent rule
    for chief deputies.
      It is further resolved that the salaries of clerks of court, the
    only remaining salary fixed by the abolished Hastie Schedule,
    be returned to the graded JSP Schedule with the salaries fixed
    as follows: Clerk, Court of Appeals, Customs Court, Court of
    Claims, and Court of Customs and Patent Appeals-JSP-16;
    Clerk, large district court-JSP-16; Clerk, medium district
    court-JSP-1S; Clerk, small district court and territorial court­
    JSP-14.
       It should be noted that, for its own reasons, any court may
    pay a clerk the appropriate salary of a lower grade, as deter­
    mined by the rules followed by the Administrative Office in
    fixing proper grades and steps in the Judiciary Salary Plan.
       For salary-conversion purposes of the individuals occupying
    clerk of court positions at the time of conversion, they shall be
    placed in that step of the grade which first meets the current
    ungraded salary. All future pay actions for clerks of court
    shall be effected in accordance with the laws, rules, and
    regulations governing pay in the JSP Schedule, as derived
    from the General Schedule (GS), with the proviso that neither
    the salary of any clerk of court nor of any subordinate per­
    sonnel in the clerk's office shall exceed the salary of Executive
    Level V or the maximum salary permitted for Circuit Execu­
    tives, less $2,000, whichever is smaller.
       The above grades are fixed with the understanding that the
    clerk of court is delegated the authority for and charged with
    the responsibility for performing those functions contained in
    the Missions and Functions Statement approved by the Con­
    ference at its September 1977 session, Conf. Rept., p. 48.
                                    49
                         CAREER LAW CLERKS

   The Conference in March 1978, Conf. Rept., p. 12, returned
to the Committee for further study a proposal to authorize in­
creased salary levels for career law clerks. Judge Hunter in­
formed the Conference that during the last 10 years the num­
ber of career law clerks in the federal judiciary has declined
from 36 to 24 and that additional salary levels for these
career positions should be provided. The Conference there­
upon adopted the following resolution:
        It is the sense of the Conference that the best interests of the
     judiciary are better served through continuation of the tradi­
     tional practice of appointing recent graduates as law clerks for
     periods of one to two years. In recognition of unusual situa­
     tions, the Conference approves changes in the qualification
     standards for law clerks on the personal staffs of federal
     judges to provide that, after five years of experience as a law
     clerk to a federal judge, a grade JSP-12 law clerk may be con­
     sidered qualified for promotion to grade JSP-13 upon recom­
     mendation by the judge, subject to the availability of funds.

         CERTIFICATES OF OFFICIAL COURT REPORTERS

   Since September 1961 court reporters have been required
to certify quarterly that they have filed transcripts or elec­
tronic sound recordings of all arraignments, pleas and sen­
tences in criminal cases as required by the statute, 28 U.S.c.
753(b). The Committee reported that the court reporters are
currently complying with the statute and that the submission
of the quarterly certificate no longer serves a useful purpose.
The Conference thereupon voted to eliminate the requiremept
of submitting this certificate (A.O. Form 188).

                           JUDICIAL TENURE

   It was brought to the attention of the Conference that the
provisions of the proposed Judicial Tenure Act, S. 1423, 95th
Congress, vary from those of S. 4153, 93rd Congress, which
the Conference approved in principle at its session in March
1975, Conf. Rept., p. 5. The Conference at that time sug­
ge·sted that "neither a justice nor a judge of the United States
may be removed from office except by the impeachment
                                  SO 

process." To clarify its position with respect to S. 1423 the
Conference adopted the following resolution:
        The action of the Iudicial Conference concerning S. 1423,
     95th Congress, has been widely misunderstood and the Con­
     ference hereby reaffirms "its genuine concern that enactment
     of any bill authorizing removal of a judge from office by a
     method other than impeachment will raise the fundamental
     question of the Act's constitutionality."
      The Conference expresses its disapproval of any legislative
    provision which purports to delegate to any other tribunal or
    entity the constitutional power of Congress to remove a federal
    judge from office.

The Conference also adopted the following resolution:
       The Conference directs its Committee on Court Administra­
    tion to conduct a study to determine whether legislation is
    necessary to clarify the power of the judicial councils of the
    circuits to adopt procedures for the examination of judicial
     ~onduct in cases where it is warranted and to take appropriate
    action with respect to such instances. The Committee is in­
    structed to undertake such a study and report back at the
    next meeting of the Iudicial Conference.


                       CONTRACT DISPUTES

  The Subcommittee on Federal Spending Practices and
Open Government of the Senate Committee on Governmental
Affairs had requested the views of the Conference on S. 2787,
a bill to provide for the resolution of claims and disputes
relating to government contracts awarded by executive agen­
cies. The bill would provide for the first time an orderly and
rational structure for the litigation of claims involving govern­
ment contracts, in place of the present fragmented and non­
systematized arrangement. It would aid small contractors for
whom the high cost of litigation is a serious and sometimes
insufferable burden by providing an inexpensive, expedited
method for adjudicating their claims. Finally, it would de­
crease the workload of the district courts by giving the Court
of Claims exclusive jurisdiction to review those claims. The
Conference voted to approve the bill.
                              S1
             COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

  The report of the Committee on the Budget was submitted
by the Chairman of the Committee, Chief Judge Robert E.
Maxwell.

            ApPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR     1979
   The Conference was advised that the budget estimates sub­
mitted to the Congress for the fiscal year 1979 (exclusive of
the Supreme Court) were initially in the amount of $475,945,000.
The Appropriations Committee in the House of Representa­
tives added an additional $577,000 to the estimates for the
Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals which had hereto­
fore been financed out of appropriations to the Department
of Energy. The sum of $471,357,000 was included in the bill
approved by the House of Representatives on July 20, 1978,
which was $5,165,000 less than the amount requested but an
increase of $36,230,000 over appropriations for the fiscal year
1978.
   The Senate Appropriations Committee amended the bill to
include an additional $8,150,000; $5,000,000 for pretrial
services agencies, $1,041,000 for additional magistrates,
$348,000 for reclassification of judges' secretaries, and
$1,761,000 for additional temporary secretaries and law clerks
for the courts of appeals. When the bill was considered on
the floor of the Senate, an amendment was adopted reducing
the appropriation for "space and facilities" by $1,000,000.
Conferees thereafter agreed to the Senate version of the bill.
   The Conference authorized the Director of the Administra­
tive Office to submit to the Congress requests for supplemen­
tal appropriations for the fiscal year 1979 for "pay costs",
and for implementation of new legislation and actions of
the Conference, and for any other reason he considers neces­
sary and appropriate.

          BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR FISCAL YEAR      1980

   The Conference approved the budget estimates for the
fiscal ye~r 1980 which, exclusive of the Supreme Court, the
Customs Court, and the Federal Judicial Center, aggregated
                              52 

$529,681,000, an increase of approximately $56,000,000 over
the fiscal year 1979. The sum of $32,000,000 was included to
cover salaries and expenses in anticipation of the passage of
the bill to create 152 new judgeships. The estimates take into
account the recommendations of the respective committees
of the Conference which will require additional funding. The
Director of the Administrative Office was authorized to amend
the budget estimates as may be required because of new legis­
lation or for any other reason the Director considers neces­
sary and appropriate.
   The Conference also authorized the consolidation of the
appropriations for "space and facilities" and "furniture and
furnishings" in the budget estimates for the fiscal year 1980
and a transfer of funds for the rental of space, alterations,
and other related services to the respective appropriations of
the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, the Customs Court,
the Court of Claims, the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts and the Federal Judicial Center.
   The Committee reported that it had deferred any requests
of funds for deputy clerks for the district courts pending
completion of the work measurement studies by the Adminis­
trative Office previously authorized by the Conference, and
had deferred requests for funds for additional personnel for
the Probation Service pending experience in administering
the drug aftercare program and the reevaluation of the staffmg
formula. The Committee was authorized to adjust the requests
for clerical personnel in the bankruptcy courts in the light
of the decline in bankruptcy case filings or because of any
new bankruptcy legislation.


                  REVIEW COMMITTEE

   The report of the Review Committee was presented by the
Chairman, Judge Edward A. Tamm.
   Judge Tamm reported that during the last reporting period
the Review Committee had examined a total of 1t 722 reports
of judges, bankruptcy judges, magistrates, probation officers,
clerical employees, circuit executives and public defenders.
Fifty reports were received too late to be considered at the
                                  S3
last Committee meeting and therefore will be examined at the
next meeting of the Committee.
   Under current requirements, circuit executives, staff coun­
cil, public defenders and certain officers in the Administra­
tive Office of the United States Courts and the Federal Judi­
cial Center are required to file semi-annual reports of extra­
judicial income with the Committee. At this time there are no
Conference-approved standards governing the outside em­
ployment and outside affiliations of these officers and em­
ployees. Accordingly, the Joint Committee on the Code of
Judicial Conduct has been requested by the Review Commit­
tee to draw up proposed standards for the consideration of
the Conference.
   Judge Tamm stated that the Committee has been con­
ducting a continuing study of the forms for reporting extra­
judicial income with a view to minimizing the burden of
executing the form. As a result of these studies, the Com­
mittee has asked the Director of the Administrative Office
to make certain changes in the form to facilitate its prepara­
tion,·
   Judge Tamm advised the Conference that 10 district judges,
one senior circuit judge, and two U.S, magistrates have not
filed reports of extra-judicial income for the period January
1 to June 30th, 1978, as follows:
              Adjudicatory Officials who have not filed, as
                of October 18,1978, Reports of Extra­
                Judicial Income for the Period Ending
                             June 30, 1978

Second Circuit:          Inzer B. Wyatt              Ninth Circuit:
Edmund L. Palmieri         Sr. District Judge        Warren J. Ferguson
  Sr. District Judge                                   District Judge
                         Sixth Circuit:
Sylvester J. Ryan                                    Peirson M. Hall
                         Frank J. Battisti             Sr. District Judge
  Sr. District Judge
                           District Judge
Edward Weinfeld                                      Harry Pregerson
                         W. Thomas Dillard, III
  District Judge                                       District Judge
                           U.S. Magistrate
                                                     Manuel L. Real
                          Eighth Circuit:              District Judge
                          Pat Mehaffy                Stanley A. Weigel
                            Sr. Circuit Judge          District Judge
                                  S4 

           JOINT COMMITTEE ON THE CODE 

                OF JUDICIAL CONDUCT 


  The report of the Joint Committee on the Code of Judicial
Conduct, chaired by Judges Edward A. Tamm and William
B. Jones, was presented by Judge Tamm.

                       FINANCIAL ACTIVIlY

   Canon Sc(2) of the Code of Judicial Conduct prohibits a
judge from serving "as an officer, director, manager, advisor,
or employee of any business other than a business wholly
owned by members of the judge's family ...". The Commit­
tee has expressed concern that this Canon may permit a
judge, serving as a partner in a business enterprise, to do
many things he could not otherwise do under the Canon.
Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
amended the Canon by adding therein the words "active
partner". As amended Canon Sc(2) reads as follows:
      (2) Subject to the requirements of subsection (1), a judge
    may hold and manage investments, including real estate, and
    engage in other renumerative activity, but should not serve as
    an officer, director, active partner, manager, advisor, or em­
    ployee of any business other than a business wholly owned by
    members of the judge's family, all of whom are related to the
    judge or his or her spouse within the third degree of relation­
    ship calculated according to the civil law system.

        CODES OF CONDUCT FOR CLERKS OF COURT AND 

                   PROBATION OFFICERS 


   Judge Tamm reported that a Subcommittee composed of
Judge Bernard M. Decker, Chairman, Chief Judge Frank M.
Coffin, and Judge Edward T. Gignoux, with the assistance of
a representative group of clerks and probation officers, had
developed codes of conduct pertaining to the activities and af­
filiations of clerks of court and probation officers. The two
codes are identical in most respects and follow the format of
the Code of Judicial Conduct for United States Judges. The
Committee believes that these codes will adequately deal with
existing problems and provide standards as high or higher
than those of the Executive Branch of the Government. Upon
                             ss 

recommendation of the Committee the Conference adopted
the Code of Conduct for United States Clerks to be appli­
cable to all clerks of court and deputy clerks of court and the
Code of Conduct for United States Probation Officers to be
applicable to all probation officers and pretrial services offi­
cers.
  The Conference further directed that the semi-annual re­
ports of nongovernmental income, provided for in these codes,
be filed with the Review Committee, with the chief judge of
the court which the clerk or probation officer serves, and
with the clerk of that court. The Advisory Committee on
Judicial Activities was authorized to render advisory opinions
concerning the application and interpretation of these codes
only when requested by the chief judge of a circuit court, a
chief judge of a district court, or by the Review Committee.

                  FILING FINANCIAL REPORTS

  At its April 1976 session, Conf. Rept., p. 8, the Conference
approved a Committee recommendation "that judicial officers
who are appointed and qualify within the last 60 days of a
reporting. period not be required to file a public report of
extra-judicial income for that period". Upon the request of
the Committee the Conference extended this exception to all
persons required to make semi-annual financial reports.

                NATURALIZATION PROCEEDINGS

  A proposal to amend the Code of Judicial Conduct to
authorize the taking of "still photographs" in connection
with naturalization proceedings was referred to the Com­
mittee for further study.


 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL ACTIVITIES

   The report of the Advisory Committee on Judicial Activi­
ties, chaired by Judge William B. Jones, was made by Chief
Judge Frank M. Coffin, a member of the Committee.
   Judge Coffin reported that in the past six months 22 new
inquiries were received by the Committee, compared with 16
                                   S6 

during the previous six-month period, and that the Com­
mittee has issued the following formal opinion:
     Advisory Opinion No. 56-Disqualification in cases in which a
     former law firm appears.
   In addition, the Committee is preparing two other formal
opinions for publication. To date the Committee has con­
sidered and acted upon 191 formal docketed inquiries, not
including 3S matters acted upon prior to the installation of
the docketing system.

   COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
        FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM
  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Federal Magistrates System was presented by Judge John
Lewis Smith, Jr., a member of the Committee, in the absence
of the Committee Chairman, Judge Charles M. Metzner.

               CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

   After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Of­
fice, the district courts and the judicial councils of the cir­
cuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time magis­
trates. Unless otherwise indicated, these changes become ef­
fective when appropriated funds are available. The salaries
for full-time magistrate positions are to be determined in ac­
cordance with the Judicial Conference Salary Plan.
                   DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
District of Columbia
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position which is due to ex­
         pire on January 17, 1979, for an additional eight-year term.

                            FIRST QRCUIT
District ofMaine
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Bangor for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           52,550 per annum.
                                   57 

     (2) 	 Converted the "back-up" part-time magistrate position at Port­
           land, which is currently vacant, to a deputy clerk-magistrate
           position at the currently authorized salary of 5850 per annum.
District of Massachusetts
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Boston, due to
           expire on February 28, 1979, for an additional eight-year term.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Springfield for
           an additional four-year term.
     (3) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Springfield from 54,250 to 55,950 per annum.
     (4) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Worcester.
     (5) 	 Changed the official location of the part-time magistrate position
           at Ayer to "Worcester or Ayer."
                            SECOND CIRCUIT
Connecticut
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at New Haven for
         an additional eight-year term.
Northern District of New York
     (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Syracuse to full­
           time status.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Syracuse at the
           currently authorized salary of 52,550 per annum, until the ap­
           pointment of the full-time magistrate at Syracuse.
     (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Albany for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           521,600 per annum.
     (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Auburn at the
           currently authorized salary of 521,600 per annum, until the ap­
           pointment of the full-time magistrate at Syracuse.
     (5) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Champlain and
           Watertown for additional four-year terms at the currently
           authorized salaries of 55,950 and 51,700 per annum, respec­
           tively.
     (6) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at Rome and
           Binghamton upon the expiration of the incumbents' current
           terms.
Eastern District of New York
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Patchogue for
         an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
         of 54,250 per annum.
                                        58
Western District ofNew York
      (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Buffalo for an
            additional eight-year term.
      (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Rochester,
            Elmira and Niagara Falls for additional four-year terms at the
            currently authorized salaries of $2,500, $850 and $850 per
            annum, respectively.
District of Vermont
      (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Burlington for
            an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
            of $3,400 per annum.
      (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Newport for an
            additional four-year term.
      (3) 	 Decreased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
            Newport from $3,400 to $1,700 per annum.

                            THIRD CIRCUIT
District ofNew Jersey
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Trenton for an
          additional eight-year term.
Middle District of Pennsylvania
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Williamsport for
         an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
         of $3,400 per annum.
Western District of Pennsylvania
     (1) 	 Continued the two full-time magistrate positions at Pittsburgh
           for additional eight-year terms.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Erie for an addi­
           tional four-year term.
     (3) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at Erie
           from $5,950 to $9,350 per annum.

                           FOURTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of North Carolina
     (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate at Fayetteville
         from $21,600 to $24,200 per annum.
Middle District ofNorth Carolina
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Greensboro for
         an additional eight-year term.
                                     S9
      (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at "Laurinburg
            or Rockingham."
Eastern District of Virginia
     (1) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Richmond from $850 to $24,200 per annum.
     (2) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Williamsburg from $21,600 to $24,200 per annum.
Northern District of West Virginia
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Elkins for an ad­
           ditional eight-year term.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Wheeling for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           $1,700 per annum.
     (3) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at Martinsburg
           at a salary of $850 per annum.


                               FIFTH CIRCUIT
Northern District ofAlabama
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Birmingham, due
           to expire on February 7, 1979, for an additional eight-year term.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at "Huntsville or
           Decatur" for an additional four-year term at the currently
           authorized salary of $14,450 per annum.
     (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Florence for an
           additional four-year term.
     (4) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Florence from $3,400 to $4,250 per annum.
     (5) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at "Anniston or
           Gadsden" upon the expiration of the incumbent's current term.
Middle District ofAlabama
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Dothan or
         Opelika for additional four~year terms at the 'currently authorized
         salaries of $19,000 and $4,250 per annum, respectively.
Southern District ofAlabama
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Mobile for an
           additional eight-year term.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Selma for an ad­
           ditional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           $1,700 per annum.
                                     60 

Southern District ofFlorida
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Miami due to ex­
           pire on January 14, 1979, for an additional eight-year term.
     (2) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at Fort Pierce
           at a salary of $2,550 per annum.      .
Northern District of Georgia
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Rome, Gaines­
         ville, and "Newnan or La Grange" for additional four-year terms
         at the currently authorized salaries of $11,050, 55,950 and
         51,700 per annum, respectively.
Eastern District ofLouisiana
     (1) 	 Continuedthe fuB-time magistrate position at New Orleans,
         due to expire on January 24, 1979, for an additional eight-year
         term.
Middle District ofLouisiana
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Baton Rouge for
           an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
           of 5850 per annum.
Western District ofLouisiana
     (1) 	 Converted  the part-time magistrate position at Lafayette to full­
         tim~   status.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Lafayette at the
           currently authorized salary of 524,200 per annum until the ap­
           pointment of the new fun-time magistrate.
     (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Lake Charles,
           Alexandria, Leesville, and Monroe for additional four-year
           terms at the currently authorized salaries of 519,000, 519,000,
           511,050 and 53,400 per annum, respectively.
Northern District of Texas
     (1) 	 Continued   the two fun-time magistrate positions at Dallas for
           additional eight-year terms.
     (2) 	 Continued the magistrate position at Lubbock as a part-time
           magistrate position for an additional four-year term at the cur­
           rently authorized salary of 519,000 per annum.
     (3) 	 Continued the authorization for conversion of the part-time
           magistrate position at Lubbock to a full-time combination
           referee-magistrate position.
     (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Wichita Falls
           for an additional four-year term.
                                   61
     (5) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Wichita Falls from $5,950 to $7,650 per annum.
     (6) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Amarillo and
           San Angelo for additional four-year terms at the currently
           authorized salaries of $4,250 and $850 per annum, respectively.

Eastern District of Texas
     (1) 	 Authorized a second full-time magistrate position for the
           district to serve at Tyler.
     (2) 	 Continued the authorization for the part-time referee in bank­
           ruptcy at Tyler to perform the duties of a part-time magis­
           trate at the currently authorized additional compensation of
           $4,250 per annum for such service, until the appointment of the
           full-time magistrate at Tyler.
     (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Texarkana for
           an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
           of $1,700 per annum.

Southern District of Texas
     (1) 	 Continued the two full-time magistrate positions at Houston,
         due to expire in early 1979, and the full-time magistrate posi­
         tion at Brownsville, for additional eight-year terms.

Western District of Texas
     (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Austin to full­
           time status.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Austin at the
           currently authorized salary of $24,200 per annum, until the ap­
           pointment of the new full-time magistrate.
     (3) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at San Antonio, due
           to expire on February 7, 1979, for an additional eight-year term.
     (4) 	 Increased the salary, for the part-time magistrate position at EI
           Paso from 521,600 to 524,200 per annum.
     (5) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Waco and Pecos
           for additional four-year terms.
     (6) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Waco from $21,600 to $24,200 per annum.
     (7) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Pecos from $9,350 to $16,750 per annum.
     (8) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at San Antonio,
           Del Rio, Eagle Pass, Big Bend National Park and Marfa for
           additional four-year terms at the currently authorized salaries of
           521,600, $19,000, $14,450, $11,050 and $5,950 per annum,
           respectively.
                                    62
                            SIXTH CIRCUIT
Western District of Kentucky
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Louisville for an
           additional eight-year term.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Hopkinsville,
           Bowling Green, and Owensboro for additional four-year terms
           at the currently authorized salaries of $21,600, $4,250 and
           $3,400 per annum, respectively.
     (3) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Mammoth
           Cave National Park upon the expiration of the incumbent's cur­
           rent term.

Eastern District of Michigan
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Detroit, due to
           expire on February 11, 1979, for an additional eight-year term.
     (2) 	 Authorized a fourth full-time magistrate position at Detroit.

Western District of Michigan
     (1) 	 Authorized a second full-time magistrate position at Grand
           Rapids.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Kalamazoo for
           an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
           of $5,950 per annum.

Northern District of Ohio
     (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at Toledo to full­
           time status.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Toledo at the
           currently authorized salary of 59,350 per annum, until the
           appointment of the new full-time magistrate.

Southern District of Ohio
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Columbus for an
           additional eight-year term.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Portsmouth,
           Steubenville and Zanesville for additional four-year terms, each
           at the currently authorized salary of $850 per annum.

Middle District of Tennessee
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Columbia for an
         additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
         $4,250 per annum.
                                    63
                               SEVENTH CIRCUIT
Northern District of Illinois
      (1) 	 Continued the three full-time magistrate positions presently
          serving at Chicago for additional eight-year terms.

Eastern District of Illinois
      (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Belleville for an
            additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
            $14,450 per annum.

Southern District of Illinois
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Peoria for an ad­
           ditional four year term at the currently authorized salary of
           $5,950 per annum.
     (2) 	 Authorized the clerk of court at Peoria to serve as a part-time
           magistrate without additional compensation.

Northern District of Indiana
     (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at South Bend to
           full-time status.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at South Bend at
           the currently authorized salary of $4,250 per annum, until the
           appointment of the new full-time magistrate.
     (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Fort Wayne for
           an additional four-year term.
     (4) 	 Decreased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Fort Wayne from $5,950 to $3,400 per annum, effective upon
           the appointment of the new full-time magistrate at South Bend.
     (5) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate. position at Lafayette for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           $850 per annum.

Southern District of Indiana
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Indianapolis, due
           to expire on May 26, 1979, for an additional eight-year telTJl.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at New Albany
           and Terre Haute for additional four-year terms, each at the cur­
           rentlyauthorized salary of $1,700 per annum.

Eastern District of Wisconsin
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Appleton and
          Green Bay for additional four-year terms, each at the currently
          authorized salary of $850 per annum.
                                   64
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Fond du Lac
           for an additional four-year term.
     (3) 	 Decreased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Fond du Lac from $1,700 to $850 per annum.
Western District of Wisconsin
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Wausau for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           $850 per annum.
     (2) 	 Continued the authorization for the part-time referee in bank­
           ruptcy at Eau Claire to perform the duties of a part-time magis­
           trate for an additional four-year period at the currently
           authorized additional compensation of $850 per annum.



                           EIGHTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of Arkansas
     (1) 	 Continuedthe part-time magistrate positions at Jonesboro and
         West Memphis for additional four-year terms, each at the
         currently authorized salary of $1,700 per annum.
Western District of Arkansas
     (1) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate positions at Hot Springs,
           EI Dorado, and Texarkana for additional four-year terms at the
           currently authorized salaries of $5,950, $2,550 and $1,700 per
           annum, respectively.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Harrison for an
           additional four-year term.
     (3) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Harrison from $2,550 to $3,400 per annum.
     (4) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Fayetteville
           upon the expiration of the incumbent's current term.
Southern District ofIowa
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Council Bluffs
         for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
         salary of $1,700 per annum.
District of Minnesota
     (1) 	 Continuedthe authorization for the part-time referee in bank­
         ruptcy at Duluth to perform the duties of a part-time magistrate
         for an additional four-year period at the currently authorized
         additional compensation of $24,200 per annum.
                                   6S 

     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Bemidji for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           $850 per annum.
     (3) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at International
           Falls at the expiration of the incumbent's current term.
Western District of Missouri
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Kansas City, due
         to expire in 1979, for an additional eight-year term.
District of Nebraska
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Lincoln, "Gering
         or Scottsbluff" and North Platte for additional four-year terms
         at the currently authorized salaries of $1,700, $850 and $850
         per annum, respectively.
District ofNorth Dakota
    . (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Minot, Grand
         Forks and "DeviI's Lake or Minnewaukan" for additional four­
         year terms at the currently authorized salaries of $2,550, $2,550
         $1,700 per annum, respectively.
District of South Dakota
     (1) 	 Converted the part-time referee/magistrate position at Sioux
           Falls to a part-time magistrate position.
     (2) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Sioux Falls from $4,250 to $7,650 per annum.
                            NINTH CIRCUIT
District ofAlaska
      (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Juneau,
          Ketchikan and Nome for additional four-year terms, each at the
          currently authorized salary of $850 per annum.
District ofArizona
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate positions at Phoenix and
           Tucson for additional eight-year terms.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Grand Canyon
           National Park and Yuma for additional four-year terms at the
           currently authorized salaries of $19,000 and $14,450 per
           annum, respectively.
Northern District of California
     (1) 	 Continued the two full-time magistrate positions at San F~an­
           cisco, due to expire during 1979, for additional eight-year terms.
                                     66
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Oakland for an
           additional four-year term.
     (3) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Oakland from $21,600 to $24,200 per annum.
     (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at San Jose and
           Eureka for additional four-year terms at the currently authorized
           salaries of $14,450 and $850 per annum, respectively.
Eastern District of California
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Sacramento for
           an additional eight-year term.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Merced for an
           additional four-year term.
     (3) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Merced from $1,700 to $4,250 per annum.
     (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at "Sequoia and
           Kings Canyon National Parks," Bakersfield, Bishop, South
           Lake Tahoe, Modesto, Alturas and Yreka for additional four­
           year terms at the currently authorized salaries of $14,450,
           $7,650, $5,950 $1,700, $1,700, 5850 and $850 per annum,
           respectively.
District of Hawaii
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Hilo, Iohnston
          Island, Lihue and Wailuku for additional four-year terms at the
          currently authorized salaries 0[$1,700, 5850, 5850 and 5850 per
          annum, respectively.
District ofIdaho
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Pocatello,
         Lewiston and Twin Falls for additional four-year terms at the
         currently authorized salaries of 53,400, 51,700 and 51,700 per
         annum, respectively.
District ofMontana
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Kalispell, Butte,
         Great Falls, Missoula, Helena, Cut Bank and Miles City for
         additional four-year terms at the currently authorized salaries of
         54,250, 53,400, 52,550, 52,500, 51,700, 5850 and 5850 per
         annum.
District ofNevada
     (1) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
         Reno from 519,000 to 524,200 per annum.
                                   67 

District of Oregon
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Portland, due to
           expire on January 13, 1979, for an additional eight-year term.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Bend for an ad­
           ditional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of $850
           per annum.
Eastern District of Washington
     (1) 	 Converted  the part-time magistrate position at Spokane to full­
           time status.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Yakima for an
           additional four-year term.
     (3) 	 Decreased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Yakima from $21,600 to $7,650 per annum, effective upon the
           appointment of the full-time magistrate at Spokane.
     (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Spokane and
           Yakima, each at the currently authorized salary of $21,600 per
           annum, until the appointment of the full-time magistrate at
           Spokane.
Western District of Washington
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Tacoma for an
         additional eight-year term.

                           TENTH CIRCUIT
District of Colorado
     (1) 	 Continued   the full-time magistrate position at Denver, due to
           expire on February 28, 1979, for an additional eight-year term.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Colorado
           Springs and "Steamboat Springs or Craig" for additional four­
           year terms.
     (3) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Colorado Springs from $14,450 to $19,000 per annum.
     (4) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           "Steamboat Springs or Craig" from $850 to $1,700 per annum.
     (5) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Rocky Mountain
           National Park, Grand Junction, and "Cortez or Durango" for
           additional four-year terms at the currently authorized salaries
           of $11,050, $2,550 and $1,700 per annum, respectively.
District of New Mexico
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Albuquerque for
           an additional eight-year term.
                                     68
      (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Las Cruces for
            an additional four-year term.
      (3) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at Las
            Cruces from $11,050 to $12,750 per annum.
      (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Clovis and
            Roswell for additional four-year terms, each at the currently
            authorized salary of $850 per annum.

Northern District of Oklahoma
      (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Miami for an
          additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
          $4,250 per annum.

Eastern District of Oklahoma
      (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Hugo for an ad­
          ditional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
          $1,700 per annum.

Western District of Oklahoma
     (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Oklahoma City
           for an additional eight-year term.
     (2) 	 Authorized a second full-time magistrate position at Oklahoma
           City.
     (3) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Lawton for 	an
           additional four-year term.
     (4) 	 Increased the salary for the. part-time magistrate position at
           Lawton from $21,600 to $24,200 per annum.
     (5) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at "Enid or
           Ponca City" upon the expiration of the incumbent's current
           term.

District of Utah
     (1) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at "Ogden or Salt
           Lake City" to full-time status.
     (2) 	 Changed the official location of the full-time magistrate position
           from "Ogden or Salt Lake City" to Salt Lake City.
     (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at "Ogden or Salt
           Lake City" until the appointment of the full-time magistrate
           at Salt Lake City.
     (4) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           "Ogden or Salt Lake City" from $21,600 to $24,200 per annum,
           until the appointment of the full-time magistrate at Salt Lake
         City.
                                  69 

     (5) 	 Authorized the clerk of court at Salt Lake city to perform the
           duties of a part-time magistrate without additional compensa­
           tion.
     (6) 	 Authorized a part-time magistrate position at Cedar City at a
           salary of $4,250 per annum.
     (7) 	 Authorized a part-time magistrate position at "Moab or
           Monticello" at a salary of $2,550 per annum.
     (8) 	 Authorized a part-time magistrate position at "Vernal or Roose­
           velt" at a salary of $2,550 per annum.
District of Wyoming
     (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Yellowstone Na­
           tional Park for an additional four-year term at the currently
            authorized salary of $19,000 per annum.
     (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Lander for an
           additional four-year term.
     (3) 	 Increased the salary for the part-time magistrate position at
           Lander from $1,700 to $2,550 per annum.
     (4) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Green River,
           Worland, Cody and Casper for additional four-year terms, each
           at the currently authorized salary of $850 per annum.
     (5) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Laramie upon
           the expiration of the incumbent's current term.

                   SELECTION OF MAGISTRATES

   The Conference was informed that the Senate-passed bill,
S. 1613, relating to the jurisdiction of magistrates, would re­
quire the Iudicial Conference to promulgate procedures and
standards to be followed by the courts in the selection of
magistrates. These procedures and standards would super­
sede the guidelines previously approved by the Conference. A
bill under consideration in the House of Representatives,
however, would require the use of "magistrate selection
panels" by the district courts.
   In view of the likelihood of the enactment of legislation
during the current session of the Congress, the Committee
has requested the staff of the Administrative Office to pro­
vide copies of the pending legislation and the Conference's
previously-approved selection guidelines to those district
courts which will be appointing or reappointing magistrates
in the next several months. Specifically, the district courts are
being advised to comply with the selection procedures set
                                   70 

forth in the House bill in order to insure the validity of
pending appointments in the event the House version of the
bill is enacted.

            RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR MAGISTRATES

  Judge Smith reported that the Committee has authorized
the staff of the Magistrates Division of the Administrative
Office to work with the Committee on Rules of Practice and
Procedure on needed revisions in various rules in the light of
the expansion of the jurisdiction of magistrates that would be
authorized by pending legislation.


   COMMITIEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
            BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Bankruptcy System was presented by the Chairman, Judge
Edward Weinfeld.

          SALARIES AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR REFEREES

   The Conference considered the Committee report, together
with the recommendations of the Director of the Administra­
tive Office, the judicial councils of the circuits, and the
district courts concerned, and took the following action re­
lating to referee positions and changes in salaries and arrange­
ments. The Conference directed that these actions become
effective on October 1, 1978, unless otherwise indicated.

                          SECOND CIRCUIT
Eastern District ofNew York
     (1) Changed the headquarters 	of the referees at Westbury from
           Westbury to Hempstead.
     (2) 	 Discontinued Westbury as a headquarters and place of holding
           bankruptcy court.
     (3) 	 Directed that these changes become effective when facilities at
           Hempstead are available.
                                    71
                           FOURTH CIRCUIT
District of Maryland
     (1) 	 Authorized   the continuance of the part-time referee position at
           Hyattsville to become vacant by expiration of term on November
           1, 1978, for a term of six years, effective November 2, 1978, at
           the authorized salary, with the regular place of office, territory,
           and places of holding court to remain as at present, subject
           to conversion to full-time status.
     (2) 	 Changed the part-time referee position at Hyattsville to full­
           time status as soon as appropriated funds become available, at
           the salary authorized for a full-time referee.
     (3) 	 Designated Rockville as an additional place of holding court for
           the two full-time referees in the District in addition to Balti­
           more, Hyattsville, Salisbury, Easton, and Hagerstown.
     (4) 	 Continued concurrent district-wide jurisdiction over all cases for
           the full-time referees in the District.

                             FIFTH CIRCUIT
Northern District of Alabama
     (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at
           Birmingham to become vacant by expiration of term on Novem­
           ber 14, 1978, for a term of six years, effective November 15,
           1978, at the authorized salary, the regular place of office, terri­
           tory and places of holding court to remain as at present.
     (2) 	 Authorized the continuance of the part-time referee position at
           Decatur to become vacant by expiration of term on April 30,
           1979, for a term of six years, effective May 1, 1979, at the
           authorized salary, with the regular place of office, territory, and
           places of holding court to remain as at present.
Western District of Louisiana
     (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at
         Shreveport to become vacant by expiration of term on Novem­
         ber 2, 1978, for a term of six years, effective November 3, 1978,
         at the authorized salary, with the regular place of office, terri­
         tory, and places of holding court to remain as at present.

                            SIXTH CIRCUIT
Western District of Michigan
     (1) 	 Authorized
                   the continuance of the full-time referee position at
         Grand Rapids to become vacant by expiration of term on April
                                      72 

          14, 1979, for a term of six years, effective April 15, 1979, at the
          authorized salary, with the regular place of office, territory, and
          places of holding court to remain as at present.
Northern District of Ohio
      (1) 	 Discontinued Bucyrus as a place of holding court for the referee
          at Canton.

                            SEVENTH CIRCUIT
Northern District ofillinois
      (1) 	 Designated Chicago, Waukegan, Wheaton, Geneva, Ottawa,
            Joliet, Rockford, Freeport, Sterling, and Dixon as places of
            holding court for all referees in the district.
      (2) 	 Discontinued specific designations of places of holding court
            for individual referees in the district.
Northern District of Indiana
      (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee pdsition at
            South Bend to become vacant by expiration of term on Novem­
            ber 10, 1978, for a term of six years, effective November 11,
            1978, at the authorized salary, with the regular place of office,
            territory, and places of holding court to remain as at present.

                            EIGHTH CIRCUIT
Eastern and Western Districts ofArkansas
     (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the fuU:time referee position at
           Little Rock to become vacant by expiration of term on January
           31, 1979, for a term of six years, effective February 1, 1979, at
           the authorized salary, with the regular place of office, terri­
           tory, and places of holding court to remain as at present.
                               NINTH CIRCUIT
'District of Oregon
      (1) 	 Authorized the continuance of the full-time referee position at
          Portland to become vacant by expiration of term on January
          31, 1979, for a term of six years, effective February 1, 1979, at
          the authorized salary, with the regular place of office, territory,
          and places of holding court to remain as at present.
Western District of Washington
      (1) 	 Designated Bremerton as an additional place of holding court
            for the referees in this district, in addition to Seattle, Everett,
            Bellingham, Tacoma, and Vancouver.
                             73
   COMMITIEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
             PROBATION SYSTEM
  The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
Probation System was presented by the Chairman, Judge
Gerald B. Tjoflat.

                   SENTENCING INSTITUTES

   The Committee submitted to the Conference a plan for a
Joint Institute on Sentencing for the Judges of the First,
Fourth, and District of Columbia Circuits to be held at
Raleigh. North Carolina. April 18-21. 1979. with one day at
the Federal Correctional Institution at Butner, North
Carolina. The Conference approved the time. place. partici­
pants and agenda for this Sentencing Institute.
  A major portion of the agenda for this Institute and for
future institutes on sentencing will address legislative pro­
posals, under active consideration by the Congress. that
would revise the Federal Criminal Code, bring about major
changes in the whole field of sentencing and provide for the
appellate review of sentences. The Committee accordingly
recommended that circuit judges be encouraged to attend
sentencing institutes and the Conference concurred.

     REIMBURSEMENT OF ATTORNEYS' FEES AS A CONDITION 

                     OF PROBATION 


   At the request of the Department of Justice the Commit­
tee on the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act had
previously considered whether. as a matter of policy. proba­
tioners should be required to reimburse the government for
fees paid to their attorneys under the Criminal Justice Act as
a condition of probation. The Committee believed that the
reimbursement of attorneys' fees paid under the Criminal
Justice Act should not be made a condition of probation. but
concluded that the question should be referred to the Proba­
tion Committee as a matter within its jurisdiction. Judge
Tjoflat informed the Conference that the Probation Committee
agreed with the conclusions of the Committee on the Criminal
Justice Act. The Conference. however. voted to take no ac­
tion.
                                74
                 PROBATION INFORMATION SYSTEM
     In September 1977, Conf. Rept., p. 74, the Conference en­
   dorsed the concept of a new probation information system.
  Judge Tjoflat informed the Conference that as a first step in
  developing a new system the probation offices in four selected
  districts have submitted documents on the information sys­
  tems currently in use in their offices. These documents are
  being analyzed by the Probation Division of the Administra­
  tive Office to identify information needs and the cost thereof.
  This study will lead to the design of an improved system to
  meet the needs of probation officers in the field, the judge in
  his day-to-day sentencing problems, needs at the national
  level for budget planning and management control, and the
  needs of researchers studying the treatment of offenders. The
  project has taken on particular significance in view of the
  legislative proposal under consideration in the Congress to
  require the Judicial Conference to establish advisory sen­
, tencing guidelines.

                 NARCOTIC AFTERCARE PROGRAM
     H.R. 12290, 95th Congress, would transfer the respon­
  sibility for drug aftercare programs from the Bureau of
  Prisons to the Federal Probation System. If enacted, the
  transfer would become effective on October 1, 1979.


    COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 

                CRIMINAL LAW 


    The report of the Committee on the Administration of the
  Criminal Law was presented by the Chairman, Judge Alexan­
  der Harvey II.

                    CRIMINAL CODE REVISION
   Judge Harvey informed the Conference that the Subcom­
 mittee on Criminal Justice of the House Judiciary Committee
 conducted hearings last spring on the Senate-passed Criminal
 Code Revision bill, S. 1437, and had reported to the full
 House Judiciary Committee a new bill, H.R. 13959, for the
                                  7S 

recodification of the Federal Criminal Code. Judge Harvey
stated that the Committee would continue its study of both
bills and report to a future session of the Conference.

      AMENDMENTS TO THE SPEEDY TRIAL ACT OF                 1974
   The Conference in March 1978, Conf. Rept., p. 29, re­
affirmed its previous approval of amendments to Title I of
the Speedy Trial Act, 18 U.S.C. §§3161-3174, drafted by a
Subcommittee of the Committee on Court Administration,
chaired by Judge Carl Rubin. Judge Harvey reported that the
Committee had reviewed the final speedy trial plans recently
adopted by the district courts, which were not available to
Judge Rubin's Subcommittee. Based upon its study the
Criminal Law Committee recommended the following addi­
tional amendments to Title I of the Speedy Trial Act, which
were approved by the Conference:
       (1) Elimination of the time limit between indictment and
    arraignment. The Conference had previously recommended
    that the time limits of the Speedy Trial Act be extended to 60
     days from arrest to indictment, 20 days from indictment to
     arraignment, and 100 days from arraignment to trial,
     provided that trial not commence within 30 days of arraign­
    ment without the consent of the defendant. The Committee
    endorsed these new time limits, but further recommended that
    the provision requiring a defendant to be arraigned within 20
    days of indictment be eliminated so that there would be only
    one time limit of 120 days from indictment to trial. This
    change would give greater flexibility to trial judges administer­
    ing the Act, but would not change the total time for the
    commencement of the trial of a defendant following his indict­
    ment.
       (2) Excludable time. The Committee's study of the ex­
    cludable time provisions of 18 U.S.C. 3161(h) indicated that
    much needless litigation could be avoided if the highly techni­
    cal and ambiguous provisions of this section could be made
    more flexible. The Committee therefore recommended an
    amendment to section 3161(h) to permit the court to extend
    time limits to accommodate delays reasonably necessitated by
    the kinds of events that are now dealt with as exclusions.
    Under the proposed amendment there would be no automatic
    extensions of time limits, but extensions would be permitted
    if the judge found that the event in question resulted in ex­
                                   76
      cludable delay. If this recommendation is not adopted, the
      Committee further recommended that the date when the Act
      becomes fully effective be postponed from July 1, 1979 to July
      1, 1980, so that the courts may have another full year of ex­
      perience before the harsh sanctions of the Act, including the
      dismissal of indictments with prejudice, become effective.
         (3) Judicial emergency. In the event of an emergency the
     chief judge of a district court, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3174,
    . may apply to the judicial council of the circuit for a suspen­
      sion of the Act's time limits. The council in turn may apply to
     the Judicial Conference for a suspension of the time limits for
      a period not to exceed one year. The Act does not provide for
      the suspension of any time limits during the period required
      for processing an application by a judicial councilor by the
     Judicial Conference. The Committee recommended that the
      Act be amended to grant authority to the chief judge of each
      district court to declare a temporary judicial emergency and
     suspend the time limits not to exceed 30 days pending an ap­
      plication to the circuit council and to the Conference for a
     longer suspension. The Conference, however, was further of
     the view that the judicial councils of the circuits should have
     authority to grant suspensions and that the Judicial Conference
     should not be involved. Unit the Act is so amended, the Con­
     ference authorized its Executive Committee to act for the Con­
     ference on applications for the suspension of speedy trial time
      limits.
  The Committee also recommended that the exclusions of
18 U.S.c. 3161(h) be made applicable to defendants in
custody, or high risk defendants, a recommendation pre­
viously approved by the Conference.

     DOMESTIC SURVEILLANCE OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

  Judge Harvey informed the Conference that S. 1566, a bill
relating to the domestic surveillance of foreign intelligence,
had pasted the Senate. The bill provides for a special court of
seven district judges designated by the Chief Justice and con­
forms to the recommendations approved by the Conference
last March, Conf. Rept., p. 8. A similar House bill, H.R.
7308, provides for a special trial court consisting of at least
one judge from each circuit nominated by the chief judge of
the circuit and designated by the Chief Justice, and a special
appeals court of judges residing in the vicinity of the District
                             77 

of Columbia. Upon recommendation of the Committee the
Conference reaffirmed its endorsement of the Senate-passed
bill.


           COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION 

              OF THE JURY SYSTEM 


  Chief Judge C. Clyde Atkins, Chairman of the Committee
on the Operation of the Jury System, presented the report of
the Committee.

                MODEL GRAND JURY CHARGE

   Judge Atkins submitted to the Conference a model grand
jury charge drafted by a Subcommittee consisting of Judges
Myron L. Gordon, Howard F. Corcoran, and Robert E.
Varner, which is designed for the use of district courts in in­
structing grand juries at the commencement of their service.
The Conference approved the model grand jury charge as
submitted and authorized its distribution to all district judges
with a recommendation that each district court give considera­
tion to its regular use in the empanelling of grand juries.

        TRIAL STANDARDS AND PEREMPTORY CHALLENGES

   Judge Atkins informed the Conference that a Subcommit­
tee of the Committee on the Operation of the Jury System
had reviewed the American Bar Association Standards and
had concluded that the federal trial courts are in substantial
compliance with these standards and that no further action
is necessary. The Subcommittee further determined not to
make any recommendations with respect to procedural. and
technological innovations contained in the Standards on the
basis that their use should be left to the discretion of each
individual trial judge, nor to make any further recommenda­
tion regarding the number of challenges of jurors to be al­
lowed in criminal cases in view of Congressional action
declining to permit an amendment to Rule 24(b), Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure, as previously recommended by
the Conference. The report was approved by the Conference.
                                78
                  VOTER REGISTRATION LISTS
   The Conference, upon recommendation of the Committee,
reaffirmed its approval of draft legislation to establish a statu­
tory presumption that jurors selected solely from voter regis­
tration lists are representative of a fair cross-section of the
community for purposes of the statutory jury selection re­
quirement and to require a judicial finding that the voter lists
do not represent such a fair cross-section before other sources
of juror names may be prescribed by a district court. The
Director of the Administrative Office was authorized to trans­
mit draft legislation to the Congress.

                   SIX-PERSON CIVIL JURIES
  Judge Atkins informed the Conference that 80 out of 95
United States district courts are now operating under local
rules providing for civil juries of less than 12. He therefore
suggested that no further attempt be made to seeklegislation
on this subject and the Conference agreed.

                      JUROR UTILIZATION
   The Committee reported that very substantial efforts to
train and educate judges and court personnel in techniques
of juror utilization had been carried on in recent years and
that substantial improvements have been made. This training
program to improve utilization of jurors in the district courts
will be continued under the auspices of the Committee and
the Federal Judicial Center.


   COMMIITEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

   The written report of the Committee on Intercircuit Assign­
ments, submitted by the Chairman, Judge George L. Hart,
Jr., was received by the Conference.
   The report indicated that during the period from February
16, 1978 through August IS, 1978, the Committee had recom­
mended 69 intercircuit assignments to be undertaken by 51
judges. Of this number, five were senior circuit judges, one was
an active circuit judge, 10 were district judges in active status,
                              79 

and 26 were senior district judges. Sixteen assignments in­
volved two active judges and two senior judges of the Court of
Claims, two active judges of the Customs Court and three
active judges of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals.
   Five senior circuit judges, 12 senior district judges and two
senior judges of the Court of Claims carried out 2S of the 35
assignments to the courts of appeals which were recommended
during this period. One active circuit judge, one active
district judge, two active judges of the Court of Customs and
Patent Appeals, and two active judges of the Court of Claims
participated in the other 10 assignments to the courts of ap­
peals. Of the 34 assignments to the district courts, 15 senior
district judges participated in 18 assignments and the. re­
maining 16 assignments were carried out by nine active
district judges, two active judges of the Customs Court and
two active judges of the Court of Customs and Patent Ap­
peals.


              COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT 

              THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT 


  The report of the Committee to implement the Criminal
Justice Act was presented by the Chairman, Judge Dudley B.
BonsaI.

                ApPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

   The Conference authorized the Director of the Administra­
tive Office to distribute copies of the report on appointments
and payments under the Criminal Justice Act for the six­
month period ending March 31, 1978 to all chief judges, all
federal defender organizations and to others who may request
copies. The report indicated that the sum of 524,095,000
would be available for defense services during the fiscal year
1978 and that projected obligations are 523,688,500.
   During the six-month period ending March 31, 1978 ap­
proximately 20,300 persons were represented by appointed
counsel and defenders, as compared to 20,600 in a similar
period in fiscal year 1977, a decrease of approximately one
percent. The Committee anticipates that the total number of
                                                       80 

appointments for the year will rise to 48,000, an increase of
approximately four percent.
   The average cost per case of representation under the
Criminal Justice Act, including appeal, is now estimated to
be $453 for private panel attorneys, $467 for community
defender organizations, and $513 for federal public defender
offices.

             BUDGEf REQUESTS-FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDER

   The Criminal Justice Act, as amended, requires that each
federal public defender organization, established pursuant to
18 U.S.C. 3006A(h)(2)(A), submit a proposed budget to be
approved by the Judicial Conference in accordance with sec­
tion 605 of Title 28, United States Code. The Conference ap­
proved the following budgetary requests for these offices:
                        Fiscal Year 1979                                   Fiscal Year 1980
                     Supplemental Requests                                Budgetary Requests
                              Staff                                              Staff
                AttOTne}Q' Investigators Secretaries   Amount    Attorneys Investigators Secretaries       Amount
Arizona
Requested                                               $­           13          2            7        $    632,514
Approved                                                             12          2            7             604,000
Calif. (N)
Requested                                                             9          1            5             504,144
Approved                                                              9          1            5             504,144
Calif. (E)
Requested                                     1         23,643        7          2            5             465,052
Approved                                                12,000        7          2            4             450,000
Calif. (C)
Requested                                                           18           5           12            1,009,983
Approved                                                            18           5           12            1,009,983
Colorado
Requested                                                             4          1            2             219,979
Approved                                                              4          1            2             219,979
Connecticut
Requested                                                             4          1            2             217,580
Approved                                                              3          1            2             190,000
Fla. (N)
Requested                                                             2                       2             142,826
Approved                                                              2                       2             133,000
Fla. (M)
Requested           1                         1         87,560        6          3            4             317,062
Approved            1                         1        -68,000        6          2            4             298,000
Fla. (8)
Requested                                                            8           2            5             428,254
Approved                                                             8           2            5             428,254
                                                          81
                           Fiscal Year 1979                                       Fiscal Year 1980
                        Supplemental Requests                                    Budgetary Requests 

                                 Staff                                                  Staff 

                 Attorneys   Inw~tigoLOrs   Secretaries    Amount       Attorneys InveltigatoN Secretaries   Amount


Ga. (5)
Requested                                                                  3                       2          150,477
Approved                                                                   3                       2          150,411
Kansas
Requested                                                                  4                       2         254,180
Approved                                                                   4                       2         254,180
Ky. (E)
Requested                                       1              8,723       3          1            2          119,426
Approved                                        1              8,723       3          1            2          119,426
La. (E)
Requested                                                                  5           1           3         254,913
Approved                                                                   5           1           3         254,913
Maryland
Requested                                                                  1          2            4         419,953
Approved                                                                   1          2            4         408,000
Mo. (W)
Requested                                                                  8          1            4         425,129
Approved                                                                   1          1            4         400,000
Nevada
Requested                                                                  4                       2         241,151
Approved                                                                   4                       2         231,000
New Jersey
Requested                                                      13,630      8          3            4         452,390
Approved                                                       13,630      8          3            4         452,390
New Mexico
Requested                                                                  3                       2          186,244
Approved                                                                   3                       2          180,000
Ohio (N)
Requested                                                                  4                       2         235,308
Approved                                                                   4                       2         235,308
Pa. (W)
Requested                                                                  3                       2         230,409
Approved                                                                   3                       2         224,000
Puerto Rico
Requested           4            2              2          191,859         6           2           3         336,480
Approved                                                                   2                       1         138,621
South Carolina
Requested                                                      4,000       3                       2         119,341
Approved                                                       4,000       3                       2         119,341
Tenn. (W)
Requested                                                                  2                       1          104,642
Approved                                                                   2                       1          104,642
Texas (5)
Requested                                                                  1          2            5         403,106
Approved                                                                   1          2            5         403,106
Texas (W)
Requested                                                                  1          2            5         416,255
Approved                                                                   1          2            5         416,255
                                                               82
                            Fiscal Year 1979                                        Fiscal Year 1980
                         Supplemental Requests                                     Budgetary Requests
                                  Staff                                                   Staff
                     Attomeys Investigators Secretaries       Amount    Attorneys Investigators Secretaries    Amount

 Virgin Islands
 Requested                                                                     3          2            2         237,440
 Approved                                                                      3          2            2         237,440
 Wash. (W)
 Requested                                                       91,488        6          2            4         365,321
 Approved                              1             1           60,000        5          2            4         335,000
 We.st. Va. (S)
 Requested                                                                     2                                  123,036
 Approved                                                                      2                                 123,036
 TOTALS
 Requested                6            4            6         $ 426,903     159         43           96       $ 9,133,861
 Approved                 1            1            3         $ 166,353     151         39           93       $ 8,751,761
 Net                     -5           -3           -3         $-260,550      -8         -4           -3       $ -382,100



                NEW DEFENDER OFFICES-BUDGET REQUESTS

    Judge BonsaI informed the Conference that a new public
 defender office was established last February in the Middle
 District of Tennessee, that a single federal public defender
 office to serve both the Eastern and Southern Districts of
 Illinois was established in May, and that the half-time com­
 munity defender office in the District of Minnesota was being
 converted to a full-time federal public defender office. This
 increases the total number of federal public defender offices
 to 31. Upon recommendation of the Committee the Confer­
 ence approved the following budgetary requests for these of­
 fices:
                                 Fiscal Year 1979                                    Fiscal Year 1980
                                       Staff                                               Staff
                      Attorneys InvestigQtOTS Secr'>!ftlrin    Amount     Attormys Investigators Secretarin     Anwunt 

  Ill. (E. & S.) 

  Requested               2                                   $ 113,155      2                        1        $ 119,794
  Approved                2                                     109,000      2                        1          115,000
  Minnesota
  Requested               2                         2           138,333      2                        2           141,890
  Approved                2                         2           138,333      2                        2           141,890
- Tenn. (M)
  Requested               3                         2           166,690      3           1            2          117,115
  Approved                3                         2           166,690      3                        2          177,115
  TOTALS
  Requested               7                         5         $ 418,178      7           1            5        $ 438,799
  Approved                7                         5         $ 414,023      7           1            5        $ 434,005
  Net                                                         $ -4,155                                         $ -4,794
                             83
     AMENDMENTS TO CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT GUIDELINES
  Judge BonsaI submitted to the Conference proposed
amendments to the Guidelines for the Administration of the
Criminal Justice Act to indicate that a guardian ad litem ap­
pointment under 18 U.S.C. 1534 is not eligible to receive
compensation under the Criminal Justice Act and that secre­
tarial expenses are considered part of a lawyer's overhead and
should not be allowed absent an "exceptional situation".
He also submitted general guidelines on the allowance of "ex­
cess compensation" under the Act. These amendments to the
guidelines were approved by the Conference.

                      ADMINISTRATION
   Judge BonsaI informed the Conference that the Adminis­
trative Office has been directed to draft an agreement to be
executed annually by community defender organizations to
be forwarded with each request for a grant. Meanwhile the
Administrative Office has been directed to require an annual
audit of each community defender's expenditures of federal
grants, on a federal fiscal year basis, as a prerequisite to
receiving such a grant.
   The Administrative Office has also prepared regulations
governing the appointment of counsel to represent United
States citizens imprisoned in foreign countries who have re­
quested transfers pursuant to treaties entered into by the
United States with foreign nations.
   Judge BonsaI also pointed out that circuit council approval
must be obtained for additional public defender positions be­
fore the Committee will recommend approval of funds to sup­
port these positions. He suggested that each circuit council
seek the advice and recommendation of the Criminal Justice
Act Division of the Administrative Office prior to approving
new positions.

         COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE 

                AND PROCEDURE 

  The Report of the Committee on Rules of Practice and
Procedure was submitted by the Chairman, Judge Roszel C.
Thomsen.
                              84
                      ApPELLATE RULES

   On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference ap­
proved for transmittal to the Supreme Court of the United
States a series of proposed amendments to Rules 1, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 10, 11, 12, 13,24,27,28, 34, 35, 39 and 40, Federal Rules
of Appellate Procedure. The Conference was advised that
the proposed rules had been previously circulated to the bench
and bar for comment and that the Advisory Committee on
Appellate Rules, under the chairmanship of Judge Bailey
Aldrich, had fully considered the comments received.

                      CRIMINAL RULES

   On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference ap­
proved for transmittal to the Supreme Court of the United
States proposed amendments to Rules 6,7,9, 11, 17, 18,32,
35, 40, 41 and 44, Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, and
proposed new criminal Rules 26.2 and 32.1; a proposed
amendment to Rule 410 of the Federal Rules of Evidence; a
proposed amendment to Rule 10 of the rules governing Sec­
tion 2254 cases; and proposed amendments to Rules 10 and
11 of the rules governing Section 2255 proceedings for the
United States district courts. These proposals had previously
been submitted to the bench and bar for comment. For the
most part, the proposed changes are in the nature of correc­
tive amendments to bring the criminal rules into conformity
with other changes in law and in recent court decisions.

                        CIVIL RULES

   Judge Thomsen advised the Conference that the Advisory
Committee on the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure had cir­
culated proposed amendments to the bench and bar last
March with a request that comments be submitted within 90
days. The Attorney General of the United States and several
organizations subsequently requested that the time for sub­
mitting the comments be extended to permit further con­
sideration of the proposed changes. Because of the contro­
versial nature of some of the proposed amendments and the
short period of time originally allowed for comment, the Ad­
visory Committee extended the date for sUbmitting comments
                             8S 

to November 30, 1978 and scheduled hearings on the pro­
posed changes to be held in Washington, D.C. on October
16th and in Los Angeles on October 26th. The Advisory
Committee plans to meet early in December to review all
comments and suggestions received and to complete its work
on the proposed amendments in time for presentation to the
Standing Committee in January and to the March session of
the Judicial Conference.

     PARTICIPATION OF BENCH AND BAR IN RULE-MAKING

   Judge Thomsen stated that the Standing Committee from
time to time has received criticism of the rule-making process
because of the length of time required to effect change. He
reported that the Standing Committee has considered the
need to speed up the rule-making process on the one hand,
and on the other hand to permit adequate time for the formula­
tion and submission of proposed changes. As a result, the
Standing Committee has suggested to the advisory commit­
tees that they conduct public hearings on all important pro­
posed amendments to the rules and give consideration to the
appropriate period of time to be allowed for comment.


        COMMITIEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES
  The written report of the Committee on Pacific Territories,
chaired by Judge Richard H. Chambers, was received by the
Conference. The report advised the Conference on develop­
ments in the Territories of Guam and American Samoa, in
the Northern Mari~ma Islands, and in the Trust Territory of
the Pacific Islands. The Committee is currently considering
problems involving federal appellate review of the decisions of
local courts in these areas.


        COMMITIEE ON THE BICENTENNIAL 

    OF INDEPENDENCE AND THE CONSTITUTION 

  A written. report of the Committee on the Bicentennial of
Independence and the Constitution, chaired by Judge
Clement F. Haysworth, Jr., was received by the Conference.
                                  86 

The report indicated that Congress has approved the expendi­
ture of the funds remaining in the Committee's original ap­
propriation for celebrating the Bicentennial of Independence
to plan for the judiciary's participation in the Bicentennial
of the Constitution. Other groups have started to plan for
this event and coordinating efforts among these groups have
begun.


  COMMITTEE TO CONSIDER STANDARDS FOR
ADMISSION TO PRACTICE IN THE FEDERAL COURTS

   Judge Edward J. Devitt, Chairman of the Committee to
Consider Standards for Admission to Practice in the Federal
Courts, submitted the report of the Committee.
   The report included the following tentative recommenda­
tions:
        1. Minimum uniform standards of competency for attorneys
     in federal trial courts should he implemented by uniform rules
     providing for an examination in federal practice subjects and
     four trial experiences in actual or simulated trials.
       2. Each district court should establish a performance review
     committee to review instances of inadequate trial performance.
       3. A uniform district court student practice rule should be
     adopted.
       4. Law schools should make available greater opportunity
    for students to take trial practice courses.
       S. Continuing legal education programs on trial advocacy
    should be established.
       6. District courts should sponsor federal practice programs.
       7. The American Bar Association should consider making
    more specific the Code of Professional Responsibility as it re­
    lates to trial advocacy.
   The Conference, after full discussion, authorized the Com­
mittee to publish its report and tentative recommendations,
to hold public hearings, and to receive comments and com­
munications thereon from the bench and bar and other in­
terested parties. A final report and recommendations will be
submitted to the Conference at its session in September 1979.
                              87 

   PRETERMISSION OF TERMS OF THE COURTS OF
                   APPEALS

   The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the
pretermission of terms of the courts of appeals in the follow­
ing circuits during the calendar year 1979: the Fourth Circuit
at Asheville, North Carolina; the Fifth Circuit at all designated
places outside of New Orleans, Louisiana; the Eighth Circuit
at Kansas City, Missouri and Omaha, Nebraska; and the
Tenth Circuit at designated places outside of Denver,
Colorado.


          RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

  The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters
considered at this session where necessary for legislative or
administrative action.

                                     v¥arren E. Burger
                             Chief Iustice of the United States

November 16, 1978
                                INDEX

                                                                      Page
Additional Personnel: 

     Bankruptcy Courts ......................................... 52 

     Deputy Clerks ............................................. 52 

     Probation Service .......................................... 52 

Administration of the Criminal Justice Act ......................... 83 

Administrative Office of the United States Courts: ................... 40 

     Annual Report of the Director ............................... 41 

Admission to Practice in the Federal Courts, Standards 

  to Consider: 

     Committee on, Report of. ................................... 86 

     Recommendations ......................................... 86 

Air Disaster Litigation .......................................... 47 

Amendments to Criminal Justice Act Guidelines .................... 83 

Appellate Review of Decisions of the Court of Military 

  Appeals .................................................... 46 

Appellate Rules ................................................ 84 

Appointments and Payments under the Criminal Justice 

  Act ........................................................ 79 

Appropriations: 

     Fiscal Year 1979, Supplemental. ............................. 51 

     Fiscal Year 1980, Estimates ................................. 51 

     Fiscal Year 1978, Criminal Justice Act ........................ 79 

Art Bank Act of 1978, National .................................. 46 

Attorneys' Fees, Reimbursement of as Condition for 

  Probation ................................................... 73 

Bankruptcy System: 

     Committee on, Report of.................................... 70 

     Salaries and Arrangements for Referees ....................... 70 

Bicentennial of Independence and the Constitution: 

     Committee on. Report of. ................................... 85 

Budget: 

     Additional Personnel for Probation Service .................... 52 

     Amendment to Appropriation Request for 1979 ................ 51 

     Budget Estimates for Fiscal Year 1980 ........................ 51 

     Clerical Personnel for Bankruptcy Courts ...................... 52 


                                    88 

                                 89 

    Committee on, Report of. ...................... , ............ 51 

    Deputy Clerks for District Courts ............................ 52 

Budget Requests: 

   Defender Offices, New ...................................... 82 

   Federal Public Defenders " ................................. 80 

Circuit Conferences: 

     Attendance at ............................................. 43 

     Membership of District Judges ............................... 44 

Civil Arbitration Pilot Program .................................. 44 

Civil Rules .................................................... 84 

Clerks of Courts: 

    Code of Conduct ........................................... 54 

    Salaries .................................................. 47 

Conference: 

    Call of .........................•......................... 39 

    Release of Action .......................................... 87 

Contract Disputes .............................................. 50 

Court Administration: 

    Air Disaster Litigation ...................................... 47 

   Appellate Review of Decisions of the Court of Military 

      Appeals ........................ '" ..................... 46 

    Attendance at Circuit Conferences ............................ 43 

    Career Law Clerks ....................•.................... 49 

    Certificates of Court Reporters ......................•........ 49 

    Civil Arbitration Pilot Program .............................. 44 

    Committee on, Report of. ................................... 42 

    Contract Disputes .......................................... 50 

   Judicial Tenure ............................................ 49 

    Membership of District Judges on Circuit Councils ...•......... 44 

    National Art Bank Act of 1978 ..........•.....•......•....... 46 

    Opinion Publication Plans .................................. 47 

    Places of Holding Court.................••.................. 45 

    Public Use of Federally Owned Buildings ...•.......•.......... 44 

    Salaries of Oerks of Courts.................................. 47 

    Staff and Quarters for Senior Judges .......................... 43 

    Uniform Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement .................... 42 

Court Reporters: 

    Certificates of Official .....•......•......•............•..... 49 

Courts: 

    Bankruptcy: 

          Clerical Personnel. ..................................... 52 

          Statistics ...........•......•.......................... 41 

                                   90 

Courts (cont'd):
    Courts of Appeals: 

         Salaries of Clerks of Court ............................. .47 

         Statistics ............................................. 41 

    District Courts: 

         Certificate of Official Court Reporters .................... 49 

         Deputy Clerks ......................................... 52 

         Probation Service ...................................... 52 

         Resolution on Places of Holding Court .................... 45 

         Salaries of Clerks of Court .............................. 47 

         Statistics ............................................. 41 

Criminal Code Revision ......................................... 74 

Criminal Justice Act: 

    Administration ............................................ 83 

    Amendments of Criminal Justice Act Guidelines ................ 83 

    Appointments and Payments ................................ 79 

    Budget Requests-Federal Public Defender .................... 80 

    Committee on, Report of.................................... 79 

    New Defender Offices-Budget Requests ...................... 82 

Criminal Law: 

    Amendments to the Speedy Trial Act of 1974 .................. 75 

    Committee on, Report of......................•............. 74 

    Criminal Code Revision ..................................... 74 

    Domestic Surveillance of Foreign Intelligence .................. 76 

Criminal Rules ................................................ 84 

Federal Criminal Code, Recodification of.......................... 74 

Federal Judicial Center: 

    Report of ................................................. 42 

Financial Activity .............................................. 54 

Financial Reports, Filing •.......•............................... 55 

Grand Jury Charge, Model ...................................... 77 

Guidelines: 

     Amendments to Criminal Justice Act ......................... 83 

Intercircuit Assignments: 

     Committee on, Report of.•....••.................•.......... 78 

Judges: 

     Advisory Opinion No. 56 ...••....•.......................•.• 56 

     Financial Activity .....•...••...•........................... 54 

     Judicial Tenure ................•.....•..................... 49 

     Membership of District Judges on Circuit Councils ........•••... 44 

     Staff and Quarters for Senior Judges .......................•.. 43 

Judicial Activities: 

     Committee on, Report of.......•.........•.................. 55 

     Opinions ....................•......•....•................ 56 

                                  91 



Judicial Conduct:
     Codes of Conduct for Clerks of Court and Probation
       Officers ................................................ 54 

     Filing Financial Reports .................................... 55 

     Financial Activity .......................................... 54 

     Joint Committee on, Report of ............................... 54 

     Naturalization Proceedings .................................. 55 

Judicial Tenure ................................................ 49 

Jurors:
     Proposed Legislation to Establish a Statutory 

        Presumption that Jurors Selected from Voter 

        Registration Lists are Representative of a Fair 

        Cross-Section of the Community ........................... 78 

     Utilization of.............................................. 78 

Jury System: 

     Committee on, Report of .............................. , ..... 77 

     Juror Utilization ........................................... 78 

     Model Grand Jury Charge ................................... 77 

     Six-Person Civil Juries ...................................... 78 

     Trial Standards and Peremptory Challenges ... " ......... , .... 77 

     Voter Registration Lists ..................................... 78 

Law Clerks, Career ............................................. 49 

Legislation:
    S. 1353-to Provide for the Review of Decisions 

             of the Court of Military Appeals ..................... 46 

    S. 1423-Judicial Tenure Act ....................... '" '" ... 49 

    S. 1437-Criminal Code Revision ............................ 74 

    S. 2645-to Establish a National Art Bank .................... 46 

    S. 2787-to Provide for the Resolution of Claims of 

             Disputes Relating to Government Contracts 

             Awarded by Executives Agencies ..................... 50 

    S. 1566-Relating to Domestic Surveillance of 

          &  Foreign Intelligence ................................ 76 

    H.R. 7308 

    H.R. 10917-to create a Uniform Body of Law 

                  Governing Liability for Injury to Loss 

                 of Property or any Personal Injury 

                 or Death Arising Out of Aviation 

                  Activity....................................... 47 

    H.R. 12290-to Transfer the Responsibility for 

                 Drug Aftercare Programs from the 

                 Bureau of Prisons to the Federal 

                  Probation System .............................. 74 

                                    92 

Legislation (cont'd):
     H.R. 13959-Recodification ofthe Federal 

                    Criminal Code .. , ............... , .............. 74 

    Draft Legislation to Establish a Statutory
       Presumption that Jurors Selected Solely
       from Voter Registration Lists are Representative
       of a Fair Cross-Section of the Community ................... 78 

Magistrates: 

    Changes in Positions ....................................... 56 

    Rules of Procedure ......................................... 70 

    Selection of ............................................... 69 

Magistrates System:
     Changes in Magistrate Positions .............................. 56 

     Committee on, Report of.................................... 56 

     Rules of Procedure for Magistrates ........................... 70 

     Selection of Magistrates..................................... 69 

Narcotic Aftercare Program ..................................... 74 

Naturalization Proceedings ...................................... 55 

Opinion No. 56, Advisory-Disqualification of a Judge 

     in Cases in which a Former Law Firm Appears ................. 56 

Opinion Publication Plans ...................................... 47 

Pacific Territories: 

     Committee on, Report of.................................... 8S
Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, Judicial:
     Report ................................................... 42 

     Statistics ................................................. 42 

Places of Holding Court......................................... 45 

Pretermission of Terms of Courts of Appeals ....................... 87 

Probation Information System ................................... 74 

Probation Officers: 

     Code of Conduct ........................................... 54 

Probation System: 

     Committee on, Report of.................................... 73 

     Narcotic Aftercare Program ................................. 74 

     Probation Information System ............................... 74 

     Reimbursement of Attorneys' Fees as a Condition
       of Probation ............................................ 73 

     Sentencing Institutes ............... ; ..•.................... 73 

Public Use of Federally Owned Buildings .......................... 44 

Referees: 

     Salaries and Arrangements .................................. 70 

Resolutions: 

     Authorization for the Administrative Office to Pay 

       for the Travel and Expenses of Court Personnel 

       to Attend Circuit Conferences .............................. 43 

                                  93 

Resolutions (cont'd):
     Clarification of Policy on Places of Holding Court ............... 4S 

      Retaining of Personnel and Quarters for Senior 

        Judges, Amendment of ................................... 44 

     Salaries of Clerks of Court .................................. 48 

Review Committee:
     Committee on, Report of.................................... S2
     Official Officers Who Have Not Reported ..................... S3
Rule-Making, Participation of Bench and Bar...................... 8S 

Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement ................................ 42 

Rules of Practice and Procedure: 

     Appellate Rules ............................................ 84 

     Civil Rules ................................................ 84 

     Committee on, Report of.................................... 83 

     Criminal Rules ............................................ 84 

     Participation of Bench and Bar in Rule-Making ................ 8S 

Rules of Procedure for Magistrates ............................... 70 

Salaries: 

     Career Law Clerks ......................................... 49 

     Clerks of Court ............................................ 47 

Sentencing Institutes ........................................... 73 

Speedy Trial Act of 1974: 

     Amendments to .•................•....................... " 7S 

Statistics: 

     Bankruptcy ............................................... 41 

     Courts of Appeals ......................................... . 41 

     Criminal Justice Act ........................................ 79 

     District Courts ............................................ 41 

     Multidistrict Litigation ...................•................. 42 

Surveillance of Foreign Intelligence, Domestic ...................... 76 

Trial Standards and Peremptory Challenges ........................ 77 

Voter Registration Lists ....•..•................................. 78 

