                            -


          REPORT 

             of the 

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 





        March 12-13, 1981




         Washington, D.C.
               1981
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 



        William E.   Foh~l 


            Director 

          REPORT 

             of the 

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 





        March 12-13, 1981




         Washington, D.C.
               1981
                                       (vi)

     Additional Permanent Court Reporters for 

       the Northern District of California. • • • • • • . • • • • • • .               22 

     Judicial Panel on Multidistrict 

       Litigation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22 

    Clerks' Offices in Bankruptcy Courts • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                22 

Committee on the Budget. • . • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . •            23 

    Supplemental Appropriations for 

      Fiscal Year 1981 . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • •        23 

    Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1982. ••• •• • •• • • •• •••                       24 

    Bankruptcy Caseload •••••••••••••••.••••••••••                                    24 

    Contract Court Reporters. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •             24 

    Authority to Request Supplemental 

      Appropriations .••••••.•••••.•••••••••••••••                                    24 

Judicial Ethics Committee. • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            25 

    Reporting Form and Instructions • • • • . • • • • . • • • • • • • •               25 

    Committee Review of Reports ••••••.•••••.••••••                                   25 

    Reports by Judicial Employees •••••••••••••••••••                                 25 

    Federal Income Tax Returns. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               26 

    Reports to Circuit Councils. • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            26 

Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct. • • • • • • • • • • • . •                     26 

    Activities of the Com mittee • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            26 

    Membership in Clubs. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •          26 

    Model Codes of Conduct for Various 

      Judicial Employees ••.••••• • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 27 

    Code of Conduct for Law Clerks . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • •                28 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Federal Magistrates System • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            28 

    Salaries of Magistrates • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •         28 

    Qualification Standards and 

      Selection Procedures. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • •           29 

    Attendance at Circuit Conferences • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 29 

    Changes in Magistrate Positions •••••••.••••••••••                                29 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Bankruptcy System •••••••••••••••••••••.•••••••                                     34 

    Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                   34 

    Charges for the Referees' Salary and 

        Expense Fund • • • . • . • • • • • • • . • • • . . • • • . • • . . • • •      35 

     Attendance of Debtors at Discharge
        Hearings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35 

Committee on the Administration of the 

 Probation System •.••.•••...••••..••••••.••••••                                      35 

   Sentencing Institutes •••••..•••••...•••••••••••                                   35 

   Pretrial Services Agencies ••••••••••••••••••••••                                  36 

   Narcotic Aftercare Program • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               36 

   Probation Personnel • • . • • • • • . • . . • . • . • • • • • • • • • • •          37 

                                        (vii)

Committee on the Administration of the
   Criminal Law .,., .. ., . . . . . . . . " . " " " . " " " " " " " " " " " " " "      37 

   Speedy Trial Act Guidelines ••••••.•••.••••••••••                                    38 

   Amendments to the Speedy Trial Act 

     Recommended by the General Accounting 

       o ffiee " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " ". " " " " " " "       38 

   Speedy Trial Act Reporting Requirements •••••••••• •                                 39 

Committee on the Operation of the 

  Jury System """"""""""" •• """""""""".,,""",,.,,"""                                   39 

   Secrecy of Grand Jury Proceedings ••••••. • • • • • • • • •                          39 

   Complex Criminal Jury Cases. • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • . • • •                   40 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments. . • • • • • . • • • • • . • •                    40 

Committee on Rules of Practice 

   and Proeedure " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " "      41 

     Criminal Rules" " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " "        41 

     Bankruptcy Rules • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •         41 

     Civil Rules" " " " " " " " " " " " " " "" " " " " " " " " " "" " " " " " " "       41 

     Appellate Rules" .. " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " .. " " " " "       41 

Com mittee on Pacific Territories •••.••••••• • . • • • • • • •                         42 

Committee on the Bicentennial of 

  Independence •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                        42 

Implementation Committee on Admission of 

  Attorneys to Federal Practice • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               42 

Committee to Implement the Criminal 

  Justice Aet " " " " " " "" " " " " " " " " " " " " " " . " " " " " " " " " " " "      43 

    Appointments and Payments • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • . • . • • •                 43 

    Grant Requests--Community Defender 

      Organizations • • . • • . . • • • • . • • . • • . . • . . . • • • . • . .         44 

    Budget Request--Federal Public 

        Defenders" " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " .. " " " "     45 

     Additional Funding for Defender 

       Office Operations • • . . . • • • . • . • . • • . • • . • . • . • . . •          46 

     Payment of Witness Fees .•••••••••••.••••••••••                                    46 

     Revision and Consolidation of 

       Criminal Justice Act Forms. • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • •                47 

     Revisions to the Criminal Justice Act •.••.•••. • • • • •                          47 

     Community Defender Organizations-

       Conditions of Grant. • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • . • . . . • • •           47 

     Federal Public Defender - Ft. Smith, 

        Arkansas. " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " . . • . . .     49 

Pretermission of Terms of the Courts of
  Appeals ...........................................                                   50 

Elections. .. . . . . . • . . • • . • . . . • • • . . • • . . • • • • • . • • • • • •   50 

Resolutions •••.. . . .. • • . . . • • . • • . . . • . . • • . . . • • • • . • .        50 

Committees ••...• ., . . • • • • . . . • .. • . . .. • .. • • • • • • . • . • . .       51 

              REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

                   OF THE JUDICIAL 

            CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES 


                      March 12-13, 1981

       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened
on March 12, 1981, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of
the United States, issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and continued in
session on March 13th. The Chief Justice presided and the
following members of the Conference were present:

FiI'St Circuit:

    Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin
    Chief Judge Raymond J. Pettine, District of Rhode Island

Second Circuit:

    Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg 

    Chief Judge Lloyd F. Mac1llTahon, Southern District 

     of New York 


Third Circuit:

    Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz
    Judge Alfred L. Luongo, Eastern District of Pennsylvania

Fourth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr. 

    Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., Eastern District of Virginia 


Fifth Circuit:

    Chief Judge John C. Godbold
    Chief Judge John V. Singleton, Jr., Southern District
     of Texas

Sixth Circuit:

    Chief Judge George C. Edwards, Jr. 

    Chief Judge Charles M. Allen, Western District 

     of Kentucky 

                                2




Seventh Circuit:

    Chief Judge Thomas E. Fairchild
    Judge S. Hugh Dillin, Southern District of Indiana

Eighth Circuit:

    Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
    Judge Albert G. Schatz, District of Nebraska

Ninth Circuit:

    Chief Judge James R. Browning
    Chief Judge Ray McNichols, District of Idaho*

Tenth Circuit:

    Chief Judge Oliver Seth
    Chief Judge Howard C. Bratton, District of New Mexico

District of Columbia Circuit:

    Chief Judge Carl McGowan
    Chief Judge William B. Bryant, District of Columbia
Court of Claims:

    Chief Judge Daniel M. Friedman

Court of Customs and Patent Appeals:

    Chief Judge Howard T. Markey

       Circuit Judges Charles Clark, Irving R. Kaufman, Otto
R. Skopil, Edward A. Tamm and Gerald B. Tjoflat; Senior
District Judges Elmo B. Hunter, Thomas J. MacBride and
George L. Hart, Jr.; and District Judges C. Clyde Atkins,
Robert E. DeMascio, Alexander Harvey n, Robert E. Maxwell,
and James L. King, attended all or some of the sessions of the
Conference.

       The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable
William French Smith, addressed the Conference briefly on


*Designated by the Chief Justice
                              3



matters of mutual interest to the Department of Justice and
the Conference.
       Senator Strom Thurmond, Chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, addressed the Conference briefly on
matters pending before the Senate Committee of interest to
the Judiciary. Senator Lowell P. Weicker of the Senate
Appropriations Committee visited briefly and was introduced
to the members of the Conference. Various staff members of
congressional offices attended portions of the Conference
including Claudia T. Ingram of the staff of Senator Robert
Dole; Mr. Richard W. Velde qf the staff of the Senate Judiciary
Committee; and Mr. Michael J. Remington of the staff of the
House Judiciary Committee.
       William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
Director; James E. Macklin, Assistant Director; William J.
Weller, Legislative Affairs Officer; Deborah Kirk, Deputy
Legislative Affairs Officer; and Mark W. Cannon,
Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice, attended all
sessions of the Conference.

       The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo
Levin, reported on the activities of the Center since the last
session of the Conference.
                              4




               REPORT OF THE DffiECTOR 

             OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

             OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 


       The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, Mr. William E. Foley, submitted to the
Conference a brief report on the caseloads of the United
States courts during the calendar year 1980.

       Mr. Foley reported that appeals docketed in the United
States courts of appeals increased from 21,680 in 1979 to
24,122 in 1980, an increase of 11.3 percent. During the year
there were 22,886 appeals term inated, an increase of 20.1
percent over the number terminated in 1979, but 1,236 cases
less than the number filed. As a resul t appeals pending on the
dockets of the courts of appeals climbed to a newall-time high
of 21,501 on December 31, 1980, an increase of 6.1 percent.

        During the calendar year 1980 there were 174,370 new
civil cases docketed in the United States district courts, a 7.2
percent increase over the previous year. Civil cases disposed
of during the year were 171,037,12.4 percent more than the
number terminated in 1979, but 3,333 less than the number
filed. As a result civil cases pending in the district courts
increased 1.8 percent to a record 186,958 on December 31,
1980.

       Criminal cases filed in the district courts in 1980
continued the downward trend of the last few years but at a
lesser rate. During the year there were 29,856 criminal cases
filed, a decrease of 0.8 percent from the 30,106 cases filed
during 1979. During the year there were 28,807 criminal cases
disposed of, 6.4 percent less than last year. Thus the number
of criminal cases pending on the dockets of the district courts
increased 7.3 percent to 15,398.

       In 1980 there were 472,400 bankruptcy estate filings in
the United States bankruptcy courts, an 80.4 percent increase
over the 261,818 estate filings in 1979. During the year
233,442 estates were closed, a new record number of
dispositions, but the number of pending bankruptcy estates
increased 78.1 percent as of December 31, 1980 to a record
544,737 estates.
                              5



     JUDICIAL PANEL ON MULnDISTRICT LInGAnON

       A report submitted on behalf of the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation indicated that during the six month
period ending December 31, 1980, the Panel, in carrying out its
functions under 28 U.S.C. 1407, had conducted two regularly
scheduled hearings and had entered 33 major decisions. The
Panel considered 16 new groups of multidistrict litigation and
ordered transfer in seven. These seven groups encompassed 56
civil actions of which 39 were transferred for pretrial
proceedings in conjunction with 17 actions originally filed in
the transferee districts. The Panel denied transfer in nine new
groups of cases consisting of a total of 264 separate actions.
During this period 520 actions were transferred by the Panel
for inclusion in ongoing centralized pretrial proceedings with
previously transferred actions. In the last six months 413
actions have been remanded by the Panel to the transferee
forums from which they had been originally transferred.

          COMMfITEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

       Judge Irving R. Kaufman, Chairman of the Committee
on the Judicial Branch, submitted the Committee's report.

             Salary Commission Recommendations

       Judge Kaufman stated that the quadrennial Salary
Commission in its report to the President on December 19,
1980 had recommended that the salary of a district judge be
fixed at $85,000 per annum; the salary of a circuit judge at
$90,000 per annum; the salary of an associate justice of the
Supreme Court at $115,000 per annum; and the salary of the
Chief Justice at $120,000 per annum. Judge Kaufman further
pointed out that the Commission had made several other very
important nonsalary recommendations including:

    l}   That Congress no longer block annual
         adjustments of judicial salaries under the
         Executive Salary Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act
         of 1975;

    2)   That the quadrennial Commission become a
         biennial Commission; and

    3)   That a special, one-time federal pay commission
         be convened to investigate all aspects of federal
         pay including survivors' annuities.
                               6



       Although President Carter's salary recomendations to
the Congress were less than those of the Commission, the
President    did   endorse     the   Commission's    nonsalary
recommendations. Judge Kaufman explained these recommen­
dations and the potential good they may 9.ccomplish.

      Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference adopted the following resolutions:

    1. 	 The JUdicial Conference approves the report of
         the quadrennial Commission on Executive, Legis­
         lative and Judicial Salaries.

    2. 	 The Judicial Conference supports Congressional
         passage of the salary levels recommended by
         President Carter, but considers them inadequate
         to remedy the deep problems afflicting the
         federal judiciary.     The Judicial Conference
         affirms President Carter's support of the quad­
         rennial commission's non-salary recommenda­
         tions, including a biennial com mission; a special
         commission to review all aspects of federal pay
         including the survivors' annuities plan; and an end
         to blockage of annual adjustments under the
         Executive Salary Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act.
    3. 	 The Judicial Conference finds existing legislation
         to be an unsatisfactory mechanism for the deter­
         mination     of    judicial compensation,      and
         recommends amendments creating a separate,
         biennial commission, with jurisdiction to set the
         salaries of judges only.
    4. 	 The Judicial Conference recommends the submis­
         sion of appropriate legislation to carry out the
         proposals in paragraphs 2 and 3.

       At Judge l{aufman's request the Conference authorized
the distribution of the Committee report to all judges .

                  •Judicial Survivors' Annuities

       Judge Kaufman informed the members of the
Conference that the Committee has secured the aid of a
prominent pension expert who has agreed to conduct an in­
depth analysis of the Judicial Survivors' Annuity System. The
Committee anticipates that significant legislative proposals
will result from this study.
                              7



         COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

      Senior Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the
Committee on Court Administration, presented the report of
the Committee.

     Disposition of Civil Cases Pending Over Three Years

        In September 1961 (Conf. Rept., p. 62) the Conference
adopted a resolution declaring it "to be the policy of the
judiciary that every civil case pending three years or more and
appropriate for trial be regarded as a judicial emergency by all
judges of any circuit where such cases are to be found" and in
March 1963 (Conf. Rept., p. 46) the Conference requested that
each district court deal with these cases "on a continuing
regular programmed effort." Judge Hunter pointed out that,
exclusive of ICC cases, most of which are pending in the
District of Massachusetts, civil cases pending at least three
years on the dockets of the district courts on June 30, 1980
were 11.7 percent of the total pending civil caseload,
compared with only 6.5 percent as of June 30, 1976. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee, the Conference adopted
the following resolution:

     Each district judge should periodically review his
     docket to determine the status of all cases which
     have been pending three years or more. A t the end
     of June each year, each district judge should review
     his docket and report in writing to the chief judges
     of the district and the circuit, with a copy to the
     Administrative Office, the reason each such case
     has been pending for more than three years, its
     current status, and the prospects for closing it.

              Court Reporters' Transcript Rates

        At the request of the district judge representatives to
the Judicial Conference the Committee again considered the
court reporters' transcript rates adopted by the Conference in
March 1980 (Conf. Rept., p. 17). As a result the Committee
determined that some district courts were experiencing diffi­
culties with the limitations on maximum transcript rates, but
decided to defer recommending any change in these rates
pending further study. At the same time the Committee
recognized that situations may exist in some specific districts
justifying higher rates for those districts alone. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee, the Conference authorized
                               8




the Director of the Administrative Office to increase
transcript rates for original copies only by no more than 20
percent of the existing maximum rate when, in the Director's
judgment, a district court justifies such an increase.

       The Committee also noted that there are rare instances
in which reporters, notereaders, or transcribers are not
available locally thus requiring a reporter to reimburse these
assistants for the expenses of travel in situations in which daily
or hourly transcripts are required. In these circumstances the
Committee recommended that court reporters be authorized to
claim reimbursement from the parties for the expenses of
travel and subsistence of these assistants in addition to the
prescribed fees for daily or hourly transcript, subject to the
prior written approval of the presiding judge and in amounts
consistent with the travel and per diem allowances prescribed
for regular employees. This recommendation was approved by
the Conference.

       The Conference, however, directed the Committee to
review the entire matter of transcript rates in the light of the
discussions in the Conference and to report at a later date.
Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the Administrative
Office had already been requested to conduct an extensive
survey of the entire court reporter system.
   Salaries of Clerks of Court and Chief Probation Officers
        In recent years the Congress has prohibited the
expenditure of appropriated funds to pay cost-of-living
allowances to Federal managers and executives above the
salary authorized for Level V of the Executive Schedule. As a
result, executives at several levels of responsiblity now receive
the same salary. While this "pay compressionlT applies to many
positions throughout the Government, the Conference in
September 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 47) and in March 1980 (Conf.
Rept., p. 21) adopted an additional rule limiting the pay in
certain senior graded positions in the Judiciary to $2,000 less
than Level V.        Inequities have developed because the
differential applies to certain positions and not to others. In
view of the continually recurring problem of "pay compression"
the Committee recommended that the $2,000 differential in
salary for clerks of court and probation officers embodied in
the previous resolutions of the Conference be rescinded. This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.                The
Committee was further requested to consider the adequacy of
the salaries of circuit executives and to report thereon at the
next session.
                               9



                   Space Utilization Survey
        Judge Hunter informed the Conference that, as directed
by the Committee and in response to concerns expressed by the
House Appropriations Committee, the Administrative Office
had conducted a space utilization survey and had submitted to
the district courts concerned and to the circuit judicial
councils tentative recommendations for closing certain court
facilities. As anticipated, many courts provided information
not revealed by the survey and unknown to the Administrative
Office on the need to retain facilities. Judge Hunter reported
that the Committee had reviewed all material obtained during
the course of the survey including correspondence from
interested parties such as members of Congress, local
governments, bar associations and attorneys. The survey and
study indicated that both the courts and the circuit councils
concerned had approved the closing of certain facilities at
certain district court locations. The Conference thereupon
approved of releasing to the General Services Administration
various facilities located in eighteen communities in the
following fifteen districts:

    1. Northern District of Alabama

         Tuscaloosa - Magistrate's courtroom
    2. Alaska

         Fairbanks - Conference/meeting room, provided such
              a room is available when needed
    3. Northern District of Florida
         Gainesville - Magistrate's courtroom and chambers
    4. Idaho

         Moscow and Pocatello - Probation office space

    5. Northern District of Illinois

         Rockford - Reduce probation and storage, release
             court reporter and attorney consultation rooms
                           10



6. 	 Southern District of Iowa

     Council Bluffs - Grand jury room and clerk's private
        office 


     Davenport - Court reporter office 


7. 	 Western District of Kentucky

     Louisville - One petit jury room

8. 	 Minnesota

     Fergus Falls - Release 4,060 square feet

9. Northern District of Missippissi

     Clarksdale - Court reporter's room, grand jury
         room, and probation office on third floor

10. Southern District of Mississippi

     Meridian - Grand jury room
     Vicksburg - Release all but one courtroom, jury
         room, chambers and district clerk space
II. 	Montana
      Butte - Petit jury room

12• Nebraska
      North Platte - All bankruptcy court space and areas
         designated as grand jury

13. Northern District of New York

      Plattsburgh - entire facility

14. Eastern District of Oklahoma

      Ada - 869 square feet and a witness room
      Ardmore - 1,195 square feet
                                11 




    15. Western District of Oklahoma

           Enid - Release all except one courtroom, a judge's
               chambers, reception room, jury deliberation
               room and probation office space
       In view of the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1393 relating to
venue, the Committee recommended against the complete
closing of a facility in a statutory division of a district court
where that facility is the only place of holding court in that
division, but suggested further study and close scrutiny in the
event Congress decides to change the venue statute. As to
certain places of holding court in districts which do not have
statutory divisions, the Committee has directed the
Administrative Office to restudy possible closure taking into
consideration the following factors:

    1. 	   Distances to be traveled and the availability of
           transportation for lawyers, parties, witnesses
           and jury members.

    2. 	   Actual annual usage by judges, court personnel
           and other government agencies.

    3. 	   Effect of closure on other trial costs.
    4. 	   Projected increase or decrease of usage.
    5. 	   Importance of federal court presence.

                     Places of Holding Court
       The Chief Judge of the Southern District of Georgia had
requested that the headquarters of the Swainsboro Division be
changed from Swainsboro to Statesboro, that the division be
renamed the "Statesboro" Division, and that the facility at
Swainsboro be closed. This would enable the court to use the
new state court facilities at Statesboro without charge to the
government. The Conference was advised that the proposal
had been approved by the Judicial Council of the Fifth Circuit
and accordingly approved the proposal, which will require
statutory change.
                              12 




                       Space Guidelines

       The Committee submitted a proposed reVISIon of
Chapter 9 of the United States Courts Design Guide relating to
the facilities of a bankruptcy court. The Committee had
determined that there should be three sizes of bankruptcy
courts, the standard size being 1,496 square feet and the others
1,120 and 1,820 square feet. Upon the recommendation of the
Committee, the Conference approved the revisions of Chapter
9 of the Guide, as submitted by the Committee, and adopted
the following resolution:

     It is the sense of the Conference that courtrooms
     hereinafter constructed       for    United States
     bankruptcy courts should range from 1,120 square
     feet (28 x 40) with a permissible allowance to 1,820
     square feet (35 x 52) in exceptional cases and that
     the number and size of each such court room shall
     be determined by the judicial council of the circuit
     after consultation with the bankruptcy judge.

       The Committee also submitted a proposal to amend
Chapter 13 of the United States Courts Design Guide regarding
the space for court reporters. The changes were recommended
because of the prohibition against providing space for court
reporters' employees. If all excess space were released, a
saving of $450,000 to $500,000 would result. The Committee,
however, doubted the practicality of releasing all such excess
space because the overage in some instances is so small that it
would not be cost effective to make necessary alterations.
       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference amended the provisions of Chapter 13 of the Guide
to prescribe 200 square feet for a court reporter's office and
50 square feet for storage space. These guidelines are to be
used for future planning and construction and the
Administrative Office was authorized, where feasible, to
reeoup, release, or obtain reimbursement for space presently
occupied in excess of the standard.
                      Records Disposition

      The Conference in March 1980 (Conf. Rept., p. 55)
approved schedules for the disposition of records of the various
United States courts submitted by the Ad Hoc Committee on
the Disposition of Court Records, discharged the Committee
                                13 




and authorized the Committee on Court Administration to
consider any further modifications in the schedules. Judge
Hunter informed the Conference that since that time various
problems have arisen with regard to implementing the new
schedules and establishing schedules for disposing of records
not already covered. It was the view of the Committee that
these problems require the expertise of the Ad Hoc Committee
which originally developed the existing schedules. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference authorized
the Chief Justice to reactivate the Ad Hoc Committee on the
Disposition of Court Records for the purpose of considering
modifications to existing records disposition schedules and
other problems.

        Judge Hunter also advised the Conference that civil
judgments in at least one state are valid for a period of 12
years and are thereafter renewable.            The schedule now
authorizes the disposition of civil case records in 10 years.
Pending the reconstitution of the Ad Hoc Committee the
Conference amended item A.4.b(4) of the existing schedule to
authorize the disposition of civil case files lt 20 years after date
of final action or a longer period as the court may direct.1t
Judge Hunter also stated that several circuit archives-history
committees and the American Society for Legal History had
expressed concern about the destruction of any court case
files. Since the Committee is convinced that the ultimate
responsibility for the selection and preservation of permanent
federal records lies with the National Archives and Records
Service, it recommended that the Ad Hoc Committee consider
communicating these concerns to NARS and obtaining a
statement of the means by which NARS plans to minimize the
likelihood of the destruction of historically significant court
records. The Conference approved these recommendations.
             In Banc Hearings in Courts of Appeals
       The Committee had considered a recommendation to
amend 28 U.S.C. 46{c) to allow a judge who takes senior status
to sit during an in banc hearing of a case in which he
participated. It was the view of the Committee that the
statute should be amended to permit a judge in senior status to
participate in the proceeding in banc if he participated in a
three-judge panel deciding a case on appeal. The Conference
thereupon recommended that 28 U.S.C. 46{c) be amended by
adding the following sentence:

     Any circuit judge in regular active or senior service
     sitting on a panel hearing a case shall remain
     eligible to participate as a member of the in banc
     court reviewing that panel's decision.
                             14



        Delegation of Authority to Circuit Executives
         to Approve Criminal Justice Act Vouchers

       At the request of the Chairman of the Committee to
Implement the Criminal Justice Act the Committee reviewed
the provision in Volume III of the Guide to Judiciary Policies
and Procedures which would authorize circuit councils to
delegate authority to a circuit executive to approve payment
of appointment vouchers and vouchers for expenses and other
services submitted by counsel appointed under the Criminal
Justice Act. It was the view of the Committee that circuit
councils have no authority or responsibility in regard to
vouchers for expenses under the Criminal Justice Act, and thus
have no authority or responsibility that may be delegated.
Further the fixing of compensation and approval of reasonable
expenses appears to be a non-delegable judicial function rather
than an administrative function. The Conference agreed and
directed that the statement in the Guide be deleted.

                 Miscellaneous Fee Schedules

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1930, amended the
miscellaneous fee schedule for United States bankruptcy courts
to authorize the payment to the govemment of fees for the
transcription of proceedings in bankruptcy cases when the
transcription service is performed by a regularly employed
member of the bankruptcy court staff who is not permitted by
law to retain the transcript fees, whether the proceeding is
related to a case filed under the Bankruptcy Act or the
Bankruptcy Code. The amendment reads as follows:

    12. 	 For transcribing a record of any proceeding by a
          regularly employed member of the bankruptcy
          court staff who is not entitled by statute to
          retain the transcript fees for his or her own
          account, a charge shall be made at the same
          rate and conditions established by the Judicial
          Conference for transcripts prepared and sold to
          parties by official court reporters. The party
          requesting the transcript shall pay the charge to
          the clerk of the bankruptcy court for deposit to
          the credit of the referees' salary and expense
          fund if the proceeding is related to a case
          commenced prior to October 1, 1979, and to the
          credit of the Treasury if the proceeding is
                             15 




         related to a case commenced on or after
         October 1, 1979. If the trustee in bankruptcy or
         the debtor in possession requests a transcript in
         the performance of his official duties, the
         charge shall be paid from the estate to the
         extent there is any estate realized.
       The Conference directed that this change become
effective on May 1, 1981.

                        Library Funds

       Senator DeConcini and Congressman Kastenmeier
recently conducted a survey among clerks of court concerning
the practice of charging fees for the admission of attorneys
that are in excess of the amount prescribed by the Judicial
Conference pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1914, which are then placed
in a library or other fund. A major study of library funds was
last conducted by a special Committee of the Judicial
Conference in March 1951 (Conf. Rept., p. 209). At that time
the Conference adopted the following resolution:

     Resolved, That it is the sense of the Conference
     that the amounts received by clerks, librarians, or
     other persons as Trustees for Library, or other
     Special Funds under rules or orders of the Courts of
     Appeals from attorneys on admission to a Court of
     Appeals are not monies received for the use of the
     United States, and are not coverable into the
     Treasury of the United States.
       In reviewing the information obtained from the survey
the Committee was impressed by the variety of uses to which
these funds were being put, and further, that there is a real
need for such funds. Historically, these have been considered
private trust funds that need not be placed in the Treasury.
However, courts must be careful to restrict any outlay of
monies from these trust funds to projects or purposes which
clearly redound to the benefit of the members of the class who
have contributed to the funds. At the present time there are
no Conference guidelines to aid the courts in the management
of these funds. The Conference thereupon authorized the
Committee to conduct further research and to prepare
guidelines on the sources and uses to which such trust funds
may be put and how they should be managed, invested and
audited.
                             16



              Open Meetings of the Conference

        Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed the request of Senator DeConcini
that the Conference "consider taking appropriate steps to
voluntarily open its meetings to public observation." The
Committee noted that the Congress in recent years has
demonstrated an increasing interest in working with the
Judiciary in addressing problems which can only be resolved by
Congressional action. The Conference has responded to this
increasing interest through programs such as the Brookings
Institution Seminar on the Administration of Justice and by
inviting members of Congress and Congressional staff
personnel to Conference committee meetings. Recently the
Chief Justice formalized the tradition of inviting the Chairmen
of both Congressional Judiciary Committees, or their
representatives, to attend the Judicial Conference for the
purpose of exchanging views on issues of mutual concern. The
Committee recommended that the Conference continue to rely
upon this appropriate method of communication with the public
by working with its elected representatives. The Committee
also recommended continuation of press briefings at the
conclusion of each Conference and the wide distribution of the
Reports of the Proceedings of the JUdicial Conference,
methods of publicizing the Conference's work which have
proven their effectiveness, helping rather than hindering the
Conference's ability      to   perform     its responsibilities
efficiently. These recommendations were approved by the
Conference.

         Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and
               the United States Claims Court

       The Conference in September 1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 63)
approved in general the proposals contained in S. 1477, 96th
Congress, which would merge the United States Court of
Claims and the United States Court of Customs and Patent
Appeals into a new court to be named the "United States Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit" and create a new Article I
court to be named the "United States Claims Court."
Subsequently, a slightly modified version of the proposal was
passed by the Senate as part of 8.1477 and a separate bill, H.R.
3806, was passed by the House of Representatives. In the
clOSing days of the 96th Congress conferees from both Houses
agreed to reconcile minor differences, but the bill could not be
reached for final action.
                               17



       The Committee submitted for Conference consideration
a draft bill, which is virtually identical to the text of the bill
previously agreed upon by the Senate and House conferees to
the extent that the text would create a new Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit and a new Article I United States
Claims Court. The draft bill does not incorporate items
contained in Titles I and II of S. 1477, 96th Congress, which are
being incorporated in separate legislation for Congressional
consideration. It is the view of the Committee that the draft
court consolidation bill would eliminate unnecessary conflicts
among circuits in a narrowly prescribed area of federal
practice and would directly contribute to appropriation
savings, reduced costs to litigants, and significant reductions in
time needed to termimlte cases. Upon the recommendation of
the Committee the Conference approved the draft bill and
authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to
transmit it to the Congress as a Judicial Conference proposal.

               Judicial Administration Reform Act

         The Conference had previously approved many of the
proposals contained in S. 1477, 96th Congress, to reform
certain provisions of the Judicial Code relating to the
administra tion of the courts (see Conf. Repts., Sept. 1979, p •
.:; 1 and Mar. 1980, p. 8). Upon the recommendation of the
Com mittee tlte Conference authorized the Director of the
Administrative Office to prepare and translTIit to Congress a
draft Judicial Administration Reform Act containing the
following proposals, taken from S. 1477, which have already
been approved by the Conference:

    (1) 	   An amendment to 28 U.S.C. §§ 45 and 136
            pertaining to the selection and tenure of chief
            judges.

    (2) 	 An amendment to 28 U.S.C. §§ 45 and 46
          concer'1ing the composition of panels of the
          courts of appeals.

    (3) 	 An amendment to 28 U.S.C. § 371 concerning
          the retirement of federal judges.
                              18



    (4) 	 A proposed new Chapter 14 to Title 28, United
          States Code, to authorize the temporary
          assignment of Article III judges to the positions
          of Director of the Administrative Office,
          Director of the Federal Judicial Center, and
          Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice,
          without loss of seniority.

    (5) 	 An amendment to 28 U.S.C. § 1631 to clarify
         authority for the transfer of an improperly filed
         case from one court to another.

    (6) 	 An amendment to 28 U.S.C. §1861 pertaining to
          interest rates on judgments and prejudgment
          interest.

      This bill is to be kept separate and distinct from the bill
to consolidate the Court of Claims and the Court of Customs
and Patent Appeals.

      Limitation on the Exercise of the Contempt Power
       The 	 views of the Conference had been requested on
H.R. 547, 96th Congress, which would amend Chapter 21 of
Title 18, United States Code, by adding a new Section 403 to
read as follows:

     The criminal and civil contempt powers of the
     courts of the United States shall not extend to
     disputes involving an officer or employee of a State,
     municipality, agency or unit of local government,
     where the officer or employee is exercising good
     faith discretion, within the scope of his office or
     employment.

       It was the view of the Committee that the bill is too
broadly drafted, is constitutionally questionable and would
make enforcement of court orders against local officials
extremely difficult. Further the Committee perceives that a
special provision applicable only to officers or employees of a
state, municipality, agency or unit of local government, would
raise questions concerning the applicability of the rule to other
individuals not specifically mentioned in the statute and would
encourage others to seek a limitation on contempt powers. An
individual should not have "discretion" to obey or refuse to
obey a court order, but should only have the right to challenge
it on the merits. Upon the recommendation of the Committee,
the Conference recommended against the enactment of the
bill.
                              19



                   Taxpayers' Bill of Rights

       S. 955, 96th Congress, is a bill to provide for the
safeguarding of taxpayer rights and for other purposes. The
bill would accomplish several objectives.          It would, for
example, require the Internal Revenue Service to provide
additional assistance to taxpayers through the creation of a
new position of Assistant Commissioner, establish new causes
of action for the violation of taxpayer rights, and authorize the
United States Tax Court to tax costs.
       It was the view of the Committee that the bill deals
generally with matters of public policy for the consideration of
the Congress and that the Judiciary should take no position
thereon. Certain provisions of the bill, however, deserve
comment. First, the provision creating a new cause of action
against an IRS employee for the violation of a constitutional
right WOUld, in the Committee'S view, generate many new
cases and have a substantial impact on the work of the
courts. Second, the Committee saw no need for the special
venue provision in Section 7403(b) which tracks tl1e general
venue statute and provides for alternate venue in the district
court for the District of Columbia. Third, the provision in
Section 7403(c) pertaining to jurisdictional amount is
unnecessary since the requirement of a jurisdictional amount in
federal question cases was abolished in the 96th Congress. In
the event the Congress requests comments from the Judiciary
on this proposal the Conference authorized the transmission of
these views to the Congress.

                United States Marshals Servic~
       The Conference in March 1980 (Conf. Rept., p. 23),
authorized the Administrative Office to pursue with the
Congress ways to improve court security. Althougl1 the
Congress has been receptive to improving services provided to
the courts by the United States Marshals Service in the area of
court security and service of civil process, the Committee
perceives that during the current fiscal yea.r, and in the next
fiscal year, there will be a serious crisis created by a lack of
funds.     Despite language in the legislative history of
Appropriation Acts directing the Department of Justice to
seek necessary funds for court security and service of process,
the Office of Management and Budget has not permitted
additional funding requests.      Since October I, 1980 the
marshals have been serving civil process without appropriated
funds by using funds available in the area of court security.
                             20



Upon the recommendation of the Committee the Conference
authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to work
with the United States Marshals Service, the Department of
Justice, the Office of Management and Budget and the new
Administration to avert a potential crisis wherein the United
States Marshals cease serving civil process and wherein court
security declines to an unacceptable level.
       The Committee further recommended that the
Conference support the Department of Justice efforts to have
the fee statute amended so that the Marshals Service, and
other process servers, may be adequately compensated for
their service to private litigants. The Committee further
recommended that the United States Marshals Service continue
to serve process in private civil litigation until satisfactory
alternate methods of service exist in all jurisdictions. These
recommendations were approved by the Conference.

        Jurisdiction of Claims by the Cherokee Nation

       H.R. 6881 and H.R. 7567, 96th Congress, are bills to
confer jurisdiction on certain courts of the United States to
hear and render judgment in connection with specified claims
against the United States by the Cherokee Nation of
Oklahoma. H.R. 6881 would confer jurisdiction upon the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Oklahoma, to hear, determine, and render judgment, under the
jurisdictional provisions of Section 2 of the Indian Claims
Commission Act of August 13, 1946, on any and all claims
which the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma has against the United
States with regard to any lands or interests therein, which
were held, or by treaty granted to such Cherokee Nation of
Oklahoma in fee simple, or otherwise. H.R. 7567 would confer
jurisdiction upon the United States Court of Claims or upon the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Oklahoma under the same section of the Indian Claims
Commission Act with respect to any claim which the Cherokee
Nation may have against the United States for any and all
damages to Cherokee tribal assets related to and arising from
construction of the Arkansas River Navigation System.

       These bills would in effect eliminate the statute of
limitations for filing claims by the Cherokee Nation against
the United States which the Indian Claims Commission Act had
authorized to be filed up to August 13, 1951. The Indian
Claims Commission has now been abolished and all remaining
                              21 




litigation is being processed through the United States Court of
Claims. Permitting the filing of additional claims would, in
the view of the Committee, impact heavily on the caseload of
the Eastern District of Oklahoma. If these bills are to be
further considered by the Congress, the Committee
recommended that exclusive jurisdiction to hear these claims
be vested in the United States Court of Claims which has
experience in these matters. Since the bills would provide for
equitable relief, the Court of Claims should be given
jurisdiction to grant such equitable relief in these cases. The
Conference approved the Committee's recommendation.

                     Interstate Compacts

       H.R. 7205 and S. 2228, 96th Congress, would grant the
consent of the United States to the Caddo Lake Compact
between the states of Louisiana and Texas concerning the use
of Caddo Lake water, and H.R. 7206, 96th Congress, would
grant the consent of the United States to the Red River
Compact among the states of Arkansas, LouiSiana, Oklahoma,
and Texas concerning the use of the water of the Red River
and its tributaries. AWlough the views of the Judiciary were
requested on both bills, final action on S. 2227, the Red River
Compact, was taken in the 96th Congress, but no final action
was taken on the Caddo Lake bills.
        It was the view of the Committee that the new
litigation authorized by the Caddo Lake Compact could now be
brought under other provisions of law, though the bill does
permit the United States to be joined in the litigation. The
Committee felt that the bill would not have a substantial
impact on the caseload of the United States courts, but there
may be an increase as a consequence of the permissive joinder
of the United States. The Conference expressed no objection
to the legislation and authorized the transmission of the views
of the Committee to the Chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee.

    Creation of a Commission on State-Federal Jurisdiction

       S. 3123, 96 t h Congress, is a bill to establish a Federal
Jurisdiction Review and Revision Commission to study the
jurisdiction of both federal and state courts. The bill was
introduced by Senator Thurmond following the remarks
contained in the address of the Chief Justice to the American
Law Institute in June 1980 suggesting the need for such a
study. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference expressed its strong support for this legislation.
                             22



            Additional Permanent Court Reporters
            for the Northern District of California

       The chief judge of the United States District Court for
the Northern District of California had requested authorization
for three additional permanent full-time "swing court
reporters" to serve three senior judges and four full-time
magistrates in that district. Judge Hunter reported that based
on current reports on the productivity of the permanent and
temporary reporters now serving the court, there is some
question as to whether existing court reporters are being fully
utilized and whether the caseload is being equally distributed
among the reporters. 'The court, however, is currently taking
steps to increase the level of productivity.         Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
one additional court reporter position for this court on a
permanent basis and authorized the reappointment of two
temporary court reporters through the end of the current fiscal
year. The Administrative Office was instructed to review the
matter further and to report to the Committee at its next
meeting.
           Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
       The Chairman of the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
Litigation requested the incorporation of certain staff attorney
positions, presently ungraded, into the graded Judiciary Salary
Schedule at stated grade levels and steps therein. The
Committee re(>ornmended arrl'l)val of this arrangement with
the understanding that these and other positions on the Panel's
staff are to be subject to the qVfllification and classification
criteria for similar positions in the Judiciary Salary Plan
administered by the Administrative Office.                  This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.

             Clerks' Offices in Bankruptcy Courts

       The Administrative Office, at the direction of the
Committee on the Budget, had conducted a comprehensive
work measurement study and had presented to the Committee
a proposed method for determining the personnel required for
the adequate staffing of the office of a clerk of a bankruptcy
court. Judge Hunter reported that the study was extremely
thorough and had been coordinated with many bankruptcy
courts and bankruptcy judges who ultimately concurred in the
use of the staffing formula recommended therein as being
                              23 




superior to the present method. Everyone agreed, however,
that the formula would require reevaluation in the near
future. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved the staffing formula developed in the
study as a basis for determining and allocating positions in the
offices of the clerks of the bankruptcy courts with the
understanding that the formula will be reevaluated in the fiscal
year 1982 or 1983.
                COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

      Judge Charles Clark, Chairman of the Com mittee on
the Budget, presented the Committee's report.

      Supplemental Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1981
       Judge Clark informed the Conference that requests for
supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year 1981 in the
amount of $30,855,000 to cover the general salary increase
granted last October, including the salary increase for judges
at the rate of 9.11 percent, had been submitted to the
Congress. In addition the Administrative Office has submitted
to the Congress a proposed program supplemental
appropriation for the fiscal year 1981 in the amount of
$616,000 to cover the cost of higher annuities for the widows
of Supreme Court Justices authorized by Public Law 96-504.
Judge Clark advised the Conference that a funding deficiency
for the fiscal year 1981 is being projected in some accounts
because of the need to absorb increases in subsistence and
mileage allowances and other uncontrollable costs. Judge
Clark stated that the Committee has asked the Director of the
Administrative Office to send a letter to all judges and
supporting personnel of the courts requesting their cooperation
in limiting expenditures for travel to what is considered
essential to the operation and maintenance of the courts.

       The Director of the Administrative Office has also
advised the Committee that due to the lack of funding it will
be necessary to defer the procurement or rental of additional
word processing equipment in the courts until the fiscal year
1982. In order to alleviate this problem the budget for the
fiscal year 1982 includes funding in the amount of $1,200,000
to purchase or rent word processing equipment for the courts
of appeals and district courts and $600,000 to acquire
equipment for the bankruptcy courts.
                              24



             Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1982

       Judge Clark stated that the budget for the fiscal year
1982 finally submitted to the Congress contained a number of
adjustments from the budget as approved by the Conference
last September. Increases in the amount of approximately $8.1
million were required because of new legislation and the
inclusion of the 9.11 percent pay increase for all judges.

                     Bankruptcy Caseload
        The Committee reported that the bankruptcy courts will
continue to operate during the fiscal year 1981 with limited
resources. The Committee anticipates that the caseload will
reach 475,000 filings this year and that it will be necessary to
continue to work with as many temporary employees as can be
accommodated with available funds. Because of the increase
in filings it was necessary to request an amendment to the
fiscal year 1981 budget in the amount of $1,200,000 to fund
120 additional temporary clerks for a nine month period.

                   Contract Court Reporters
       Judge Clark informed the Conference that the
continued use of contract court reporters at the current rate
will make it necessary to terminate or curtail the use of court
reporters during the current fiscal year. The Conference, at
the request of the Committee, thereupon restated its policy on
the utilization of full-time court reporters as follows: (1) that
prior to employing contract court reporters a court should
make every effort to fully utilize its permanent reporting staff
and (2) that the use of pooling systems for court reporters in
multi-judge courts is encouraged (Conf. Rept., Mar~ 1980, p.
20).

      Authority to Request Supplemental Appropriations

       At the request of the Committee the Conference
authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to submit
to the Congress requests for supplemental appropriations or
budget amendments for the implementation of any actions of
the Judicial Conference, new legislation, or for any reason he
considers necessary and appropriate.
                             25



               JUDICIAL ETmCS COMMITTEE

       Judge Edward A. Tamm, Chairman of the statutory
Judicial Ethics Committee, presented the report of the
Committee.
               Reporting Form and Instructions

       In accordance with section 303(c) of the Ethics in
Government Act of 1978, the Conference approved the revised
financial disclosure report form and instructions submitted by
the Committee. The Director of the Administrative Office
was requested to distribute them promptly to those individuals
required to file annual reports by May 15, 1981.

                Committee Review of Reports
       Judge Tamm reported that some judicial officers and
employees have apparently been under the impression that
financial disclosure reports are being reviewed by law clerks
employed by Committee members. Judge Tamm stated that
the reports filed with the Committee are reviewed only by the
judges who are members of the Committee and not by
members of their staffs.
                Reports by Judicial Employees
       The Ethics in Government Act of 1978 requires a
judicial employee "who receives compensation at a rate at or
in excess of the minimum rate prescribed for grade 16 of the
General Schedule" to file the prescribed financial disclosure
reports.     Congressionally imposed salary ceilings and
administratively granted cost-of-living salary adjustments,
however, have created uncertainty about who is required to
file reports. The Committee reported that it has adopted the
policy that a judicial employee who receives compensation at
the minimum rate of pay currently being received by an
employee in grade 16 of the General Schedule must file
disclosure reports. For this purpose, cost-of-living allowances
administratively granted are compensation.           Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
this policy.
                               26



                  Federal Income Tax Returns

       In a previous report the Committee informed the
Conference that it had rejected a request that an income tax
return be filed in lieu of a financial disclosure report, since the
income tax return does not contain all the information required
to be disclosed by the Act. Judge 'l'amm informed the
Conference that the Committee has further considered this
policy and has decided that it should not accept an income tax
return, or any part of an income tax return, as a substitute for
reporting requirements. Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference approved this policy.

                  Reports to Circuit Councils

       The Committee reported that it would in the future
consider referring matters concerning the nonfiling of reports
to circuit councils under the Judicial Councils Reform and
Judicial Conduct and Disabilitv Act of 1980. It was the view
of the Conference that the procedure prescribed by this new
Act should not be used for this purpose.


      ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

    Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the Advisory
Committee on Codes of Conduct, presented the report of the
Committee.
                  Activities of the Committee

        Judge Marl{ey reported that since its last report to the
Conference the Committee has received 15 inquiries from
persons subject to the various codes of conduct.            The
Committee has completed action on 11 inquiries and is
currently processing the remainder. In the last six months the
Committee has published the four advisory opinions referred to
in its last report and has approved the publication of one other
advisory opinion clarifying a previous opinion.

                      Membership in Clubs

       In accordance with the previous instructions of the
Conference (Conf. Rept., Sept. 1980, p.79), the Committee
had circulated to every federal judge for comment a proposed
commentary to Canon 2 pertaining to membership in clubs.
                              27 



After considering the survey responses, the many valid
concerns expressed therein, and various alternative proposed
commentaries, the Committee recommended the approval of
the following additional commentary to Canon 2 which, after
full discussion, was approved by the Conference:

     The Judicial Conference of the United States has
     endorsed the principle that it is inappropriate for a
     judge to hold membership in any organization that
     practices invidious discrimination. A judge should
     carefully consider whether the judge's membership
     in a particular organization might reasonably raise a
     question of the judge's impartiality in a case
     involving issues as to discriminatory treatment of
     persons on the basis of race, sex, religion, or
     national origin. The question whether a particular
     organization practices invidious discrimination is
     often complex and not capable of being determined
     from a mere examination of its membership ron.
     Judges as well as others have rights of privacy and
     association. Although each judge must always be
     alert to the question, it must ultimately be
     determined by the conscience of the individual
     judge whether membership in a particular
     organization is incompatible with the duties of the
     judicial office.
    Model Codes of Conduct for Various JUdicial Employees

        Canon 4 of the Codes of Conduct for Clerks, Probation
Officers, Circuit Executives, Staff Attorneys, and Public
Defenders permits participation in "quasi-official" activities;
Canon 5 permits participation in "extra-official" activities; and
Canon 6 permits receipt of reasonable compensation for both
"quaSi-official" and "extra-official" activities. It was brought
to the Committee'S attention that the phrase "quasi-official"
creates the impression that regular salaries may be
supplemented from outside sources for the performance of
duties that are already compensated from public funds. Upon
the recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
amended Canon 4 of these Codes by substituting "law-related"
for "quasi-official!! and directed that the caption and text of
Canon 6 be amended by substituting the phrase "all extra­
official activities" for the phrase "quasi-official and extra­
official activities." In addition the Conference approved the
                             28



addition of the following language to Canon 6 in each of these
codes:

     Notwithstanding the above, a [clerk, probation
     officer, etc.] shall not receive any salary, or any
     supplementation of salary, as compensation for his
     official services from any source other than the
     Government of the United States.

               Code of Conduct for Law Clerks

       The Committee submitted a Code of Conduct for Law
Clerks which is modeled after those adopted by the Conference
for other officers and employees of the Judiciary. Upon
recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
the Code for Law Clerks as submitted.


      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
           FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

      The report of the Committee on the Administration of
the Federal Magistrates System was presented by the
Chairman, Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jr.

                    Salaries of Magistrates

         Judge Skopil pointed out that the Conference has
consistently endorsed the principle of parity in the salaries of
Unitetj States Magistrates and United States Bankruptcy
Judges, as authorized by 28 U .S.C. 634(a). A full-time
bankruptcy judge now receives a salary of $53,500 per annum
which will be increased to $58,400 per annum (the tlformula
rate!!) if the restriction imposed by Congress on the payment of
the October 1980 cost-of-living increase is removed. In order
to restore parity in compensation the Committee
recommended that the Conference set both the tlformula rate"
and the actual payable salary of a full-time magistrate now
receiving $51,900 at the same level authorized by law for a
full-time bankruptcy judge. This shall not necessarily apply in
special situations such as national parks. The Committee
further recommended that the maximum salary rate for a part­
time magistrate be increased to $29,200, !!formula rate,n and
to $26,750 actual payable salary. These recommendations
were approved by the Conference subject to the availability of
appropriated funds.
                              29


       Qualification Standards and Selection Procedures

       The Committee pointed out that the regulations for the
selection and appointment of magistrates promulgated by the
Conference in March 1980 (Conf. Rept., p. 32) impose a more
stringent age requirement for appointment than required by
statute. The Federal Magistrates Act provides that "No
individual may serve under this chapter after having attained
the age of 70 years." Section 1.0I(e) of the regulations,
however, requires that "In the case of an initial appointment
[nominees] will not reach the age of 70 years before the
expiration of the term of appointment."             Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference deleted
§ 1.0I(e) of the regulations and directed that the statutory
requirement be inserted in its place.

              Attendance at Circuit Conferences

       In September 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 43) the Conference
authorized the payment of the expenses of a "representative
group" of magistrates, referees in bankruptcy and public
defenders to attend their respective circuit conferences. In
some circuits most, or all, full-time magistrates are invited by
the chief judge of the circuit to attend the circuit
conference.    Many magistrates must bear the expense of
attendance since under the current authorization only one full­
time magistrate from each district may be reimbursed for
travel expenses.

        Upon the Committee's recommendation the Conference
authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to
reimburse the travel and per diem expenses of any magistrate
who has been invited by the chief judge of the circuit to attend
the circuit conference in accordance with the applicable travel
regula ti ons.

               Changes in 'V1agistrate Positions

       After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts and the judicial councils of the
circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
magistrate positions. Unless otherwise indicated these changes
are to become effective when appropriated funds are
available. The salaries of full-time magistrate positions are to
                              30 



be determined in accordance with the salary plan previously
adopted by the Conference.

                       FIRST CIRCUIT

Maine

   (0     Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Portland for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $15,500 p er annum.

                      SECOND CIRCUIT

Northern District of New York

   0) 	 Converted     the part-time magistrate position at
          Albany to a full-time magistrate position.

    (2) 	 Discontinued the combination clerk-magistrate
          position at Albany upon the appointment of a full­
          time magistrate at Albany.

    (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Troy,
          which is due to expire on October 25, 1981, for an
          additional term of office at the currently authorized
          salary of $900 per annum, or until such time as a full­
          time magistrate is appointed at Albany.

Vermont

    0) 	 Converted     the part-time magistrate position at
          Burlington to a full-time magistrate position.

    (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate posi tions at
          St. Albans, Newport and Rutland, effective upon the
          appointment of a full-time magistrate at Burlington.

                       THIRD CIRCUIT

New Jersey

    (1) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate position at
          Asbury Park for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $17,900 per annum.
                               31



Middle District of Pennsylvania

    (1) 	 Continued     the full-time magistrate position at
            Wilkes-Barre for an additional eight-year term.

Virgin Islands

    (1) 	   Authorized the bankruptcy judge at Christiansted to
            perform the duties of a part-time magistrate for an
            additional four-year term at the currently authorized
            salary of $20,300 per annum for magistrate duties.

                        FOURTH CIRCUIT

Maryland

    (1) 	 Continued      the full-time magistrate position at
            Baltimore, which is due to expire on October 9, 1981,
            for an additional eight-year term.

South Carolina

    (1) 	 Continued     the full-time magistrate position at
            Columbia, for an additional eight-year term.

Eastern District of Virginia

    (I) 	 Converted     the part-time magistrate position at
            Williamsburg to a full-time magistrate position.

Western District of Virginia

    (1) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
            Abingdon to a full-time magistrate position.

    (2) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at
            Shenandoah National Park, Lynchburg and Danville,
            effective upon the appointment of a full-time
            magistrate at Abingdon.

                         FIFTH CIRCUIT

Southern District of Alabama

    (I) 	 Authorized a second full-time magistrate position at
            Mobile.
                               32



Southern District of Florida

    (1) 	 Authorized a fourth full-time magistrate position at
         Miami.

Eastern District of Texas

    (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at
         Beaumont for an additional eight-year term.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Sherman for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $10,000 per annum.

                       SIXTH CIRCUIT

Eastern District of Michigan

    0) 	 Authorized the bankruptcy judge at Bay City to
         perform the duties of a part-time magistrate for an
         additional four-year term at the currently authorized
         salary of $24,250 per annum for magistrate duties.
Western District of Michigan
    (1) 	 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Grand
          Rapids, which is due to expire on September 30, 1981,
          for an additional eight-year term.
                      SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Southern District of Indiana

    0)    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
          Indianapolis, which is due to expire on September 30,
          1981, for an additional eight-year term.
                       EIGHTH CIRCUIT

South Dakota

    (1) 	 Ratified the action of the Executive Committee last
          November converting the part-time magistrate
          position at Sioux Falls to a combination clerk­
          magistrate position pending further review.
                             33 




   (2) 	 Converted the combination clerk-magistrate position
         at Sioux Falls to a part-time magistrate position at a
         salary of $8,200 per anum.

                       NINTH CIRCUIT

Arizona

   (1) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate position at
          Kingman for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $2,700 per annum.
          Upon the expiration of the current term of the
          incumbent, the position should not be filled without
          the approval of the circuit council and the Director
          of the Administrative Office.

   (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
         position at Flagstaff from $3,600 to $4,500 per
         annum.

Hawaii

   (1) 	 Continued    the part-time magistrate position at
          Honolulu for an additional four-year term.

   (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
         position at Honolulu from $3,600 to $8,200 per
         annum.
Oregon
   (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Bend from $900 to $1,800 per annum.

   (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
         position at Pendleton from $900 to $2,700 per annum.

   (3) 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
         Klamath Falls upon the expiration of the current
         term of the incumbent.

Western District of Washington

   0) 	 Continued      the full-time magistrate position at
          Seattle, which is due to expire on September 30,
          1981, for an additional eight-year term.
                              34



                       TENTH CIRCUIT

Western District of Oklahoma

   0) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at
          Oklahoma City at a salary of $15,500 per annum.

   (2) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at
         Enid at a salary of $2,700 per annum.

   (3) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Altus
         for an additional four-year term.

   (4) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
         position at Altus from $900 to $2,700 per annum.

Wyoming

   (I) 	 Converted     the part-time magistrate position at
          Yellowstone National Park to a full-time magistrate
          position at a salary of $29,000 per annum.


     COMMrITEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
              BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

       Judge Robert E. DeMascio, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System, presented the
Committee's report.
             Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges

       The Conference upon the recommendation of the
Committee took the following action with respect to changes
in arrangements for bankruptcy judges. These changes are
subject to the availability of new facilities.

                       FOURTH CIRCUIT

District of Maryland

    (1) 	 Changed the headquarters office of the bankruptcy
          judge at Hyattsville from Hyattsville to Rockville.

    (2) 	 Discontinued Hyattsville as a place of holding
          bankruptcy court.
                               35



                       SIXTH CIRCUIT

Eastern District of Kentucky

    0) 	 Designated Corbin and discontinued London as a
         place of holding court in this district.

      Charges for the Referees' Salary and Expense Fund

       Judge DeMascio reported that the Committee had
received requests from debtors' attorneys in three cases filed
under the Bankruptcy Act to reduce or exclude the payment of
charges for the Referees' Salary and Expense Fund. The
Committee noted that, heretofore, the Conference has not
approved any special requests or exceptions in the payment of
these charges. Upon the recommendation of the Committee
the Conference disapproved these requests.

         Attendance of Debtors at Discharge Hearings

       The Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. 524(d), requires the
attendance of all individual debtors at a hearing before a
bankruptcy judge after a decision has been made with respect
to granting a discharge. The appearance enables the Court to
discharge its responsibilities under this section in the event a
debtor desires to reaffirm a debt. The Committee feels,
however, that it is costly and inconvenient for an individual
who does not wish to reaffirm a debt to attend a discharge
hearing. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference recommended that the Bankruptcy Code be
amended to eliminate the requirement that debtors must
attend discharge hearings when they do not wish to reaffirm
their debts.


      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                 PROBATION SYSTEM

      The report of the Committee on the Administration of
the Probation System was presented by the Chairman, Judge
Gerald B. Tjoflat.

                     Sentencing Institutes

       The Committee submitted to the Conference a
tentative agenda for a joint institute on sentencing for the
                             36



judges of the Second Circuit to be held November 12-13, 1981
in the vicinity of the Federal Correctional Institution at
Otisville, New York. The Conference approved the time,
place, participants, nnd tentative agenda for the institute.

       Judge Tjoflat informed the Conference that a joint
sentencing institute for the judges of the Eighth and Tenth
Circuits to be held at the Medical Center for Federal Prisoners
at Springfield, Missouri during the spring of 1982 is now being
planned.- The Committee will advise the Conference as the
details are further developed.

                  Pretrial Services Agencies

        The Conference in "farch 1980 (Conf. Rept., p. 29)
adopted a resolution recommending the continued funding and
expansion of the pretrial services operation in accordance with
the procedures outlined in the resolution.           Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference reaffirmed
this resolution.

                 Narcotic Aftercare Program

       The contract authority for aftercare services for drug
dependent Federal offenders was transferred from the Bureau
of Prisons to the Director of the Administrative Office by the
Contract Services for Drug Dependent Federal Officers Act of
1978, effective October 1, 1979. The Act authorized the
appropriation of funds only for the fiscal years 1980, 1981 and
1982.   The authorization to request funds will expire on
September 30, 1982.

       Judge Tjoflat informed the Conference that the Act has
enabled the Federal Probation System to use contracts to
expand the range and intensity of special supervision services
to drug dependent persons on probation or parole.         The
Committee is convinced that the Act provides a valuable and
necessary resource for the Federal Probation System in
discharging its supervision resDonsi':Jilities and should be
continueo. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved a draft bill to authorize continued
funding authority for this program in an amount to be
determined by the appropriations process and authorized its
transm ission to the Congress.
                               37


                      Probation Personnel

       The Committee informed the Conference at its
September 1980 Session (Conf. Rept., p. 86) that the House
Committee on Appropriations had denied a request for 175
additional deputy clerks for the fiscal year 1981 and had
suggested that "the needs of the respective clerks' offices can
be met through a reprogramming of positions from probation
offices to clerks' offices." Thereafter the Director of the
Administrative Office, with the approval of the House and
Senate Appropriations Committees, established the 175 deputy
clerk positions with the understanding that during the fiscal
years 1981 and 1982, 70 probation officer positions and 45
probation clerk positions would be abolished through attrition.

       Judge Tjoflat informed the Conference that the
Probation Division of the Administrative Office has been
reviewing each probation position vacancy as it occurs to
determine if it should be filled, transferred to another district,
or abolished. As of January 31, 1981, 12 probation officer
positions and 8 probation clerk positions had been abolished.
       To meet probation workload imbalances the Probation
Division has initiated a program to promote and support the
voluntary transfer of probation officers from districts
substantially    overstaffed    to    districts   substantially
understaffed.    Chief judges in ten district courts have
permitted the Administrative Office to advertise to the staff
of their probation offices the opportunity to apply for a
transfer at government expense to one of six other districts
which are understaffed and which have agreed to give first
consideration to these officers for appointment. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference endorsed
this program of voluntary transfer of probation officer
positions to meet imbalances in probation workload.


      COM~EONTHEADMmmTRATIONOFTHE
                        CRIMINAL LAW

       Judge Alexander Harvey ll, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Criminal Law, presented the
report of the Committee.
                              38


                 Speedy Trial Act Guidelines

       Since 1975 the Committee with the approval of the
Conference has issued Guidelines on the Administration of the
Speedy Trial Act of 1974. These Guidelines were recently
revised and supplemented by the Committee as a result of the
enactment of the Speedy Trial Act Amendments Act of 1979,
which became fully effective on July 1, 1980. Judge Harvey
reported that the Committee had considered whether to
continue to issue national Guidelines, particularly in view of
the amendment to 18 U.S.C. 3166(f) which authorizes the
judicial councils of the circuits to promulgate Guidelines under
the Act, and had concluded that national Guidelines still serve
a useful purpose. The Conference thereupon authorized the
Committee to continue to issue revisions and amendments to
the Speedy Trial Act Guidelines as it has done in the past.

            Amendments to the Speedy Trial Act
       Recommended by the General Accounting Office

       Judge Harvey reported that the Committee had
considered a recent report of the General Accounting Office
recommending a clarification of the Speedy Trial Act to
resolve conflicting interpretations of some provisions by the
Executive and JUdicial Branches of the Government. The
General Accounting Office specifically recommended
amendments to clarify (I) how and under what circumstances
pre-indictment dismissals, followed by an indictment, affect
the time interval from arrest to indictment; (2) the starting
date for the time interval from indictment to trial; (3) the
computation of the 30-day minimum period before trial; and (4)
whether defense waivers of the time limits in advance of their
expiration are allowable. It was the view of the Committee,
however,that any further amendments to the Speedy Trial Act
should be deferred until more experience has been gained with
its administration, particularly since it is now fully effective.
The Committee was satisfied that the present Guidelines
issued by the Committee adequately deal with the problems
raised in the report.      Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference disapproved the recommendations
of the General Accounting Office and recommended that
further amendments to the Act be deferred by Congress until
additional experience in the administration of the Act is
obtained and specific recommendations for amendments are
made by the Conference to the Congress.
                              39



          Speedy Trial Act Reporting Requirements

        Judge Harvey advised the Conference that the
Committee had authorized the Director of the Administrative
Office to discontinue the practice of requiring clerks of court
to report every instance of excludable delay in a criminal case
in favor of a system of reporting the details of excludable
delay only in cases in which time limits have not been met.
While the compilation of this information was useful during the
transition years, the Committee believed that such detailed
reporting was no longer useful or necessary.

       The Committee was directed to consider whether the
provision of the Speedy Trial Act which sets a minimum 3~-day
period for the setting of a criminal trial should be repealed and
to report its recommendations to the Conference at its next
session.


 COMMfITEE ON THE OPERATION OF THE JURY SYSTEM

    Chief Judge C. Clyde Atkins, Chairman of the
Committee on the Operation of the Jury System, presented the
Committee's report.

              Secrecy of Grand Jury Proceedings

       Judge Atkins informed the Conference that a
subcommittee appointed to review the recent report of the
General Accounting Office pertaining to the secrecy of grand
jury proceedings (Conf.Rept., Sept. 1980, p. 108) had submitted
its report. After full discussion, the Conference adopted the
following recommendations:       0) that the district courts
reexamine their jury selection plans, in conformity with 28
V.S.C. 1863 (b)(7), to consider whether the names of grand
jurors should be excluded from public records, except upon
order of the courtj (2) that there be no institutionalized
procedure for the advance screening of grand jurors by the
prosecution, although government attorneys may move for the
exclusion of a juror as authorized under 28 V.S.C. 1866(c)(2)j
and (3) that the district courts treat all subpoenas, motions,
pleadings, and other documents filed with the clerk concerning
or contesting grand jury proceedings as permanently sealed
documents, except on court order based upon a showing of need
after indictments have been returned or the grand jury business
has been concluded. The Conference further called attention
                             40 




to the traditional rule of professional conduct that the
prosecution should not make public statements about the
oroceedings before the grand jury, permit documents to be
released or permit others in its employ to make statements
concerning such proceedings. The Conference authorized the
communication of these recommendations to 111 district
judges, to the General Accountin!5 Office, to the Depart ment
of cTustice and to the approDriate Committees of the Congress.

                ComDlex Criminal Jury Cases

        The Conference upon the recommendation of the
Com mittee authorized a 'ltudy of the techniques of managing a
jury trial in a complicated criminal case. The study is to be
performed by a subcommittee representing the Jury
Committee and the Committee on the Administration of the
Criminal Law and is to be coordinated with the work of the
Court Administration subcommittee examining" alternatives to
jury trials in complex civil cases.


       COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCurr ASSIGNMENTS

       The written report of the Committee on Intercircuit
A&'lignments, submitted by the Chairman, Senior Judge George
L. Hart, Jr., was received by the Conference.

       During the period August 15, 1980 to February 15, 1981
the Committee recommended 63 assignments to be undertaken
by 47 judges. Of this number eight were senior circuit judges,
seven were active circuit judges, one was a senior judge of the
Court of Claims, one was an active judge of the Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals, two were active judges of the
Court of Claims, 18 were senior district judges, three were
active district judges, four were active judges of the Court of
International Trade and three were active judges of the
bankruptcy courts.

       Thirty-three judges undertook 45 assignments to the
courts of appeals and 12 judges undertook 14 assignments to the
district courts. In addition one senior judge of the Court of
Claims was assigned to the Court of Customs and Patent
Appeals and three active bankruptcy judges 'Nere assigned to
perform duties in bankruptcy courts outside their circuits.
                             41



 COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

      The written report of the Committee on Rules of
Practice and Procedure, submitted by the Committee
Chairman, Judge Edward T. Gignoux, was received by the
Conference.

                       Criminal Rules

       The Advisory Committee on Criminal Rules met in
January and is scheduled to meet once again this year to
complete its work on drafts of amendments to rules which are
then to be circulated to the bench and bar for comment. It is
not anticipated that any amendments will be ready for
submission to the Conference until September 1982.

                      Bankruptcy Rules

       The Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules met in
October and November last year and is scheduled to meet
again during March and April this year. The work of preparing
new rules under the bankruptcy code is progressing
satisfactorily, but because of the magnitude of the task the
submission of rules to the bench and bar for comment will not
occur before 1982. During the current fiscal year the Advisory
Committee will be holding as many meetings to consider draft
rules as limited available travel funds will permit.



       The Advisory Committee on Civil Rules met in
December 1980 and is scheduled to meet again in April 1981.
The Committee is considering a revision of the rules relating
to pretrial procedure and is reviewing the discovery rules in
the light of suggestions made since the last amendments were
approved. New draft amendments are expected to be ready for
circulation to the bench and bar for comment later this year.

                       Appellate Rules

       The Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules met in
December 1980 and is tentatively scheduled to meet again
before the end of the current fiscal year. The Committee is in
the early stages of reviewing various proposals to amend the
Appellate Rules and is considering, among other problems, the
matter of the costs of appeal, especially in the printing of
appellate records.
                             42 




          COMMITTEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES

       The written report of the Committee on Pacific
Territories, chaired by Judge Richard H. Chambers, was
received by the Conference.

        The report advised the Conference on the progress of a
bill, H.R. 8030, 96th Congress, which would establish a type of
diversity jurisdiction in the District of Guam; the continued
participation of judges of the Ninth Circuit in the hearing of
appeals in the High Court of American Samoa; and the
negotiations between the United States and the people of the
Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands concerning their future
political status.


 COMMITTEE ON THE BICENTENNIAL OF INDEPENDENCE

       A written report of the Committee on the Bicentennial
of Independence, chaired by Judge Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr.,
was received by the Conference. The report indicated that the
National Audio/Visual Center has reported sales of 524
bicentennial films since September 1977, about 60 percent to
colleges and universities. Although the Center does not report
on total resales, it has stated that rentals have been brisk
during those months in which schools are in session. The
gathering of information through questionnaires to newly
appointed judges and others continues and the Committee will
in the future present a plan for the preparation of a second
edition of the biographical directory. "Circuit histories"
continue in various stages of preparation in seven of the eleven
circuits.

       As of January 31, 1981 a balance of approximately
$916,509 remained in the appropriation for bicentennial
programs.


           IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEE ON 

    ADMISSION OF ATTORNEYS TO FEDERAL PRACTICE 


       Judge James Lawrence King, Chairman of the
Implementation Committee on Admission of Attorneys to
Federal Practice, presented a written report on the activities
of the Committee.
                             43 



                                        i
       Following the last session of· the Conference the
members of the Committee attended in a seminar for judges
representing the district courts participating in the pilot
program on federal attorney admission standards.              A
substantial portion of this seminar was devoted to receiving
reports from the judges overseeing the pilot programs as to the
status of their plans and the attitude of the judges and local
bar on the prospects for the program. Progress thus far on the
development of the program has been satisfactory.

       The report also indicated that the Federal Judicial
Center is planning to survey each of the 14 pilot districts in
order to record the progress to date in implementing new rules
and procedures on the admission of attorneys. In addition Mr.
Irving Younger, former professor of law at Cornell, is working
to enlist the participation of law schools and law school
faculties in all phases of the pilot program. Several members
of the Committee have participated in an ALI-ABA continuing
education program discussing the evaluation of peer review
systems. The Committee further reported that the Ninth
Circuit JUdicial Council has formed a circuitwide committee
to consider the ultimate adoption of federal attorney admission
standards in every district court within the circuit.
COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT

       Senior Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the
Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented
the report of the Committee.
                 Appointments and Payments
        The Conference authorized the Director of the
Administrative Office to distribute copies of the report of
appointments and payments under the Criminal Justice Act for
the fiscal year 1980, October I, 1979 to September 30, 1980, to
all chief judges, all Federal defender organizations, and to
others who may request copies. The report indicated that
$26,000,000 was appropriated for the implementation of the
Act during the fiscal year 1980 and that the projected
obligations are $24,052,000. During the year approximately
42,000 persons were represented under the Criminal Justice
Act, compared to approximately 42,800 persons during the
fiscal year 1979, a decrease of 1.9 percent.
                             44 



       Federal public defender organizations represented
13,924 persons during the year and community defender
organizations represented 7,468 persons. Collectively, these
defender organizations accounted for 50.9 percent of the total
representations under the Act, compared with 48.3 percent in
the fiscal year 1979 and 45.7 percent during the fiscal year
1978.
       The report further indicated that the average cost of
representation under the Criminal Justice Act by all Federal
defender organizations during the fiscal year 1980 was $627
per case compared with $529 per case during the fiscal year
1979, an increase of 18.5 percent. The cost of representation
by private panel attorneys during the year was $499 per case
compared with $489 per case during 1979, an increase of 2
percent.

     Grant Requests-Community Defender Organizations

       At its session in September 1979 (Conf.Rept., p. 99), the
Conference approved sustaining grants for seven community
defender organizations for the fiscal year 1981. Since that
time there have been two cost-of-living pay increases
authorized for all Federal employees. Consistent with the
policy of maintaining comparability between Federal public
and community defender organizations, each community
defender organization has been authorized to provide cost-of­
living pay increases to its employees to the same extent as
those provided to Federal employees.                Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
supplemental sustaining grants to community defender
organizations for the fiscal year 1981 as follows:
    Federal Defenders of San Diego, Inc.             $ 79,643
    Federal Defender Program, Inc. ­
      Atlanta, Georgia                                  31,229

    Federal Defender Program, Inc. ­
      Chicago, Illinois                                 24,922
    Federal Defender Division, Legal Aid and
      Defender Assn. of Detroit, Michigan               56,485

    Federal Defender Services Unit of the
      Legal Aid Society of New York                    119,753
                             45



    Federal Defender, Inc.
      Portland, Oregon                                 10,083

    Federal Court Division of the Defender
      Assn. of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania              11,939

     Total Cost of Living Adjustments:               $334,054

       The Conference also authorized a supplemental grant to
the Federal Defenders of San Diego, Inc. in the amount of
$99,607 to establish one additional secretarial position, to
acquire word processing equipment and to cover the
Organization's cost of an employees' pension plan that was
authorized after the Conference had approved the fiscal year
1981 sustaining grant. The acquisi tion of word processing
equipment will be subject to the approval of the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts.

       The Conference also approved a supplemental grant to
the New York Legal Aid Society in the amount of $11,452 for
the renovation and improvement of the offices of the Federal
Defender Services Unit in Manhattan.

         Budget Requests - Federal Public Defenders

       The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved supplemental funding for the Federal
Public Defender for the Northern District of California for the
fiscal year 1981, in the amount of $42,221. These funds are to
be used to add one permanent paralegal specialist position to
the San Jose branch office, one temporary paralegal position to
the San Francisco office, and for the acquisition of word
processing equipment. The acquisition of word processing
equipment will be subject to the approval of the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts.

        The Conference also approved supplemental funding for
the Federal Public Defender for the Southern District of
Florida for the fiscal year 1981, in the amount of $117,247.
These funds are to be used to increase the staff of the office
by adding three attorneys, one investigator, one secretary and
one bilingual clerical assistant, and for the replacement of
furniture, furnishings and equipment. The actual hiring of one
of the three attorneys, the secretary and the investigator are
subject to approval by the Administrative Office after a
review and evaluation of the changing situation and conditions
in this distric t.
                             46



      Additional Funding for Defender Office Operations
       The Conference in March 1977 (Conf.Rept., p. 34)
authorized the Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts to increase the budget of a Federal public
defender office, and approve supplemental grants for
community defender organizations, to the extent necessary to
cover cost-of-living pay increases and other unforeseen or
unanticipated expenses provided that such additional funds
shall not exceed 15 percent of the amount previously approved
by the Conference. The comparability increases in salaries
granted to Federal employees in October 1979 and October
1980, however, aggregated more than 17 percent. These
increases were not reflected in the budgets and grants
approved by the Conference in September 1979 for the
operation of these offices during t he fiscal year 1981 and were
in excess of the authority granted to the Director of the
Administrative Office to increase the amounts approved by
the Conference. Upon the recommendation of the Committee,
the Conference approved the following revised resolution:
    That the Director of the Administrative Office is
    authorized to increase the budget of a Federal Public
    Defender office and approve supplemental grant
    funds for Community Defender Organizations to the
    extent necessary to cover general (cost-of-living) pay
    increases comparable to those provided to Federal
    employees; and in addition, the Director is authorized
    to increase the budgets of Federal Public Defender
    offices and approve supplemental grant funds for
    Community Defender Organizations for unforeseen or
    unanticipated expenses, provided such additional
    authority shall not exceed 15 percent of the amount
    approved by the Judicial Conference for each such
    office or organization.

                   Payment of Witness Fees

      The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved an amendment to 28 U.S.C. 1825 to
authorize Federal public defenders and certain other counsel
appointed under the Criminal Justice Act to certify the
payment of witness fees for defense witnesses. The Director
of the Administrative Office was authorized to transmit the
proposal to the Congress.
                             47



  Revision and Consolidation of Criminal Justice Act Forms
       The Criminal Justice Act, 18 U.S.C. 3006(A)(c) and (f),
authorizes the court to terminate the appointment of counsel
and order payment, or partial payment to be made by a
defendant found to be financially able to obtain counsel for
representation provided under the Act. At the present time
there are two printed forms for use by the court in entering
these orders, CJA Form 6 and CJA Form 7. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee, the Conference approved
the consolidation of these two forms into a revised CJA Form
7, and authorized the printing and distribution of the new
form.    The Conference also approved an amendment to
paragraph 2.17 of the Criminal Justice Act Guidelines
pertaining to the use of the new form.

            Revisions to the Criminal Justice Act

        Judge MacBride poinb~d out that the Criminal Justice
Act has not been amended or revised since 1970. In the past 10
years the Committee has received many recommendations for
further revisions which are intended to update and streamline
the Act and improve its implementation and operation. One
significant recommendation was an amendment to authorize
the Judicial Conference of the United States to establish the
maximum hourly rates of compensation to be paid to attorneys
appointed under the Act. This recommendation and other
proposed amendments to the Act were incorporated in a draft
bill, submitted by the Committee, entitled, "Criminal Justice
Act Revision of 1981." Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference approved the draft bill and
authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to
transmit it to the Congress.       The Conference, however,
requested that, at its next meeting, the Committee review the
question of whether the Act should be further amended to
provide immunity to Federal defenders and other attorneys
providing representation under the Act.

  Community Defender Organizations - Conditions of Grant

       Judge MacBride informed the Conference that several
problems relating to the financial record keeping practices of
community defender organizations continue to pose difficulties
for the Administrative Office in discharging its financial
oversight responsibilities. The Committee believed that these
problems could be overcome through the establishment of
                              48 




uniform methods of accounting and auditing expenditures of
grant funds, and the development of a standard form, or set of
forms, that all community defender organizations would be
required to use in connection with their annual audits. Upon
the recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
amended clauses 7 and 8 of the Community Defender
Organization Grant and Conditions to read as follows:

    7.    FIN ANCIAL AND OTHER RECORDS:                The
    Grantee shall keep financial books and records in
    accordance with the federal fiscal year unless a
    waiver is granted by the Administrative Office. Such
    records shall fully disclose the amount and disposition
    of grant and grant-related income and the total cost
    of the program for which the grant is awarded. The
    Grantee's records shall be maintained in such manner
    as required by the Administrative Office. The record
    keeping procedures utilized by the Grantee shall
    provide for the accurate and timely recordation and
    determination of all income and funds received, all
    expenditures, and unexpended grant funds, grant
    interest, and grant-related income balances.          In
    addition, the Grantee shall maintain the records in
    such a manner as to permit the determination of the
    propriety of all expenditures of grant funds and the
    charges to specific object classifications.        The
    Administrative Office may inspect the financial
    records, bank statements, and other records related
    to the expenditure of grant funds, except client
    records and files, at any reasonable time upon
    request.      If, because of inadequate records,
    documentation, or explanation the propriety of an
    expenditure      cannot    readily   be    determined,
    questionable costs and expenditures may be
    disallowed. The Grantee must keep financial records
    for a period of three years after the expiration of the
    fiscal year for which the grant was awarded unless
    otherwise authorized by the Administrative Office.

          The Grantee shall maintain and submit such
    periodic statistical records and reports as may be
    required by the Administrative Office.

    8. AUDITS: The Grantee shall submit, within 75
    days of the end of each fiscal year, a certified audit
    of the statement of financial position to be included
                             49



    in the annual report of Grantee operations for the
    fiscal year for which the grant was awarded. The
    audit must be performed in accordance with
    generally accepted auditing standards by a Certified
    Public Accountant of the Grantee's choosing. The
    audit should be a systematic review to determine
    whether financial operations have been properly
    conducted. The audit must set forth expenditures in
    accordance with the designated object classifications
    contained in the approved grant, and must verify that
    grant funds, and grant-related income, were in fact
    properly expended in accordance with those object
    classifications. In submitting the audit, the Grantee
    shall use such form or forms as are promulgated by
    the Administrative Office. Unless waived by the
    Administrative Office Grantee audits must be
    performed according to the federal fiscal year.

       The Committee furthE~r pointed out that sustaining
grants must, of necessity, be approved subject to the
availability of appropriated funds. To prevent any future
misunderstanding, the Conference, upon the recommendation
of the Committee, amended the fourth paragraph of the
Community Defender Organization Grant and Conditions to
read as follows:

    The Conference has approved, subject to the
    availability of appropriated funds, a grant in the
    amount of $                for fiscal year       , as
    further detailed by object classifications contained
    in attachment (1), commencing on October 1, 19-,
    and terminating on September 30, 19_; and ...

       Federal Public Defender - Ft. Smith, Arkansas
       The Conference authorized the Director of the
Administrative Office to provide necessary supplemental
funding during the fiscal year 1981 to the Federal Public
Defender for the Western District of Missouri to cover the cost
of establishing and operating a branch office at Ft. Smith,
Arkansas to resolve problems arising from the program of
resettling approximately 5,000 Cuban refugees now located at
Ft. Chaffee, Arkansas.
                              50



PRETERMISSION OF TERMS OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS

       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the
pretermission of terms of the United States Court of Appeals
for the Tenth Circuit at Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and
Wichita, Kansas during the calendar year 1981.           The
Conference also approved the pretermission of a June 1981
term of the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit at
Asheville, North Carolina.

                          ELECTIONS

        The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 621(a)(2), elected
Judge Cornelia G. Kennedy to membership on the Board of the
Federal Judicial Center for a term of four years succeeding
Judge John C. Godbold whose term expires on March 28,
1981. The Conference also elected Judge John D. Butzner, Jr.
to membership on the Board of the Federal JUdicial Center to
fill the unexpired term of Judge William H. Mulligan who has
resigned.
       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 332(f), reelected
Judge George E. MacKinnon to membership on the Board of
Certification for Circuit Executives for a term of three years,
until July 1, 1984.
                        RESOLUTIONS

      On motion of Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., the
Conference adopted the following resolution:
    Whereas, Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr., Chief Judge of
    the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth
    Circuit, has announced his intention to avail himself
    of the right to take senior status, which will preclude
    his membership in this Conference; a membership
    which incidentally has been of longer service than
    that of any other judge in recent time - 17 years;

          It is therefore Resolved that:

          His service both as an active judge of the
    United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth
    Circuit and as a member of this Conference has
    contributed immeasurably to the administration of
    justice, and while his keen perception, wise counsel
   and gentle but firm manner will be sorely missed at
   future sessions of this Conference, it is the pleasure
   and privilege of the Conference by this resolution to
   acknowledge on behalf of the judiciary of the United
   States our deep appreciation for Judge Haynsworth's
   many contributions, and to express to him the best
   wishes of his fellow judges, as well as our grateful
   appreciation of the fact that while he will be in
   senior status, his past accomplishments belie any
   suggestion     that   !-Jis  contributions    to    the
   administration of justice will diminish in even the
   slightest degree. He leaves this Conference and its
   members with its and their sincere thanks, warm
   personal regards, and hopefully with the knowledge
   that his contributions to the administration of justice
   are indelible.

         We wish to publicly express that those of us who
   have had the honor and privilege of serving with him
   on the Judicial Conference of the United States take
   solace in the fact that his contributions will continue
   as a senior circuit judge.

       We do hereby express our sincere appreciation,
   warm affection and best wishes.

      On motion of Chief Judge Ray McNichols                 the
Conference adopted the following memorial resolution:

         United States District Judge Morell E. Sharp of
   the Western District of Washington, and a member of
   this Conference, passed away on October 19, 1980 at
   Seattle, Washington.      Judge Sharp served with
   distinction in his state e.s a trial judge and on the
   highest state appellate court. In December 1971 the
   President appointed him to be a United States
   District Judge. In 197~ the judges of the Ninth
   Circuit elected him to represent them on the JUdicial
   Conference of the United States.

          During an all too-short career in the Federal
   Judiciary Judge Sharp impressed all with his warm,
   personal charm, his wise counsel, and the diligent
   manner in which he carried out his assigned duties.
   His deat!-J leaves us with a deep sense of loss.
                              52



          I ask unanimous consent that this Conference 

   spread the foregoing on the permanent minutes of 

   this Conference in memory of Judge Sharp. 



                      COMMITTEES

       The Conference authorized the Chief Justice to appoint
the following Ad Hoc Committees:

    1. A Committee to study the problems to be faced 

    by the Judiciary in the next two decades including a 

    review of the papers of the Pound Conference. 


    2. A Committee to consider the potential impact           

    upon the Federal courts of provisions providing for       

    judicial review in pending legislation to implement       

    regulatory reforms and to report thereon to the next      

    session of the Conference. 


    3.    A Committee to consider problems in the             

    assignment of potentially protracted litigation to        

    individual trial judges and the formation of a panel of   

    senior judges available to accept assignments to          

    handle complicated litigation. 



            RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

       The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for
legislative or administrative action.


                                         Warren E. Burger
                                   Chief Justice of the United States

July 17, 1981
                                                 53 




                                             INDEX

                                                                                              Page

Administrative Office, U.S. Courts 

   Report of the Director. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . • . . . • . . • .           4

Admission of Attorneys to Federal Practice: 

   Committee on, Report of. . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . ..              42 

Appellate Rules •..•...........................•.........                                         41 

Appointments and Payments, Criminal Justice Act. .•........                                       43 

Appropriations: 

   Authority to request supplemental. . . . • • . • . . . . • • . . • . . . ..                    24 

   Fiscal Year 1981 - Supplemental .......................                                        23 

   Fiscal Year 1982 •••.••.....••.••..•..••..••.••....••.                                         24 

   Narcotic Aftercare Program. . . . . • . . . • . . . • . . • . . . • . . . . ..                 36 

Bankruptcy Rules .....•..........•..•••.•...••••..•..•..                                          41 

Bankruptcy System: 

   Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges •..•...•....•.•••..                                         34 

   Committee on, Report of .......•••..••.....••..•..••.•                                         34 

   Discharge Hearings .•.....••...••.••..•...•..•.••.....                                         35 

   Referees' Salary & Expense Fund, Charges for .•.....•....                                      35 

Bicentennial: 

   Circuit Histories ...••..............••.......•..•..•..                                        42 

   Committee on, Report of ••..•..••...•..•.•....••.....•                                         42 

Board of Certification for Circuit Executives .•.••.....••...                                     50 

Board of Federal Judicial Center. . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . • . . . • • . • ..                50 

Budget: 

   Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1982 ................•...                                       24 

   Bankruptcy Caseload .••......••••......••...••.•..••.                                          24 

   Committee on, Report of ........................•.....                                         23 

   Contract Court Reporters. . . . . . • • . . . • . • . . . . . . • • • . . . . ••               24 

   Supplemental Appropriations, Authority to Request ••..•.•                                      24 

   Supplemental Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1981 ...•.••.                                      23 

Budget Requests: 

   Defender Office Operations ..•.............•.....•••..                                         46 

   Federal Public Defenders •.•.' ...•....••..••.•......••.•                                      45 

Caddo Lake Compact ...•......•.....•...................                                           21 

Certification Board, Circuit Executives .........•........••                                      50 

Circuit Executives: 

   Board of Certification for. . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . • . . . . . • .•             50 

   Criminal Justice Act Vouchers, Delegation of 

     Authority to Approve. . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . • • . ..             14 

   Model Code of Conduct for •.•••••••.••••.•.••••••..•..                                         27 

   Salaries, Review of adequacy of • • • • • . . • • . . • • • • . • • • . . • . .                 8

Circuit Histories. • . . • . . . • . . • . . • • . . • . . . . • . • . . • . . . • . . . • • ••   42 

Circuit Conferences, Attendance at •.••..••••••.•••••..•..                                        29 

                                                    54 




Circui t Councils: 

   Criminal Justice Act Vouchers, Delegation of 

      Authority to Approve. • . • • . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . .•                  14 

   Reports to Circuit Councils on Financial 

      Disclosure Reports .•.••.•............••••..••.••..•                                              26 

Civil Cases Pending Over Three Years, Disposition of • . . . . . • .                                     7

Civil Process, Service of .••..•.•.••••..•. . • . . • • • • . • • • • • •.                              19 

Civil Rules. . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • • . . . . . . • . . • . . . • • . . . . • • • • . . • .•     41 

Claims Court; Court of Appeals for the 

      Federal Circuit ..•.••••.••••.•••••..••••••.•••••.•.                                              16 

Clerks of Courts: 

   Bankruptcy Courts: 

         Funding for additional temporary clerks •....•.•••.••                                          24 

         Staffing formula ..••....•....••..•••....••.•..•.•                                             22 

   Model Code of Conduct for . . . • • • . . . • • . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . .•                     27 

   Salaries of ..•.....•..•...•..•..•..•....••••••••.•...                                                8

Clubs, Memberships in • . . • • • . • • . • . . • . . • . . • • • • • • . . . . • . • • •.              26 

Codes of Conduct: 

   Activities of Committee. . • • . • . . • . • . • • . . • • . • • . . • . • • . ••                    26 

   Committee on, Report of ..•......•..••••..••.•..••••••                                               26 

   Law Clerks, Code of Conduct for •..•••......•...••••.•.                                              28 

   Membership in Clubs ...•••.•.....••.••..••.•..•..•••.•                                               26 

   Model Code for Various Judicial Employees ..••.••.•.•••.                                             27 

Commission on Executive, Legislative, and Judicial 

  Salaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5

Commission on State-Federal Jurisdiction, 

  Creation of •.•.....•......•....•..•..........••.••.•.•                                               21 

Committees: 

   Future planning. . . . . . . . . • • . • . . . . • . . . . . . . • . . • . • • . • • . ••            52

   Protracted litigation. . . • • . • . . . . . • • . • • . • • . . . . . . • • . • • • ••              52 

   Regulatory reform ...••.•..................••.•••.••.                                                52 

   Records Disposition, Reactivation of ad hoc 

      Com mit tee on •.••..••..•..•••.•..•........•..••.••                                              12 

Community Defender Organizations: 

   Additional Funding •...•••..•..••.•...•..•..•.••....••                                               46 

   Conditions of Grants ..........••..•...•.•.•••.•..••••.                                              47 

   Grant Requests . . . • . • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • . • . • • • • • . • . • • . . ••            44 

Complex Criminal Jury Cases ••.••.••.••.••.••..•••••.•.••                                               40 

Contempt Power, Limitation on the Exercise of •••••.•• . • • ••                                         18 

Court Administration: 

   Clerks Offices in Bankruptcy Courts •••••••••••..•..••••                                             22 

   Circuit Executives, Approval of CJA Vouchers ••.••.••.••                                             14 

   Court Reporters: 

         Positions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..        22 

         Transcript Rates. . . . • . . • . . • . . • . . • • . • . . . • . . • • • • . ..                7

   Creation of Commission on State-Federal 

         J urisdiction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 21 

                                                                     55 




       Court of Appeals for Fecleral Circuit and
         United States Claims Court. . . . . . . • . . . . • • . . . • . . • . • . ..                                                   16
       Disposition of Civil Cases Pending
         Over Three Years ••.. . . • . . . • . . . • . . . • . . . . • • • . . • • . • • .                                               7
       In Banc Hearings in Courts of Appeals. . . . • • . • • • • • . • . . . .•                                                        13
       Interstate Compacts .•..' • • . • • • • • • • • . • • . . . • • . • • • . • • . • ..                                             21
       Judicial Administration Reform Act. . . . • • . . . • . . • • . . . • .•                                                         17
       Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. • . . . • • • • . • • . • •.                                                         22
       Jurisdiction of Claims by Cherokee Nation .•....•.••.•••.                                                                        20
       Library Funds", '" . '" ... '" . " '" '" '" . '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '"      15
       Limitation on the Exercise of Contempt Power ••..••...••                                                                         18
       Miscellaneous Fee Schedules. • . • • . . . • • • • • • . . • • • • . . • • . ••                                                  14
       Open Meetings of the Conference ••••.••••.••..•••••••.                                                                           16
       Places of Holding Court" • • . . . • . . • • • • . • • • . . • . • • • • • . • • ••                                              11
       Records Disposition ... '. . . . • • • . . • . • • . • . • • • • . • • • . • • . . •.                                            12
       Salaries of supporting personnel . • . • • . . • • • • • . . . • • . . . • • • .                                                  8
       Space Guidelines", '" '" '" '" '" . '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" . '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" 12
  Space Utilization Survey ••.•. . • • . • • • • . • • • . . . • • • . • • . . • •                                                       9
  Taxpayers' Bill of Rights •• . . • • • . . • . • • • . . • • • • • . • . • • • • .•                                                   19
   United States Marshals, Service of process
       and security. • • • • . . . . . . • . • . • . . . . • • . • • • • • • . • • • • • •.                                             19
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and
 United States Claims Court •...••••••.•••..••..•.•.•••••                                                                               16
Court Reporters:
  Additional Permanent, California (Northern) •.•••...••.••                                                                             22
  Contract Court Reporters. . • • . . . • • • . • • • . • • • . . • • • • • . . ..                                                      24
  Space Guidelines •..•..•••..••...••..••..••..••..•••..                                                                                12
  Survey by Administrative Office ...••.....•.•....•.....                                                                                 8
  Transcript Rates ...•.•••••••••......•••....••..••....                                                                                  7
  Travel and per diem of Blssistants ...•......••.....•••••.                                                                              8
Court security", '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" . '" '" 19
Courts:
  Bankruptcy:
        Additional temporaJ~y clerks. • • • • . • . . . • • • • • • • • • • • •.                                                        24
        Clerks' Offices, Staffing formula for ..•....••.•.•.••                                                                          22
        Courts Design Guid'e, Revision of. • . . . • . • . . • • . • • • . .•                                                           12
        Miscellaneous Fee Schedule. • • • • • . . . • • . . . • . • • • . • • .•                                                        14
  Court of Claims:
        Court of Appeals for Federal Circuit
          and United States Claims Court •.••..••••••..••..                                                                             16
        Jurisdiction of Claims by Cherokee Nation •...•.••.••                                                                           20
  Courts of Appeals:
        In Banc Hearings . . . • • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . ..                                               13
        Pretermission of T€~rms •. • • • . . • • . • • • • . • . • • • • • . . • •.                                                     50
   Customs and Patent Appeals:
        Court of Appeals for Federal Circuit and
          United States CIHims Court. • • . . . • . . • • . . . . • . . • • •.                                                          16
                                                56



   District Courts: 

        Adm ission of Attorneys .••........-. . . • • . . • . . . . . . •.                       42 

        California (Northern), Additional Court 

           Reporter for. . . . . • . . . • . . • . . . • . . . • . . . • . . . . . . • . ..      22

        Georgia (Southern), Place of Holding Court. • . . • . • . ••                             11 

        Space Utilization Survey . . . • . • • . • • • . . • • . . • . . • . . . • •              9

   Space and Facilities: 

        Bankruptcy Courts .••.•...•.••...•......••......•                                        12 

        Court Reporters .••..........••....•.......•••..•                                        12 

Criminal Justice Act: 

   Appointments and Payments. . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . • . . . • • . • . ..                 43 

   Circuit Executives, Approval of vouchers •••....••..•...•                                     14 

   Committee on, Report of ......•...•..••..•..••.•••.••.                                        43 

   Community Defender Organizations: 

        Condi tions of Grants. . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .•          47 

        Grant Requests. • • • . . • • • . . • . . • . . . . . . • • . • • • . . • . . ..         44 

   Federal Public Defenders: 

        Budget Reques ts . . . . . . . • . . . • . . • . . . • . . • • . . • . . . • . .•        45 

        Fort Smith, Arkansas .. • . • . . . . • . . . • • • • . . . • • . . • • • ..             49 

   Forms, Revision and Consolidation of .••...•..•.......•.                                      47 

   Funding for Defender Office Operations. . • . . . . . . . . . . . • ..                        46 

   Revision of the Act. • . . . . . . • . . • . . . • • . . • . . • • . • • . . . • . . .•       47 

   Witness Fees, Payment of ••......•..................•.                                        46 

Criminal Law: 

   Com m it tee on, Report of. • • • . . . • • . • • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . ..          37 

   Speedy Trial Act: 

        Amendments to the Act. . . . . • • . • . . . . . • . . • . . • • . . • ..                38 

        Guidelines. . • . . . . . • • . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . • . ••   38 

        Reporting Requirements •••.•••......•.••..•.••...                                        39 

Criminal Rules ...........•..............................                                        41 

Elections: 

   Board of Certification for Circuit Executives ...•.......•                                    50 

   Board of Federal JUdicial Center ...........••.•...•••..                                      50 

Federal JUdicial Center: 

   Elections to Board. • • . . . • . . . • . . • . . . • . . • • . . • • . • . . . . • . •.      50 

   Survey of pilot admissions program .......••...•..••....                                      43 

Federal Publ ic Defenders: 

   Additional Funding .........•..........•...•......•...                                        46 

   Budget Requests .••.....••......•................•..•                                         45 

   Fort Smith, Arkansas •...........•......••.......••.••                                        49 

   Model Code of Conduct for •....•.•.••...•...•.•••....•                                        27 

Fees: 

   Civil Process, Service of .•••.. . • • • • • . . • • • • • . • • • • . • • . .•               19 

   Misco:>Uaneous Fee Schedules. . • . . . . . . • . . . • . . . • . . . • • . . •.              14 

   Transcript Rates. • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . • . . . • • . . . . . • • • • • . . •      7

   Witness Fees, Payment of .•...•...•..•....•..•...•....                                        46 

Financial Disclosure Reports .........•••..•.•••..•••••..••                                      25 

                                                   5?



Forms:
    Criminal Justice Act, Revision of ......••...•.......... 47 

    Financial Disclosure Reporting ....•••...•.•..•.•.•.••.. 25 

General Accounting Office: 

    Grand Jury Proceedings, Secrecy of. . . • • • . • • • . • . • . . . . • .. 39 

    Speedy Trial Act, Recorrmendations for amendment of •••. 38 

Grand Jury Proceedings, Secrecy of. • • . . . . . . • . . • • . . . . . . . . •• 39 

Guidelines: 

    Space Guidelines •..... " . . . . • • • . • • • . . . • • . . • • • • . . . • • . .• 12 

    Speedy Trial Act •..•.. '. . • . • • • . . . . . • . . • • • • . • . • . . • • • • .• 38 

Haynsworth, Clement F., Jr", Resolution •.....•.••..•.•••.. 50 

In Banc Bearings in Courts of Appeals ...•.•..•••.•.......•• 13 

Intercircuit Assignments: 

    Committee on, Report of ..•.•.••..•.........•.••..••.• 40 

Interstate Compacts .........•••...•.•..••.••••••.•.••••• 21 

Judges: 

    Bankruptcy, Arrangements for •••..........•••...•••... 34 

    Clubs, Membership in . . . • • . • . . • . . • . • . • . . . • • . . . • . . • • • .. 26 

    Senior, Participation in In Bane Hearings in 

      Courts of Appeals . • . . • • . • • . . • . . . . . • . . . . • • • . . • • . . . •• 13 

Judicial Administration Reform Act. • . • • . • • . . • . • . • . . • . • . •• 17 

Judicial Branch: 

    Committee on, Report of. . • • . . • • . • • • • . • • • . . • • . . . . • • . . . 5 

    Judicial Survivors Annuities ."......................... 6 

    Salary Commission Recom mendations • . . . . • . . • • • . . . . • • . . 5 

Judicial Conference: 

    Call of. • . . • . . • . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • • . . . • • I 

    Open Meetings of .••...•..• "......................... 16 

    Release of Action ..•.•.•..• , . . . . • • • • . • . . . . . • . • . • • • . .• 52 

Judicial Ethics: 

    Com mittee on, Report of. • . • • . . • . . • • . . . • • • • • • . • • . . . • •• 25 

    Committee Review of Reports ••••..•...•.•...•••...•.• 25 

    Federal Income Tax Returns. • • • • • • . • • • . . . • • • • . . • • . . . •• 26 

    Reporting Form and Instructions .•.•.••.•.••.....•..••• 25 

    Reports by Judicial Employees .•••••.••••..•••••.••••.• 25 

    Reports to Circuit Councils ••...••••.•....••.••..••.•.• 26 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation................. 5,22 

JUdicial Survivors Annuity System • • • . . . • . • . . • • • . • • • • . . . • . • 6 

Jurisdiction: 

    Claims by the Cherokee Nation .•••.•••.........•••..•. 20 

    State-Federal, Creation of Commission on ...•••.•......• 21 

Jury Cases, Complex Crim inal .... . . . . . . • • • . . . . . . . . . • • . . •• 40 

Jury System: 

    Committee on, Report of •.••....•.....•••••...•....... 39 

    Complex Crim inal Jury Cases. . . . . . • • • . . . • . . . . • • . • • • • •. 40 

    Grand Jury Proceedings" Secrecy of .•••...•.•.••••....•. 39 

Law Clerks, Code of Conduct for. • . . . . . • . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . • .. 28 

                                                58 




Legislation:
   Caddo Lake Compact .•..••.••.••..••..•••• '• •.•.••..•• 21
   Contempt Power, Limitation on Exercise of •••.•..••••••. 18
   Jurisdiction of Claims by Cherokee Nation •••..•••••.•••. 20
   Red River Compact ••••.•..••.....••..•.•••..•••.•.•• 21
   State-Federal Jurisdiction, Creation of
      Commission on. • . • . • • • • . • • • . • • . . • • • • . • • • • • . . . • . • • •. 21
   Taxpayers' Bill of Rights ...... . . • .. .. . .. .. .. .. • .. . • ... 19
Legisla tve Proposals:
   Bankruptcy Code, Attendance of Debtors at
      Discharge Hearings • • • • . • . . . . . . • . . • • . . • . . • • • . • . . • . .. 35
   Court of Appeals for Federal Circuit and
      United States Claims Court. . . • • . . • . .. . • • • . • .. .. • . ... 16
   Criminal Justice Act:
         Paym ent of Witness Fees. . . . • • . • . . . • . . . . . . • . • • . • .• 46
         Criminal Justice Act Revision of 1981 .••.•••.••.••• 47
   In Banc Hearings, Senior judges' participation in . . . . • • • . •. 13
   JUdicial Administration Reform Act. • • • • • • . • • . . • • • • • . .• 17
   Narcotic Aftercare Program. • • . • . . . • . • . • . . • • • • • • • • • • •• 36
   Places of Holding Court. . . • • • . • . • . • • • • • . • • • . . • • • • • . . •• 11
   Salary Commission Recommendations. • • • . . • . • • . • • . • • • • • 6
Library Funds. • • • . . . . • • • • . . . • • • • . • . • • • . . . • • • . . • . • • • • • . .• 15
Magistrates System:
   Attendance at Circuit Conferences. . . . . • . . • • • • . . . • • . • •. 29
   Committee on, Report of •••...••.•..••.•.•..•••.•.•..• 28
   Qualification Standards . . . . . • • • • • . . . . . • . . . . . • • . • • • . • •• 29
Marshals Service, Security and service of process. . . • . . • • . . •. 19
Multidistrict Litigation, Judicial Panel on •...•..•..••.••• 5,22
Narcotic Aftercare Program .•.••..•.••••••••••••••.•••.•• 36
Pacific Territories:
   Committee on, Report of ..••••...•.•.••..••••..•.•.••. 42
Places of Holding Court, Georgia (Southern) ••••••••••.••••• 11
Pound Conference, Ad hoc committee to study papers of ••••• 52
Pretermission of Terms of Courts of Appeals ••••••••.•••.•.. 50
Pretrial Services Agencies. • • • • . • • • • • • . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •• 36
Probation Officers:
   Salaries of ...................... '" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
   Model Code of Conduct for. • • • • • . • • • • • . • • • • • • . • • • • • • •. 27
Probation System:
   Committee on, Report of. . • • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • . • • •. 35
   Narcotic Aftercare Program. . • • • • • • . • . . • • • . • • . . • • • • • •. 36
   Pretrial Services Agencies. . . • . . . • . . • • • . . . . . . • • • • . • • • •• 36
   Probation Personnel. . . • • . . . • • . . • • • • . . . • . • • . . • • • • • • . •. 37
   Sentencing Institutes •••••••..••••..•••........••..•.. 35
Protracted Litigation, Appointment of Committee on ••.••..• 52
Records Disposition:
   Committee on, Reactivation of ••..•..••..••.••..•.•••• 12
   Disposition schedule, Amendment to • • • • . • • • . . • . • . • . • • •• 12
                                                                                      59



Red River Compact ...................................... 21
Referees! Salary and Expense Fund, Charges for ....•••...... 35
Regulatory Reform, Ad hoc committee to review pending
 legislation        0   0   0   •   0   ••   0   •••         0   •   o. 52
                                                                      '.0     0   •   0   ••••••••                        0   •   0   0   ••      0   ••••••                  0       0   •



Resolutions:
    Civil Cases Pending Over Three Years,
      Disposition of •.....                                      o ••     7   0   0   0   •   0   ••••            0   0   •   0   0   0   •••••               0   •••••                   o.      0



    Haynsworth, Clement F Jr•.                                       0,  50               0   •••         0   ••      0   0   0   •   0   0   0   0   ••••••                  0   ••          0   0



   Sharp, Morell E., Memorial on the death of •...                       51                                                                               0.........
Rules of Practice and Procedure:
    Appellate Rules •.....•....                                          41           0   •••••••                     000.            00.         0   0   0.0         ••      0   ••••



    Bankruptcy Rules .......•                                            41
      0   •••••••••••                                 0   0   •••••••••••••                                           0



    Civil Rules ..•••..                              0   •••••           41   0   ••••••••••••••••••••                                                            0   •••••••



    Committee on, Report of                                              41
                                                                          0   •   0   •••••               000         •••         0   •   0   0   ••••            0   0   •   0.0             ••



   Criminal Rules.                       0   0   0   0   0   •••         41
                                                                          0   0   0   •   0   •   0   ••••••                  0   •   0   ••••            0   •••         0   •   •       •   ••



Salaries:
    Circuit Executives, Study of •                                        8               0   0   •••         0   ••••••••••••                                    0   •   •   •   •       •   •   •


    Clerks of Court and ChiE~f Probation Officers. . . . . . . . • • . . 8
   Commission on Executive, Legislative, and Judicial
      Salaries, Recommendations of. ••                                    5                                   0   •••         0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •       •   •   •


    Magistrates ..•....•....•.•••••.•.••..••                         28,29                                                                    0   0   •••••••••


Security   0   0   •••••••••                     0   ••••••••            19           0   •••••••                     0   0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •       •   ••



Sentencing Institutes:
   Second Circuit •••.•••••...•.•••.••...•...                            35                                                                       0   •••••••••••



   Joint Eighth and Tenth Circuits ...                         o.. o. 35                                      0   00,         ..      0   •   0   .....               0   0



Service of Civil Process                                 0   0   0    0  19
                                                                          0   0   •   0   •••••••••••                                 0   •••         0   •   0   0   •••         0       •   ••


Sharp, Morell Eo, Memorial Resolution ..                                 51                                           0   ••      0   •••••••                     0   •••         0       ••      0


Space Guidelines:
   Bankruptcy Courts                                 0   0   •   0    0  12
                                                                          •••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                                           0   •       •   ••



   Court Reporters ...••••...• , ••.                                     12                               0   •   0   ••••            0   0   0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •       •   ••



Space Utilization Survey                                     0   •••••••• 9                       0   0   •••••••••••                                 0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •       •   •   •


Speedy Trial Act:
   General Accounting Office recommendations •...•...•••• 38
   Guidelines ••..•....          o.••••.                 0   •••         38
                                                                          0   ••                                  0   •••••••••••                                 0   •   •   •   •       •   ••


   Reporting Requirements .•.•...•.....•....•..•••.•..•. 39
Staff Attorneys:
   Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ••••.•..•••••.•• 22
   Model Code of Conduct for .••••.••.••.                                27                                                       0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •       •   ••



State-Federal Jurisdiction, Creation of Commission on                    21                                                                                           0   •••••                   0


Statistics:
   Bankruptcy Courts •••.•..••..••.••...•••.•.•••                         4                                                                                           0   ••••••



   Courts of Appeals •••.••...••••••••                                    4                                           0   •••••••                     0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •       •   •   •



   Criminal Justice Act, Appointments and payments ••••..•• 43
   District Courts ......................................... .. 4
   Intercircuit Assignments.                                             40   0   •••••••••••••••••••                                                         0   •••         0   ••••



   Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation .••                         5                                                                   0   ••••••••••••



Taxpayers' Bill of Rights ................................. . 19
                                            60 




Travel Expenditures: 

   Court Reporters l Assistants. . . • • • • • • . . . . . . . • • • • • . . . . . . .   8

    Limitations on .................................... , ............ 23 

Transcripts: 

    Bankruptcy Courts Fee Schedule ......••....•..•...•••• 14 

    Court Reporters Transcript Rates. . . . • • . • • • • . • . . . • • • • • • 7 

"Vitness Fees, Payment of ....•••...•.••••......•••••....• 46 

Word processing equipment, Defer procurement of ..••......• 23 





                                     " u. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1981 

