           REPORT
              of the
   PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 




       September 24-25, 1981




         Washington, D.C.
                1981
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 



        WiUiam E. Foley 

            Director 

           REPORT 

             of the 

   PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 




       September 24-25,1981




         Washington, D.C.
               1981
         THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331

§'3Jl.   JUDICIAL CONfERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

  The Chief lustice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of each
judicial circuit, the chief judge of the Court of Oaims. the chief judge of the Court of Cus­
toms and Patent Appeals, and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at
such time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such
conference which shall be known as the Judicial Conference of the United States. Special
sessions of the conference may be called by the Chief Justice at such times and places as
he may desigoate.
   The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the
circuit and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held
pursuant to section JJJ of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for three
successive years, except that in the year following the enactment of this amended section
the judges in the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth circuits shall choose a district judge to
serve for one year, the judges in the second, fifth. and eighth circuits shall choose a district
judge to serve for two years and the judges in the third, sixth, ninth, and District of
Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for three years.
   If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit
is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon any other circuit or district judge from
such circuit. If the chief judge of the Court of Oaims or the chief judge of the Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon an
associate judge of such court. Every judge summoned shall attend, and. unless excused by
the Chief Justice, shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to
the needs of his circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of which the administra­
tion of justice in the courts of the United States may be improved.
  The conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from cir­
cuits or districts where necessalj', and shall submit suggestions to the various courts, in the
interest of uniformity and expedition of business.
   The conference shall also carry on a continuous study of the operation and effect of the
general rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as prescribed by the
Supreme Court for the other courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes
in and additions to those rules as the conference may deem desirable to promote simplicity
in procedure, fairness in administration, the just determination of litigation, and the elim·
ination of unjustifiable expense and delay shall be recommended by the conference from
time to time to the Supreme Court for its consideration and adoptim, modification or
rejection, in aC(l)rdance with law.
   The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice, report to such conference
on matters relating to the business of the severa) courts of the United States, with par­
ticular reference to cases to which the United States is a party.
  The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings of the
judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.



                                               iv
                             TABLE OF CONTENTS 


              REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

          JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNlTEDSTATES 


                              September 24-25, 1981 


                                                                                      Page
Call of the Conference • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •         55 

Report of the Director of the Administrative 

  Office of the United States Courts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                57 

    Judicial Business of the Courts •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               57 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict 

 Litigation ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                       58 

Committee on the Judicial Branch. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                59 

   Judicial Survivors Annuities •••••••••••••••••••••                                  59 

   Judicial Compensation • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •             59 

   Government Life Insurance. . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                59 

Ad Hoc Committee on Judicial Review Provisions 

 in Regulatory Reform Legislation. • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • •                 60 

Commmittee on Court Administration. • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •                    62 

   Nonappropriated Funds. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              62 

   United States Marshals Service. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 62 

   L~81 Size Paper •.••.•••••.••••••••••••••••••                                       63 

   Additional Judgeships. • • • • • . . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • •            64 

   Enforcement of State Custody Orders •••••• • • . • • • • •                          64 

   Judicial Review of the Denial of 

     Veterans Claims. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •          65 

   Interlocutory Appeals. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            66 

   ChUd's Right to Parental Support. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 66 

   Social Security Court . • • . . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •           67 

   Priorities on Appeal • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • •          68 

   Position Description, Court Executive. • • • • • • • • • • • • •                    68 

   Staffs of Judges • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •        68 

     staff Attorneys ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                    69 

     Bankruptcy Deputy Clerk, Estate 

       Administration ••.•••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                  70 

     Law Clerks for Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 71 

     Pro Se Law Clerks ••.•••••••••••••• • • • • • • • • • • •                         71 

     Court Reporters. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •        72 

     Staffing of Probation Offices •••.•.••••••••••••••                                72 

     Depositions in Foreign Countries. • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • •               72 

     Judiciary Salaries and Retirement 

       Benefits • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •    72 

     Additional Supporting Personnel ••••.••••••••••.••                                73 


                                       v
Committee on the Budget. • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • . • . . • • • • • •                                         74 

   Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1983. • • • • . • • • • • • •                                                74 

   Supplemental Appropriations for the 

        Fiscal Year 1982 . . . . . . . . . . . • . .. .. . .. . . .. . . • • • . . .                               75 

    Standard Level User Charges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                           75 

    Work Measurement Studies • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                           76 

    Salaries of Magistrates • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                      76 

Judicial Ethics Committee •••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                           76 

    Activities of the Committee. • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • •                                           76 

    Disqualification of Judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                        77 

    Reporting Form and Instructions. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                             77 

    Reports to Chief Circuit Judges •••••••.••••••••••                                                             78 

    Financial Disclosure Reports by Court 

        Reporters • • .. • • • • • • . • • . . • • • • • . .. . .. . . .. • . .. .. .. .. •                        78 

Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                 79 

   Activities of the Committee. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                            79 

   Membership in Clubs. • • • . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                        79 

Committee on the Administration of the 

 Federal Magistrates System. . • • . • • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • •                                           80 

   Report on the Federal Magistrates System. • • • • • • • • • •                                                   80 

   Habeas Corpus Legislation .•••••••••••••••••••••                                                                80 

   Salaries of Part-Time Magistrates. • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • •                                              81 

   Changes in Magistrates Positions. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                             82 

Committee on the Administration of the 

 Bankruptcy System •.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                                   86 

   Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges. • . • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                 86 

   Study of Bankruptcy Judge Positions •••••••••••••••                                                             88 

Committee on the Administration of the 

 Probation System •••••••••••.•.•••••••••.••••••                                                                   88 

   Sentencing Institutes •••.••••••.•••••••••••••.•                                                                88 

   Sentencing Reform Act of 1981 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                             89 

   Mandatory Minimum Sentences. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                90 

   Probation Information Management System ••••••••••                                                              90 

   Pretrial Services Agencies ••••••••••••••••••••••                                                               91 

   Narcotic Aftercare Program • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • •                                            91 

   Probation Office Positions ••••••••••••••••••••••                                                               91 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Criminal Law ..................................... . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. ..                       92 

     Speedy Trial Guidelines. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                      92 

     Ball Ref orm .. .. • .. .. • .. • .. • • . .. . .. • .. . • .. . . . .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . ..               92 

     Mandatory Minimum Sentences • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • •                                             93 

     Commitment of Mentally Incompetent 

       Persons.. • .. .. .. • .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. • .. .. .. • .. .. ..   93 

     Speedy Trial Act ........................................................                                     94 

     Protection of Federal Officers •••••••••••••••••••                                                            94 



                                                      vi
Committee on the Operation of the Jury
  System • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • . • . •     95
     Secrecy of Grand Jury Proceedings •.••••••••• • . • • .                             95
     Recording of Grand Jury Proceedings. • • • • • • • • • • . • • •                    96
     Juror Utilization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         97 

   Grand Jury Witnesses • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • •              98
   Complex Criminal Jury Trials • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .                  98
Committee on Intercircuit Assignments. • . . • • • • • • • • • • • •                     98
   Activities of the Committee. • • • . • . . • • • • • • . . • • • • •                  98
   Guidelines for Intercircuit Assignments. • • • • • • • • • . • •                      99
Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice
  Act . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • . . . . . . . . . • • . .   100 

     Appointments and Payments • . . • • • • • . . . • • • • • • • • •.                 100
     Budget Requests - Federal Public
      Defenders •••. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • . . ••           101
     Grant Requests - Community Defender
       Organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..         102
   Authorization for the Payment of
    Transcript Costs • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • .•             103
Committee on Rules of Practice and
  Procedure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..       103
     Amendments to the Criminal Rules and the
       Rules Governing Procedures in Section 2254
       Cases and Section 2255 Proceedings. • • • • • • • • • • • .•                     103
     Federal Rules of Evidence. • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . .•              104
     Bankruptcy Rules. . . . • • • • • • . . • • • . • • • • . . • • • • . •.           105
     Civil Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..      105
    Appellate Rules. • • • • • • . • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • . . . . ••           105
Implementation Committee on Admission of
  Attorneys to Federal Practice •••••••••••••••••••••                                   106
Future of the Judiciary. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • ••           107
Pretermission of Terms of the Courts of
  Appeals •••••••••..•••••••..•.•••••••••••••••                                         107
Release of Conference Action. • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • . . • • • ••                107




                                        vii
             REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

                  OF THE JUDICIAL 

           CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES 


                    September 24-25, 1981 

       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened
on September 24, .1981, pursuant to the call of the Chief
Justice of the United States, issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and
continued in session on September 25th. The Chief Justice
presided and the following members of the Conference were
present:

First Circuit:

      Chief Judge Frank M. Coffin
      Chief Judge Raymond J. Pettine, District of Rhode Island
Second Circuit:

      Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
      Chief Judge Lloyd F. MacMahon, Southern District of
       New York

Third Circuit:

      Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz
      Chief Judge Gerald J. Weber, Western District
       of Pennsylvania
Fourth Circuit:

     Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
     Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., Eastern District of Virginia
Fifth Circuit:

     Chief Judge John C. Godbold
     Chief Judge John V. Singleton, Jr., Southern District of
      Texas

Sixth Circuit:

     Chief Judge George C. Edwards, Jr. 

     Chief Judge Frank J. Battisti, Northern District of Ohio 



                             55
                                56 




Seventh Circuit:

     Chief Judge Walter J. Cummings
     Judge S. Hugh Dillin, Southern District of Indiana

Eighth Circuit:

     Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
     Judge Albert G. Shatz, District of Nebraska

Ninth Circuit:

     Chief Judge James R. Browning
     Judge Manuel L. Real, Central District of California
Tenth Circuit:

     Chief Judge Oliver Seth
     Chief Judge Howard C. Bratton, District of New Mexico

District of Columbia Circuit:

     Chief Judge Spottswood W. Robinson, III
     Chief Judge John Lewis Smith, District of Columbia

Court of Claims:
     Chief Judge Daniel M. Friedman

Court of Customs and Patent Appeals:

     Chief Judge Howard T. Markey
        On invitation of the Chief Justice, Circuit Judge
Charles Clark, who will be the Chief Judge of the Fifth Circuit
on October 1, 1981, and Judge William C. O'Kelly, Jr., who will
become the District Judge Representative to the Conference
from the new Eleventh Circuit, commencing October 1, 1981,
also attended the Conference.           •

        Circuit Judges Irving R. Kaufman, Otto R. Skopil,
Edward A. Tamm, Gerald B. Tjofiat and J. Clifford Wallace;
Senior District Judges Elmo B. Hunter, Thomas J. MacBride,
George L. Hart, Jr., and Roszel C. Thomsen; and District
Judges C. Clyde Atkins, Edward T. Gignoux, Alexander Harvey
II, and James L. King, attended all or some of the sessions of
the Conference.
                              57 


                         I

                         I
                         I              •
       The Attorney General of the Umted States, Honorable
William French Smit~, and the Solicitor General of the United
States, Rex E. Lee,1 addressed the Conference briefly on
matters of mutual inferest to the Department of Justice and
the Conference.     !
                         I
       Senator Strom Thurmond, Chairman of the Senate
Judiciary committee~ Congressman Robert W. Kastenmeier,
Chair'TIan of the Ho se Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts,
Civil Liberties and. the Administration of Justice; and
Congressman Neal i Smith, Chairman of the House
Appropriations SUbc~mittee on Commerce, Justice, State,
the Judiciary, and Re ated Agencies, addressed the Conference
briefly on matters p nding in the Congress of interest to the
Judiciary.           :

       William E. FOlt·y, Director of the Administrative Office
of the United State Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
Director; James E. acklin, Assistant Director; William J.
Weller, Legislative Atfairs Officer; Deborah Kirk, Chief of the
Management Review I Division; and Charles W. Nihan, Deputy
Director of the Federal Judicial Center, attended all sessions
of the Conference. I The Director of the Federal Judicial
Center, A. Leo Levin, presented the Center's Annual Report.
John Yoder of the Supreme Court staff was also in attendance.


                REP~RT OF THE DffiECTOR 

             OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

             OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 


       The Director df the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, williajn E. Foley, submitted to the Conference
the Annual Report of the Director for the year ended June 30,
1981. Accompanying the Annual Report was a special report on
The Equal EmpIOym~nt Opportunity programs adopted in the
various courts. The Conference authorized the Director to
release the Annual eport immediately in preliminary form
and to revise and sup~lement the final printed edition.

                Judi~ial Business of the Courts
                     I
                     I

       Mr. Foley reported that appeals docketed in the United
States courts of appeals during the year ended June 30, 1981
increased 13.6 percent to a record 26,362 appeals filed. During
the year the courts: of appeals terminated a record 25,066
                               58



appeals, an increase of 20 percent over the previous year but
4.9 percent less than the number filed. As a result, the number
of appeals pending on June 30, 1981 increased 6.4 percent to a
record 21,548 pending appeals.

       Civil cases filed in the United States district courts
during the year ended June 30, 1981 were 180,576, an increase
of 7 percent over the 168,789 civil cases filed the previous
year. There were 177,975 civil cases closed, 10.9 percent more
than the previous year, and the pending civil caseload
increased 1.4 percent to 188,714 as of June 30, 1981.
       Reversing a three-year downward trend, criminal cases
filed in the district courts in 1981 climbed to 31,287, an 8.2
percent increase over 1980. There were 30,221 criminal cases
closed during the year, and on June 30,1981 there were 15,850
pending criminal cases. During the year weapons and firearms
prosecutions increased 40 percent, embezzlement cases
increased 16 percent and prosecutions for drug-related
offenses increased 18 percent.

       During the year ending June 30, 1981, there were
360,329 bankruptcy cases, representing 518,152 separate
estat~s, filed in the United States bankruptcy courts.      An
additional 911 estates in cases originally filed under the
Bankruptcy Act prior to October 1, 1979 were reopened. This
constitutes an increase of 158,106 estates, or 43.8 percent
more than last year's record high of 360,957 estate filings.
There were 321,749 estates closed during the year, an increase
of 62.1 percent over the previous year, but 197,314 less than
the number filed. As a result, the number of estates pending
on the dockets of the bankruptcy courts on June 30, 1981
increased 46.9 percent to a record 617,896 pending estates.

     JUDICIAL PANEL ON MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION

        A written statement filed with the Conference by the
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation indicated that during
the year ending June 30, 1981 the Panel had acted on 1,481
civil actions pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407. Of that number 960
actions were centralized for consolidated pretrial proceedings
with 287 civil actions already pending in the transferee
districts. The Panel denied the transfer of 234 civil actions.
Since its creation in 1968 the Panel has transferred 10,410 civil
actions for centralized pretrial proceedings in carrying out its
responsibilities. As of June 30, 1981, approximately 7,800
cases had been remanded for trial or terminated in the
transferee courts.
                              59



          COMMI'n"EB ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

       Judge Irving R. Kaufman, Chairman of the Committee
on the Judicial Branch, submitted the Committee's report.
                 Judicial Survivors Annuities
       Judge Kaufman informed the Conference that the
Committee had prepared draft legislation to amend the
Judicial Survivors Annuity Act, 28 U.S.C. 376, to adjust the
benefits payable to widows and surviving dependent chUdren of
justices and judges. Thereafter the bill, with the approval of
the Chief Justice, was submitted to and approved by the
Executive Committee of the Conference and transmitted to
the Congress. The draft bill would provide a minimum annuity
for the widow or widower of a Federal judge equal to 30
percent of the judge's highest three-year average salary,
increase the maximum annuity from 40 percent to 55 percent
of salary, and increase substantially the annuities payable to
surviving dependent chUdren of Federal judges. The bill would
also increase a judge's contribution to the Judicial Survivors
Annuity Fund from 4.5 percent of salary to 5 percent of
salary. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference endorsed the action of the Executive Committee.
                    Judicial Compensation
      Judge Kaufman also informed the Conference that the
Executive Committee had approved draft legislation, prepared
by the Committee, to create a separate biennial Commission
on Judicial Salaries as recommended by the last Quadrennial
Salary Com mission and that the draft legislation had been
transmitted to the Congress. Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference endorsed the action of the
Executive Committee.
                  Government Life Insurance
       S. 820, 97th Congress, is a bill to authorize government
officers and employees to assign the ownership of government
life insurance policies to spouses and other family members.
Upon the recommendation of the Committee the Conference
adopted the following resolution:
                              60



    At the present time, government life insurance
    policies owned by members of the Federal judiciary
    are not assignable to spouses or other members of the
    family of the judge. As a result, the policies are not
    as valuable as non-government policies which
    ordinarily are assignable, and therefore enable the
    insured to place the proceeds of such policies outside
    the estate of the insured in the event of death.
    Legislation has now been introduced by Senator J.
    Bennett Johnston of Louisiana, S.820, that would
    enable judges, as well as other persons insured under
    government insurance policies to assign such
    policies. Since such a provision would greatly assist
    insured Federal employees and would give to
    government policies the same attributes as those
    purchased from non-government sources, it is
    resolved that the Judicial Conference of the United
    States endorse S. 820 and any other legislation that
    may be introduced in Congress that is designed to
    make government life insurance policies assignable.


 AD HOC COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL REVIEW PROVISIONS 

       IN REGULATORY REFORM LEGISLATION 


       In the absence of Judge Robert A. Ainsworth, Jr.,
Chair~an   of the Ad Hoc Committee on Judicial Review
Provisions in Regulatory Reform Legislation, a written report
on the activities of the Committee was presented to the
Conference.
       S. 1080 and H.R. 746, 97th Congress, are bills pertaining
to regulatory reform.      On May 11, 1981, Congressman
Danielson, Chairman of the House Judiciar· Subcommittee on
Administrative Law and Governmental Relations, notified the
Administrative Office that legislative developments in relation
to regulatory reform legislation were proceeding expeditiously
in both Houses of Congress. He requested that, if possible,
Conference views on this legislation be submitted prior to the
end of July. Early in July the COT.lmittee met and approved a
series of specific recommendations in relation to these bills
which were thereafter submitted to and approved by the
Executive Committee. On July 20th the Director of the
Administrative Office formally transmitted the approved
recommendations to Congressman Danielson.                Shortly
thereafter, the Chief Justice, in response to an inquiry,
                               61



transmitted copies of the Director's letter to Senators
Thurmond, Laxalt, and Grassley.
       The Conference was advised that the Ad Hoc
Committee had addressed itself to three areas of concern: (1)
the scope of judicial review of administrative agency action
and the standards for such review; (2) the level of judicial
review in the first instance in the federal court system
(whether in a court of appeals or in a district court); and (3)
the proposed solution to eliminating the unseemly "race to the
courthouse" in administrative agency cases. The Committee
recommended amendatory language clarifying the role of the
Judiciary in reviewing agency determinations of questions of
law, so as not to overburden federal appellate courts;
recommended, as an alternative to the direct review of agency
cases, the creation of an Article I executive branch court or
courts with certiorari review by Article m courts; proposed
certain changes in language in the proposed standard for
judicial review of informal rulemaking under Section 553 of the
Administrative Procedure Act; opposed the judicial review of
certain agency decisions and agency regulatory analyses
supporting informal rulemaking decisions, which would require
judicial review of the entire rulemaking fUe, analyses and
supporting data; and opposed efforts to create a right of
judicial review for preliminary agency decisions in the course
of rulemaking.
       The Committee approved a provision contained in S.
1080 to provide for random selection by the Administrative
Office of the United States Courts when multiple proceedings
for the review of agency action have been instituted in various
circuits, with the understanding that the random selection is to
be considered a ministerial act and does not impose any
judicial function on the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts. The Committee suggested, however, that the
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation with its staff may be
an alternative to the Administrative Office as the agent
administering the random selection process.

       The Conference was informed that the Executive
Committee had approved the recommendations and proposals
of the Ad Hoc Committee and that members of the Committee
had appeared as supporting witnesses in hearings before various
Congressional Committees.
                               62



         COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

      Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration, presented the report of the Committee.

                    Nonappropriated Funds

       The Conference in March 1981 (Conf. Rept., p. 14)
authorized the Committee to prepare guidelines on the sources
and uses to which nonappropriated funds (formerly called
library funds) may be put and how they should be managed,
in"ested and audited. Judge Hunter informed the Conference
that the Committee had amended the draft guidelines prepared
by the staff of the Administrative Office to make them
general in nature, leaving responsibility for detailed operation
to the various courts. Since the money in the funds is obtained
from private attorneys, the Committee was of the view that
members of the bar might be utilized as members of an
Advisory Com mittee, along with judges and other judicial
officers, to provide advice concerning the administration of
the funds.     The Com mittee was also of the view that
nonappropriated funds may be used to purchase books and
periodicals even though the publications may be of the type for
which funds have been appropriated in the past, if appropriated
funds are not available at the time of purchase.
      Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved the guidelines as amended by the
Committee and authorized their transmission to all courts.
                United States Marshals Service

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the Office
of Management and Budget had severely reduced the budget
for the United States Marshals Service for the fiscal year 1982
and that consequently no funds were requested for the service
of process in private civil litigation. As a result, the Advisory
Committee on the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure now has
under consideration an amendment to Rule 4(c} to provide for
and encourage the use of alternative means of serving civil
process. In addition, the district courts have been asked to
adopt local rules to create alternative mechanisms for service
of process where authorized by state law and to encourage
their use by the bar. An amendment to 28 U.S.C. 569(b} is
being considered by the Congress which would continue the
responsibility of United States marshals to execute all lawful
                                63



writs, process and orders issued under authority of the United
States and command all necessary assistance to execute their
duties, but at the same time would relieve the Marshals
Service of the obligation to serve complaints, summonses and
subpoenas on behalf of any party other than the United States
except in pauper cases under 28 U.S.C. 1915, or on special
order of the district court after a determination that service
by a marshal is required to effect proper service.
       Reductions in funds available to the Marshals Service
may also affect court security. As a result the Attorney
General has agreed to ask the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation to prepare a proposal for assessing the security
needs of the courts and for establishing appropriate standards.

        In view of the fiscal constraints being imposed which
have affected the ability of the United States Marshals Service
to serve civil process adequately and to provide security at an
acceptable level, and because of a perception that some judges
are using members of the Marshals Service for inappropriate
purposes, the Committee recommended that the Conference
place the matter of such alleged misuse before the Conference
of Chief Judges of the Courts of Appeals for appropriate
action.

                        Legal Size Paper

      The     Association     of    Records      Managers      and
Administrators has initiated a nation-wide campaign to
eliminate totally the use of legal size files, a proposal strongly
supported by the National Archives and Records Service of the
General Services Administration. The Chief Justice, at the
request of the Archivist of the United States, directed the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts to review
the recommendations and to submit a proposal to the
Committee. Judge Hunter informed the Conference that,
after full review of the recommendations of the
Administrative Office, the Committee had voted to
recommend that they be approved with the understanding that
no requirement will be imposed to use both sides of a sheet of
paper and       that the full implementation of the
recommendations not take effect until January 1, 1983. After
full discussion the Conference approved the following
recommendations submitted by the Committee:
                                64



    A. 	 That the Judicial Conference adopt the 8-1/2 x
         11 inch paper size standard for use throughout
         the Federal Judiciary and eliminate the use of
         legal size paper measuring 8-1/2 x 14 inches.
    B. 	   That a transition period through December 31,
           1982, be established to enable courts and
           attorneys to exhaust their supplies of legal size
           paper and forms. During this transition period,
           both the 8-1/2 x 11 inch size and the 8-1/2 x 14
           inch size will be accepted (unless previously
           adopted local court rules prohibit filing on 8-1/2
           x 14 inch size paper).
    C. 	 That effective October 1, 1981, all new,
         revised, or reprinted forms stocked at
         Administrative Office warehouse facilities are
         to be printed on the 8-1/2 x 11 inch size.
    D. 	 That effective January 1, 1983, the 8-1/2 x 11
         inch paper size is to be implemented fully in all
         Federal courts.
                      Additional Judgeships
       Judge Hunter stated that the Subcommittee on Judicial
Statistics had formulated plans for conducting the 1982
biennial survey. At the request of the Subcommittee, the
Administrative Office had developed a summary of the
"Procedures and Standards Used in Conducting United States
Courts Judgeship Surveys, 1964-1980" which will be circulated
to all courts to assist them in responding to a questionnaire on
the need for additional judgeships. A request for an additional
judgeship in the District of Wyoming and a request for three
additional judgeships in the Southern District of Florida, in lieu
of the September 1980 Conference recommendation for one
additional permanent judgeship and one temporary judgeship in
that district, were deferred by the Committee for
consideration during the 1982 biennial judgeship survey.
              Enforcement of State Custody Orders
      The Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee had
requested the views of the Conference on H.R. 223, 97th
Congress, a bill to grant jurisdiction to the district courts to
enforce any custody order of a state court against a parent,
                                65 




who in contravention of such order, takes a child to another
state.    While the bill embodies a matter of policy for
Congressional determination, the Committee concluded that
Section 2 of Article m of the Constitution may not support
such a grant of jurisdiction to a Federal court; historically
jurisdiction in domestic relations cases has been reserved to
state courts. Further, the bill is unclear as to questions of
venue, what law is to be applied, and the nature of relief that
may be granted. The Conference in March 1978 (Conf. Rept.,
p. 11) took no position on the merits of a similar bill, but
authorized the communication of the Committee's views to the
Congress. The Conference therefore approved transmission of
the Committee's views on H. R. 223 to Congress.
       Judicial Review of the Denial of Veterans Claims
       S. 349, 97th Congress, is a bill to provide for the judicial
review of denials of veterans claims. The bill establishes
procedures within the Veterans Administration for the
adjudication of veterans claims, requires the Veterans
Administration to conform to the rulemaking procedures of
Section 553 of the Administrative Procedure Act, and provides
for the judicial review of final decisions of the Board of
Veterans Appeals in the district courts. The Conference in
March 1963 (Conf. Rept., p. 18) disapproved legislation to
provide for the review of decisions of the Administrator of
Veterans Affairs in the district courts and recommended that
jurisdiction be vested in a special Executive Branch Court of
Veterans Appeals.      This position was reaffirmed by the
Conference in March 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 9). Testimony
submitted to the 96th Congress indicated that the enactment
of a similar bill would result in an estimated increase of 4,600
cases annually in the district courts.
       B.}cause of the overburdened case10ads of the district
courts, the Committee believed that it was not practical or
desirable to impose additional caseloads involving veterans
claims. The Committee felt that the review of these claims
should be conferred exclusively upon the Board of Veterans
Appeals, or upon a new Executive Branch Article I court, and
that the appellate review of the decisions of the Board of
Veterans Appeals, or a new Executive Branch court, by the
district courts, courts of appeals and the Supreme Court, is
most undesirable in view of the potential impact on the
case10ads of these courts. If, however, judicial review is
deemed to be appropriate, it should be limited to the review of
constitutional issues and questions of statutory interpretation.
                               66



       Upon the Committee's recommendation the Conference
voted to recommend to the Congress that any initial review of
a decision denying a veteran's claim should be made by the
Board of. Veterans Appeals or a new executive branch court of
Veterans Appeals, and that any appellate review thereafter by
district courts be limited to constitutional issues and questions
of statutory interpretation.
                     Interlocutory Appeals
        Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed various proposals to amend the
interlocutory appeals statute, 28 U.S.C. 1292, to incorporate
therein various judicial decisions relating to exceptions to the
finality rule and to allow a party held in civil contempt to
apply for an interlocutory appeal. The Committee concluded,
however, that the existing statutory language was preferable
to any of the proposed changes which, in the view of the
Committee, may invite additional appeals to already
overburdened appellate courts. The Committee therefore
submitted no proposaL
               Childs Right to Parental Support
       The Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee had
requested the views of the Conference on H.R. 881, 97th
Congress, to establish a federal right of every unemancipated
child to be supported by such childs parent or parents, and to
confer upon certain local courts of the District of Columbia,
and every state and territory, necessary jurisdiction to enforce
such right regardless of such childs residence.
       The bill would add a new Chapter 177 to Title 28,
United States Code, entitled "Enforcement of State Court
Support Orders". Section 3102 would authorize the registration
of a support order of any state court "in any court of any state
in which an obligor of an order resides" and which "has
jurisdiction to issue support orders". Section 3103 would
authorize the court in which a support order is registered to
"entertain contempt proceedings, in the same manner as if the
order were an order of such court, against an obligor who fails
to comply with the order within 30 days after being served
notice that it has been registered." The cost of enforcement
proceedings would be "taxed against the party against whom
the issues are resolved, including a reasonable attorneY's fee
for the obligee." Section 3104 would require notice of the
                                67



proceedings to the original court. The bill would further
amend 28 U.S.C. 1332 (diversity statute) by adding a new
subdivision conferring jurisdiction of these proceedings on
state courts.
       The provisions of the bill are drafted as amendments to
Title 28, United states Code, but the bill does not in any way
deal with the organization or jurisdiction of United States
courts. Furthermore, the power of Congress to enact laws
confering original jurisdiction upon state courts in matters
involving domestic relations may be open to question. The
Committee recommended that the Conference express no view
on the merits of the bill, but point out that the power of
Congress to confer exclusive jurisdiction on state courts to
hear and determine these issues is open to question and that
amending Title 28, United States Code, is an inappropriate
means of accomplishing the bill's stated objective. This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.
                      Social Security Court
       H.R. 3865, 97th Congress, would establish a Social
Security Court under Article I of the Constitution to serve as
the initial reviewing court with respect to: (1) all decisions
rendered under the old-age, survivors, and disabnity insurance
programs and (2) all final determinations made under the
supplemental security income program. It would also make
other improvements in the appeals procp-ss under these
programs.
       The purposes of the bill in establishing a Social Security
Court are (1) to provide uniform case law precedent which
would be binding on all levels of adjudication and (2) to help
lessen the congestion in the Fed~ral courts. The Social
Security Court would be structured on the pattern of the
United States Tax Court, and appeals from decisions of the
Court would be made to the Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia Circuit on the basis of constitutionality or
statutory interpretation only. The Court would consider both
disability and nondisability cases, thus avoiding a split in a case
with both insured status and disabnity issues.

      Although the bill would dramatically decrease the
workload of most of the courts of appeals, it would increase
the workload of the District of Columbia Circuit. The
Committee therefore recommended that the bill be amended
                                68 




to provide for appellate review in the same manner as appeals
from the Tax Court are handled, but that the bill otherwise be
approved.    The recommendation of the Committee was
approved by the Conference.

                      Priorities on Appeal
        H.R. 4396, 97th Congress, introduced by Congressman
Robert W. Kastenmeier, would repeal all statutory provisions
granting a priority basis for the hearing of any class or
category of civil case, (other than habeas corpus) in both the
courts of appeals and district courts. The Congressman has
noted that because of the large caseloads in the Federal
courts, the number of priority cases has increased to the
extent that many non-priority civil cases cannot be docketed
for hearings at all, or must suffer inordinate delay. The
American Bar Association has endorsed the legislation. The
bill, if enacted, would leave to the courts themselves the
determination of the priority of cases.             Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
the bill.
       Position Description for District Court Executives
       The Committee submitted for Conference approval a
proposed position description for a district court executive to
assist the five district courts participating in the pilot district
court executive program. The position description, together
with the experience being gained from the five pilot programs,
will be useful in clarifying to Congress the role and
contemplated duties of a district court executive when pending
legislation to create this position is considered.             The
description will also assist courts having such a position by
clarifying lines of authority. It has been drafted to leave the
ultimate authority to increase or decrease the assignment of
specific responsibilities to the chief judge of the court. The
Conference approved the guideline position description.
                         Staffs of Judges

       The Conference in September 1979 (Conf. Rept., p. 75)
adopted guidelines for the employment of secretaries and law
clerks by circuit, district and bankruptcy judges. Item 3 of the
guidelines provides that the chief judge of each circuit and of
each district court having five or more district judges may
employ an additional secretary or law clerk. The Committee
                                69 




was of the view that a similar flexibility should be permitted
by the guidelines for the employment of staff by other circuit
and district judges, pointing out that a judge who substitutes a
secretary for a law clerk would incur a lower obligation of
Federal funds. Upon the recommendation of the Committee
the Conference amended Items I and 2 of the guidelines to
read as follows:
    1. 	   A district judge may employ a law clerk and a
           secretary and one additional employee as a law
           clerk or as an assistant secretary or a crier,
           subject to the JSP grade levels and qualification
           standards adopted by the Judicial Conference.
    2. 	   A circuit judge may employ a secretary, an
           assistant secretary, and up to three other such
           personnel as law clerks or assistant secretaries,
           subject to the JSP grade levels and qualification
           standards adopted by the JUdicial Conference.
                         Staff Attorneys
        Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Committee has been faced with a determination of what
limits, if any, are to be placed on requests for additional staff
attorneys and related secretarial or clerical support positions
in the courts of appeals. When circuit judges were recently
provided with a third law clerk, the expectation that requests
for staff attorney positions would diminiSh did not occur.
After full discussion the Conference adopted the following
guidelines:
    It is the policy of the Conference that the number of
    staff attorneys in each circuit court, including the
    senior staff attorney, should not exceed the number
    of active judgeships authorized for that court. This
    ratio should be considered to be a standard norm
    which may be exceeded only upon submission of
    specific and well-documented justification to the
    Administrative Office.        Similarly, nonattorney
    secretarial or clerical support to the staff attorneys
    in the circuit courts should not exceed a ratio of one
    such support individual for every two attorneys, not
    including the private secretary to the senior staff
    attorney.      Also similarly, this ratio should be
    approached through well-documented justification.
                              70



   If the number of staff attorneys presently employed
    by a court exceeds the number of authorized active
    judges, the number of staff attorney positions now
    authorized should be retained for a period of two
    years or untn expressly approved by the Judicial
    Conference following a showing of specific and well­
    documented justification, which ever shall occur
    first.
      In determining the number of staff attorney positions to
be authorized in each court of appeals the Director of the
Administrative Office may consult with the appropriate
Committees of the Conference.
       Bankruptcy Deputy Clerk, Estate Administration
       The classification and qualification standards for a
deputy clerk, estate administration, provide for salary levels
ranging from JSP-9 to JSP-13. The clerk of the bankruptcy
court is the appointing official and supervises the work to be
performed. Good personnel practice would normally indicate
that a supervisor be classified at a higher grade than any
subordinates or, at a minimum, at the same grade. Under the
current system of ~rade allocations for clerks of bankruptcy
courts there are, however, 14 districts in which the maximum
grade for the clerk is JSP-12 and in 8 other districts the
maximum grade is JSP-13.          These circumstances create
potential difficulties for the 22 courts in which an individual
serving as a deputy clerk, estate administration, may be
qualified for a grade level at the same or higher level than the
maximum grade of the clerk of court.
       In view of these difficulties, the Conference, upon the
recommendation of the Committee, adopted the following
resolution:
    In United States Bankruptcy Courts, positions as
    deputy clerk, estate administration, should be
    administratively limited to a maximum classification
    of at least one grade lower than the maximum grade
    for the clerk of court. On an exception basis, with
    the concurrence of the court and the Director of the
    Administrative     Office,    estate   administration
    positions may be classified at the same grade level as
    the maximum grade of the clerk of court position in
    that court. Under no circumstances shall any estate
    administration deputy position be classified at a
    higher grade than the maximum classifiable for the
    clerk of court.
                                71



               Law Clerks for Bankruptcy Judges
        The Bankruptcy Reform Act authorized circuit councils
to establish panels of bankruptcy judges to hear appeals from
bankruptcy courts. To date, panels have been established in
the First and Ninth Circuits. The bankruptcy judges assigned
to these panels continue to receive trial court cases in the
same numbers as their fellow judges who are not on appellate
panels. As a consequence, many of the panel judges are
carrying an extremely heavy workload. The Committee
concluded that a partial solution to the problem would be to
provide a second law clerk to bankruptcy judges serving on
appellate panels who participate in 50 or more appeals per year
in addition to that of their trial caseload.         Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
this recommendation.
                       Pro Se Law Clerks
       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
experimental program of using an attorney to process prisoner
petitions in selected district courts, initiated by the Federal
Judicial Center in 1975, had met with overwhelming
acceptance .by district judges and clerks of court. A study
undertaken by the Administrative Office revealed that under
this program cases were expedited, the time of judicial
officers was conserved, a consistency in decisions was
obtained, and the program was cost-effective. The Committee
accordingly recommended that the concept of a Pro Se Law
Clerk in district courts be recognized, that the classification
and qualification criteria used for these positions be the same
as those used for other law clerks to judges and staff law
clerks through JSP-12, and that allocation of these positions to
district courts rest primarily on an eValuation of each district's
particular caseload in the light of the duties that will actually
be performed. The Committee further recommended: (l) that
case assignments to Pro Se Law Clerks not be limited to cases
brought under 42 U.S.C. 1983, but should include all prisoner
and other inmate litigation, and (2) that initially a minimum of
300 petitions be required for inclusion of a particular district
in the program with the understanding that this requirement be
evaluated on a continuing basis as further experience is
gained.    These recommendations were approved by the
Conference.
                              72



                       Court Reporters
       Judge Hunter submitted to the Conference the various
recommendations of the Committee pertaining to United
States court reporters.         After full discussion these
recommendations were returned to the Committee for further
study. Judge Hunter requested that the chief judges of the
circuits bring these recommendations to the attention of their
respective circuit councils and provide the Committee with
each council's recommendations at an early date but not later
than December 20, 1981. A further report will be made to the
Conference at its next session.
                 Staffing of Probation Offices
       Judge Hunter submitted to the Conference a proposed
revision in the staffing formula for probation offices in the
district courts. The new formula is based on a study conducted
by the staff of the Administrative Office which included on­
site work measurements performed in 24 probation offices.
Upon the recommendation of the Committee, and the
Committee on the Administration of the Probation System, the
proposed staffing formula was approved by the Conference.
               Depositions in Foreign Countries
       The Conference in March 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 4)
disapproved as a matter of policy the practice of federal
judges traveling abroad to take testimony or depositions in
cases pending before them. Judge Hunter informed the
Conference that the Committee had reviewed this policy and
recommended that it be reaffirmed. This recommendation was
approved by the Conference.
          Judiciary Salaries and Retirement Benefits
       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that at the
request of the Chairman of the House JudiciarY's
Subcommittee on Courts, Civil Liberties, and the
Administration of Justice, the Committee had considered the
desirability of undertaking a comprehensive eValuation of
salary levels and retirement benefits available to all judicial
branch Article I judges and "supporting judicial officer!!
personnel. Specifically the Committee was asked to consider
the desirability of vesting authority in the Judicial Conference
for (1) establishing and managing a range of salaries for all
"supporting judicial officers" up to a cening established by the
Congress, and (2) correlating retirement benefits among
different groups of "supporting officers". Judge Hunter stated
                                73 



that the Committee had considered this request in three parts:
(1) the Conference authority to set salaries for those
supporting judicial officers who are not Article I judges; (2) the
desirability of Conference authority to set salaries for judicial
branch Article I judges; and (3) the desirability of formal
Conference recommendations, in a comprehensive context, to
the Congress concerning retirement benefits for all judicial
personnel.
       After full consideration the Committee determined
that, notwithstanding some difficulties, it would be desirable
for the Conference to establish a comprehensive arrangement
of basic salary levels for "supporting judicial officers" and to
set the basic salaries of Article I judges in the Judiciary. Upon
the recommendation of the Committee the Administrative
Office was directed to draft appropriate legislation in
accordance with the standards set out in the Committee's
report and to submit the proposed legislation to the Committee
for consideration at its next meeting.
       In regard to retirement benefits the Committee
concluded that further study was required. The Committee
was therefore authorized to review the matter further and if
necessary, to prepare proposed legislation which would
establish the correlation of retirement benefits among all
judicial branch personnel, other than Article III judges.
      In view of these recommendations the Conference, upon
the recommendation of the Committee, disapproved at this
time various proposals to change the salaries of circuit
executives.
                Additional Supporting Personnel
       Judge Hunter stated that the Committee had approved
the following requests for additional supporting personnel in
the various courts which were submitted to the Committee on
the Budget for inclusion in the fiscal year 1983 budget
requests:
    1. 	   One additional secretary for the staff of the
           Circuit Executive in the Eighth Circuit.
                                74 




    2. 	   One additional staff attorney and one secretary
           for the courts of appeals of the Sixth and Eighth
           Circuits.
    3. 	   Thirty-eight new librarian or assistant librarian
           positions.    The Budget Committee was
           authorized to adjust the number of positions in
           accordance with its experience with the fiscal
           year 1982 appropriations.
    4. 	   Twelve additional secretarial positions for
           secretarial pools and 4-1/2 additional clerical
           positions.
    5. 	   One permanent swing court reporter position
           for the Central District of California.
       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Committee was not at this time recommending any full-time
official employee court reporters or deputy clerk-reporters for
bankruptcy courts. These recommendations were approved by
the Conference.

                 COMMl'lTEB ON THE BUDGET
      Judge Charles E. Clark, Chairman of the Committee on
the Budget, submitted the Committee's report.
             Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1983
        The Conference approved the budget estimates for the
fiscal year 1983 prepared by the Director of the
Administrative Office and submitted by the Committee. The
budget estimates, exclusive of the Supreme Court, the Court
of International Trade, and the Federal Judicial Center,
aggregate $808,850,000, an increase of approximately
$98,347,000 over the appropriations for the fiscal year 1982,
adjusted to take into account proposed supplementals for "pay
costs".    Of this sum, $58,521,000 is for mandatory or
uncontrollable increases such as within-grade salary
advancements, fees and allowances of jurors, increases in
contract rates and charges for services and supplies, higher
postal rates, aoo the escalation in charges for the rental of
space from the General Services Administration. The Director
was authorized to amend the budget estimates because of new
legislation, actions of the Judicial Conference, or for any other
reason the Director considers necessary and appropriate.
                               75



     Supplemental Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1982
       The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Coml'!1ittee, authorized the Director of the Administrative
Office to submit to the Congress requests for supplemental
appropriations for the fiscal years ending September 30, 1982
and September 30, 1983 for "pay costs" and for the
implementation of any new legislation, actions of the Judicial
Conference, or for any other reason he considers necessary and
appropriate.
                 Standard Level User Charges

       Judge Clark informed the Conference that the Space
Survey requested by the Budget Committee and performed by
the Administrative Office, demonstrated that the General
Services Administration rates were, on the whole, comparable
with similar rates charged commercially.          He cautioned,
however, that in the past, the General Services Administration
has reviewed and adjusted rates annually on only one-third of
the space occupied by the Judiciary. The result is that rates
on some space were three years old at the time of the survey
and only now are being adjusted upward. The Committee was
advised that, henceforth, GSA plans to adjust all rates
annually. Rental charges are therefore expected to increase
approximately 19 percent in the fiscal year 1983.
        Judge Clark stated that the rates for the space occupied
by the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals will increase
approximately 121 percent during the fiscal year 1983, the
rates for the Court of Claims will increase 113 percent, and
the rental rates for the space occupied by the Administrative
Office will increase by 77 percent. In response to an appeal
from the chief judges of the two respective courts, the General
Services Administration stated that the rates for these courts
had not been increased for some time and that the ehange in
rates from $13.50 per square foot to $31.09 per square foot
reflected the inflation in commercial space costs in the
Washington, D. C. area over the past three years. The
Committee pointed out, however, that these actions unfairly
distort the budget of the Judiciary and impair the Committee's
ability to secure adequate funding for necessary programs.
The Director of the Administrative Office has been advised by
the Committee to protest the action of the General Services
Administration in assessing the Judiciary with inflated,
artificial rental costs and "special use" space charges and, if
necessary, to seek remedial legislation.
                             76



                 Work Measurement Studies

       At the request of Judge Clark the Director of the
Administrative Office was authorized to obtain outside
assistance in support of the work measurement studies being
conducted by the Administrative Office.
                   Salaries of Magistrates
       The Administrative Office had reported to the
Committee that the Judiciary may be operating under a
continuing resolution during the fiscal year 1982 until an
appropriations bill is enacted. Limitations contained in this
resolution, or in the Legislative Branch Appropriations Bill,
would limit expenditures to the rate authorized during the
fiscal year 1981 and may therefore preclude the adjustment of
the salaries of magistrates beginning on October 1, 1981 as
authorized by the Conference in March 1981. The Committee
repor~ed that funds are available in the 1981 Appropriations
Act to pay magistrates the salary increases previously
approved. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference authorized the implementation of the salary
increases previously approved for magistrates, effective
immediately.

              JUDICIAL ETHICS COMMITTEE
       Judge Edward A. Tamm, Chairman of the statutory
Judicial Ethics Committee, presented the report of the
Committee.
                Activities of the Com mittee
       Judge Tamm informed the Conference that the
Committee had received approximately 1,557 financial
disclosure reports for the calendar year 1980 including 906
reports from judicial officers and 651 reports from judicial
employees. In addition, the Committee has received 20 reports
required to be filed by nominees to judgeship positions within
five days of nomination.      All reports submitted to the
Committee were reviewed by at least one Committee member
to determine whether they were "filed in a timely manner, are
complete and are in proper form," as required by 28 U.S.C.A.
App. I 306(a).      In discharging its responsibilities, the
ComMittee writes to reporting individuals concerning errors
                                77



appearing on the face of the reporting form, sends letters to
those failing to file in a timely manner, replies to requests for
extensions of time to file and acknowledges receipt of reports
filed by nominees to judicial positions. Since its last report of
March 1981 the Committee has written a total of 547 letters
to reporting individuals, most of which involve minor omissions
on th~ reporting form, such as the failure to check a "none"
box for one or more reportable items. The Committee has
taken the position that all items on the form must be
completed.

       The Conference was informed that two judges and one
part-time magistrate had not yet filed reports for the calendar
year 1980, but that the Committee had been assured that these
reports would be filed very soon. In the absence of filing the
Committee, acting in accordance with the procedures
previously adopted by the Committee and reported to the
Conference in September 1980 (Conf. Rept., p. 76), will
consider a reference to the Attorney General under 28
U.S.C.A. App. I 304(b).
                   Disqualification of Judges

        Judge Tamm stated that reports have recently appeared
in the public press concerning judges who have allegedly sat in
cases in which they held a financial interest in one of the
parties to the litigation. In most, if not all, situations a
controlled SUbsidiary of a corporation in which the judicial
officer held a financial interest was a party and the judge was
unaware of this fact. To avoid this potential pitfall the
Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals and several courts of
appeals have adopted local rules requiring corporate parties to
litigation to furnish to the Court lists of controlled subsidiaries
and p'lrent corporations. At the suggestion of the Committee,
the Conference recommended to all courts that they adopt
local corporate financial disclosure rules comparable to those
of the Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals, or those courts
of appeals which have adopted similar rules.
                Reporting Form and Instructions

       In order that judges may be fully aware of the problem
of disqualification and that the public generally will know that
a judge having a financial interest in a corporation is not
sitting in a case involving either a parent corporation or a
controlled    subsidiary,    the    Conference,     upon     the
                               78 




recommendation of the Committee, amended the reporting
form by adding the following statement:
    ''In accordance with the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 455
    and of Advisory Opinion No. 57 of the Advisory
    Committee on Judicial Activities, and to the best of
    my knowledge at the time after reasonable inquiry, I
    did not participate in any litigation during the period
    covered by this report in which I, my spouse, or
    dependent child or children had a financial interest in
    the outcome of such litigation."
               Reports to Chief Circuit Judges
       The Conference in March 1981 (Conf. Rept. p. 26)
expressed the view that the Judicial Councils Reform and
Judicial Conduct and Disability Act of 1980 should not be used
by the Committee for the reference of questions involving the
nonfiUng of reports. Judge Tamm pointed out that the
Committee has no enforcement powers. These powers are
given to the chief judges and judicial councils of the circuits
which are responsible for the administration of the courts in
each circuit. He stated that the Committee believes that it
should report any problems arising in its review of disclosure
statements to a responsible officer or body.
       It was the view of the Conference that it would be
inappropriate for the Committee to make use of the formal
procedures of the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act. The
Committee, however, was authorized, as one of its
enforcement procedures, to make reports concerning judges
who may appear to the Committee to be acting in violation of
the Ethics in Government Act to the appropriate chief circuit
judges.
       Financial Disclosure Reports by Court Reporters
       Court reporters employed in the United States district
courts receive salaries from the government, derive
compensation from the sale of official transcripts, and, in
some instances, receive income from free-lance reporting.
Section 308(10) of the Ethics in Government Act defines a
judicial employee as "any employee of the judicial branch of
the Government who ••• receives compensation at a rate at or
in excess of the minimum rate prescribed for grade 16 of the
General Schedule..." It was the view of the Committee that
                               79 




while income from free-lance reporting is not "compensation"
within the meaning of the Act, income from the sale of official
transcripts is "compensation" under the Act. The Committee
therefore recommended that financial disclosure reports be
filed by official United States court reporters when gross
receipts from the sale of official transcripts, plus regular
salary, equal or exceed compensation at the level of Grade 16
of the General Schedule. This recommendation was approved
by the Conference.


     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
      Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the
Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct, presented the
Com mittee's report.

                 Activities of the Committee

       Judge Markey informed the Conference that since its
last report the Committee has received 15 inquiries from
persons subject to the various codes of conduct and has issued
14 advisory responses. The Committee will soon publish
opinions relating to the removal of a disqualification through a
divestiture of an impeding interest, political activity of
spouses, and disqualification when a former judge of a court
appears as counsel in a case before that court.
                     Membership in Clubs

       Judge Markey also informed the Conference that an Ad
Hoc Committee of the American Bar Association Division of
Judicial Administration had considered the commentary to
Canon 2 of the Code of Judicial Conduct for United States
Judges relating to club memberships, which was approved by
the Conference in March 1981 (Conf., Rept., p. 27). The report
of that Committee is now under consideration by the Division
of Judicial Administration, but a report to the ABA House of
Delegates is not expected until February 1982 at the earliest.
                               80



      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
           FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM
      The report of the Committee on the Federal
Magistrates System was .presented by the Chairman, Judge
Otto R. Skopil, Jr.
          Report on the Federal Magistrates System

       Judge Skopil presented to the Conference a
comprehensive study of the Federal magistrates system which
had been prepared by the Division of Magistrates of the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts under the
direction and guidance of the Committee.          The Federal
Magistrate Act of 1979 requires the Conference to submit such
a report to the Congress by January 1982.            Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference approved
the report and authorized the Committee to make stylistic and
editorial corrections and refinements of a nonsubstantive
nature prior to the submission of the report to the Congress in
December 1981.
                  Habeas Corpus Legislation

       S. 653 and H.R. 3416, 97th Congress, are bills to limit
the jurisdiction of the Federal courts and the role of United
States magistrates in habeas corpus proceedings challenging
convictions in state courts.       The bills would repeal the
statutory authority of a district judge to designate a
magistrate to conduct hearin~ in a state habeas corpus case
under 28 U.S.C. 2254. The Senate bill would further eliminate
the authority of a magistrate to conduct an evidentiary hearing
on any prisoner petition, state or federal, challenging
conditions of confinement. In addition to these provisions the
bills would also (1) cOdify the "contemporaneous objection" rule
of Wainwright v•.Sy,kes, 433 U.S. 72 (1977); (2) create a three­
year statue of IImltations on habeas corpus petitions from
state court convictions; and (3) prohibit relitigation in Federal
courts of factual determinations made by state judges unless
specific, strict criteria are met.
                                       81



       Judge Skopil stated that the Committee had considered
only those provisions of the bill relating to restrictions on the
jurisdiction of magistrates and was of the view that they are
undesirable. The 1976 amendments to the Federal Magistrates
Act specifically authorized a magistrate to conduct an
evidentiary hearing in any case filed in the court. The
Committee was of the view that the paring away of the
authority of the court to use magistrates in specific categories
of cases would unduly limit the flexibility that has been one of
the major reasons for the system's success to date. The
Committee accordingly recommended, as a matter of policy,
that the Conference oppose the provisions of these bills
relating to the jurisdiction of magistrates.                 This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.
              Salaries of Part-Time Magistrates

       Judge Skopil informed the Conference that some
confusion has resulted from the misnumbering in the Federal
Register of the 15 standard salary levels for part-time
magistrates approved by the Conference in September 1979
(Conf. Rept., p. 83). While the amounts of the salaries shown
in the Conference report and in the Federal Register are
identical, the Conference report designates the highest salary
as "Level 15" and the Federal Register shows the same salary
as lILevel I". Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference authorized the republication of the The Salary
Schedule for Part-Time Magistrates in this report, as follows:
         Level   15••.•••.••.••.•..             $24,250
         Level   14................              23,100
         Level   13•••••.••.•••.••.              20,300
         Level   12................              17,900
         Level   11 ................             15,500
         Level   10................              13,600
         Level   9••••••••.•••••••               11,800
         Level   8...............•               10,000
         Level   7•••••.••.••.••.•                8,200
         Level   6 .....•..........               6,400
         Level   5.....•..........                4,500
         Level   4 ................               3,600
         Level   3 ........•.......               2,700
         Level   2................                1,800
         Level    1•••..•.•••..••••                 900
                              82



                Changes in Magistrates Positions
       After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts and the judicial councils of the
circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
magistrate positions. Unless otherwise indicated these changes
are to become effective when appropriated funds are
available. The salaries of full-time magistrate positions are to
be determined in accordance with the salary plan previously
adopted by the Conference.
                        FIRST CIRCUIT
Maine
    (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
         position at Portland from $15,500 to $17,900 per
         annum.
Massachusetts
    (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
         Worcester/Ayer for an additional four-year term.
    (2) 	 Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Worcester/Ayer from $20,300 to $13,600
          per annum.
                      SECOND CIRCUIT

Southern District of New York
    (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
         position at Poughkeepsie from $8,200 to $10,000 per
         annum.
                       THIRD CIRCUIT

New Jersey
    (1) 	 Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at
          Trenton at a salary of $13,600 per annum.
                                83



                       FOURTH CIRCUIT

Southern District of West Virginia
    (l) 	 Continued      the part-time magistrate position at
            Bluefield for an additional four-year term.
    (2) 	 Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Bluefield from $1,800 to $900 per annum.
                         FIFTH CIRCUIT

Northern District of Florida

    (1) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
            position at Panama City from $4,500 to $10,000 per
            annum.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Gainesville for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $2,700 per annum.
Southern District of Florida

    (1) 	 Changed     the official location of the full-time
            magistrate position at West Palm Beach to Fort
            Lauderdale.
    (2) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Key West from $2,700 to $6,400 per
          annum.
Northern District of Georgia
    (l) 	 Continued      the full-time magistrate position at
            Atlanta which is due to expire on October 22, 1982
            for an additional eight-year term.
Western District of Louisiana
    (1) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
            Shreveport for an additional eight-year term.
Western District of Texas

   (l) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
            position at Eagle Pass from $15,500 to $17,900 per
            annum.
                               84



                        SIXTH CIRCUIT 

Eastern District of Kentucky
    (1) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate position at
          London for an additional four-year term.
    (2) 	 Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at London from $10,000 to $6,400 per annum.
Western District of KentUCky
    (1) 	 Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Hopkinsville from $23,100 to $25,950 per
          annum.
Northern District of Ohio
    (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Lima
          for an additional four-year term.
    (2) 	 Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Lima from $1,800 to $900 per annum.

                       SEVENTH CIRCUIT
Central District of illinois
    (1) 	 Authorized the part-time magistrate at Rock Island
          to exercise jurisdiction in the Southern District of
          Iowa.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at
          Peoria for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $6,400 per annum.

Southern District of Indiana

    (1) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate position at
          Muncie for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.
                                  85



                       EIGHTH CmCUIT

Eastern District of Missouri

    (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Ozark
          National Scenic Riverways for an additional four­
          year term.
    (2) 	 Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate
          position at Ozark National Scenic Riverways from
          $6,400 to $1,800 per annum.
                        NINTH CmCUIT

Arizona
    (I) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate position at
          Douglas (or Bisbee) for an additional four-year term
          at the currently authorized salary of $10,000 per
          annum.
    (2) 	 Authorized the part-time magistrate at Yuma to
          exercise jurisdiction in the Central and Southern
          Districts of California.

Southern District of California
    (I) 	 Converted the part-time magistrate position at San
          Diego to full-time status.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at San
          Diego at the currently authorized salary of $25,950,
          until the appointment of the full-time magistrate.

Montana

    (1) 	 Continued   the part-time magistrate position at
          Bozeman for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.

Nevada
    (1) 	 Converted the primary part-time magistrate position
          at Reno to full-time status.
                                86



    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Las
          Vegas for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $900 per annum.
    (3) 	 Discontinued the "back-up" part-time magistrate
          position at Reno and the part-time magistrate
          position at Elko upon the appointment of the fuU­
          time magistrate.
Western District of Washington

   (1) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Mt.
            Rainier National Park for an additional four-year
            term at the currently authorized salary of $15,500
            per annum.
                         TENTH CIRCUIT

Wyoming
    (1) 	   Authorized the clerk-magistrate at Cheyenne to
            perform the duties of a part-time magistrate for an
            additional four-year term at the currently authorized
            salary of $11,350 per annum for magistrate duties.
    (2) 	 Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
          Lander, Casper and Green River for additional four­
          year terms at the currently authorized salaries of
          $2,700, $900 and $900 per annum, respectively.

             COMMrrTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION 

                OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM 


      Judge Robert E. Merhige, Jr., presented the report of
the Committee in the absence of the Chairman, Judge Robert
E. DeMascio.

               Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges

        The Conference considered the Committee!s report,
together with the recommendations of the Director of the
Administrative Office, and the recommendations of the circuit
councils concerned, and took the following action relating to
bankruptcy judge positions and changes in salaries and
arrangements. The Conference further directed that these
actions become effective when appropriated funds become
availflble.
                                  87



                         FOURTH CIRCUIT

Eastern District of North Carolina
    (I) 	 Authorized an additional full-time bankruptcy judge
            position at Wilson at the currently authorized
            statutory salary; .

    (2) 	 Designated Wilson as the headquarters for the full­
          time position;

    (3) 	 Established concurrent district-wide jurisdiction with
          the existing full-time bankruptcy judge position for
          the district.
                          FIFTH CIRCUIT

Northern District of Alabama

    (1) 	 Authorized the transfer of the headquarters of the
            full-time bankruptcy judge position from Birmingham
            to Tuscaloosa and the transfer of the headquarters of
            the part-time position from Tuscaloosa to
            Birmingham subject to the approval of the Judicial
            Council of the Eleventh Circuit.
                          SIXTH CIRCUIT
Eastern District of Tennessee
    (1) 	   Designated Athens as a place of holding bankruptcy
            court for the Southern Division in addition to
            Chattanooga and Winchester.
                         TENTH CIRCUIT

Utah

   0) 	 Authorized an additional full-time bankruptcy judge
            position at the currently authorized statutory salary;

   (2) 	 Designated Salt Lake City as the headquarters for
         the full-time position;

   (3) 	 Established concurrent district-wide jurisdiction with
         the existing full-time bankruptcy judge position for
         the district.
                              88



             study of Bankruptcy Judge Positions
       Judge Merhige informed the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed the status of the study being
conducted by the Bankruptcy Division of the Administrative
Office to determine the number of bankruptcy judges required
in 1984.       Approximately 100 bankruptcy judges have
participated in a 12-week time study, the results of which will
be coordinated with other avanable data to develop a series of
case weights to be applied to the projected workload in each
district. The time study was conducted under the auspices of
the Federal Judicial Center.
          COM~EONTBEAD~RAfiON
                OF THE PROBAfiON SYSTEM

      The report of the Committee on the Administration of
the Probation System was presented by the Chairman, Judge
Gerald B. Tjofiat.
                     Sentencing Institutes
       The Conference in March 1981 (Conf. Rept., p. 35) had
approved a tentative agenda for a Joint Institute on Sentencing
for the judges of the Second Circuit to be held November 12­
13, 1981 in the vicinity of the Federal Correctional Institution
at OtisvnIe, New York. Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference approved the final agenda
submitted by the Committee and, subject to the avanabnity of
funds, authorized the attendance of newly-appointed district
judges from the First, Third, Fourth, and District of Columbia
Circuits at this Institute. The Conference further authorized
the attendance of full-time magistrates from the Second
Circuit who have sentencing responsibnities.

       The Conference also authorized the convening of a Joint
Institute on Sentencing for the judges of the Eighth and Tenth
Circuits to be held in Springfield, Missouri in Apru, 1982. A
final agenda will be presented by the Committee to the
Conference at its next session.
      Judge Tjofiat informed the Conference that the
Committee in the exercise of its oversight responsibility for
the planning and conduct of Sentencing Institutes had
developed a format for federal sentencing institutes that will
focus more clcsely on the problems of a sentencing judge in
                               89 




framing a sentence. The new format will be made available to
all planning groups for their use in devising programs for
sentencing institutes.
                Sentencing Reform Act of 1981

       S. 1555, 97th Congress, is a bill to improve the
effectiveness of federal crime control in the areas of
sentencing and for other purposes. It would establish an
independent Sentencing Commission charged with the
responsibility of promulgating guidelines for the use of district
judges in determining sentences to be imposed upon convicted
criminal defendants. The sentencing judge would be required
to select the type of sanction (imprisonment, fine or probation)
and to sentence the defendant within the maximum-minimum
range specified by the Commission'S guidelines unless the judge
found "that an aggravating or mitigating circumstance exists
that was not taken into consideration by the Sentencing
Commission in formulating the guidelines." The bill would also
provide for appellate review of felony sentences falling outside
the guidelines, except those in which the sentences resulted
from a Rule 11 plea agreement. Finally, the bill would require
the Sentencing Commission to monitor sentencing practices in
the district courts and would authorize the Commission to
conduct training programs, seminars, and workshops for judges
and probation officers to instruct them in the application of
the sentencing guidelines. The purpose of the legislation is to
eliminate unwarranted sentencing disparity.

        The Conference in April 1976 (Conf. Rept., p. 10)
considered a similar bill, S.2699, 94th Congress, and agreed
with the views of the Committee on the Administration of the
Probation System and the Committee on the Administration of
the Criminal Law that there is no need for the creation of a
separate Sentencing Commission and that a straight-forward
review of sentences, whether by appellate review or by a panel
of three judges, is to be preferred over the proposed
legislation. The Committee pointed out that a Sentencing
Commission would needlessly duplicate much of the work
already being performed within the Judicial Branch in the
conduct of Sentencing Institutes and in the compilation of
sentencing data by the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts and the Federal Judicial Center. Furthermore, a
Sentencing Commission would duplicate the cooperative
 efforts of the Probation Committee, the Administrative
Office, and the Federal Judicial Center in developing a
                               90



Probation Information Management System (PIMS), a project
which is now under way. The Committee was further of the
view that a straight-forward appellate review of sentences
would be preferable to the piecemeal review provided in the
bill. Although some form of review of sentences is necessary
to reduce unwarranted disparity, the method of review,
whether in the courts of appeals or by a panel of three district
judges, as previously recommended by the Conference should
be prescribed by legislation. In this regard the Committee is
prepared to request the Federal Judicial Center to conduct
research on the practical impact of any suggested method of
review on the operation of the Federal courts.               On
recommendation of the Committee the Conference
disapproved S. 1555 and the sentencing provisions of S. 1630,
97th Congress, which are practically identical to those of S.
1555. S. 1630 was introduced on September 17, 1981, and was
commented upon by Judge Tjofiat in his report to the
Conf erence.

      The Conference authorized the Committee to monitor
the progress of these bills or any similar legislation in the
Congress and to communicate to the appropriate Congressional
Committees any modifications in the legislation that would
remove the objections specified in the Committee's report.
                Mandatory Minimum Sentences
       H.R. 27, 97th Congress, would amend Chapter 44 of
Title 18, United States Code, to extend and strengthen the
mandatory penalty feature for the use of firearms in. Federal
felonies and for other purposes. It was the view of the
Committee that no additional sanctions are necessary and that
a change in the long-standing policy of the Conf erence
opposing mandatory minimum sentences is not warranted. The
Conference disapproved the bill.

          Probation Information Management System

       Judge Tjofiat stated that work on the development of a
Probation Information Management System (PIMS) is
proceeding satisfactorily and that a statement of user
information requirements is nearly completed. The Committee
recently held a special session to review a Sentence
Comparison Report, designed principally by the Federal
Judicial Center, which would provide the sentencing judge with
a statement of the range of sentences given to defendants
                               91



whose offender and offense profiles are similar to those of the
person to be sentenced. This Sentence Comparison Report will
be included in the PIMS system.
                   Pretrial Services Agencies
       S. 923, 97th Congress, a bill to establish pretrial
services agencies on a national basis, passed the Senate on
June 18, 1981, and a similar bill, H.R. 3481, has cleared the
House Judiciary Committee. H.R. 3481, however, has not been
scheduled for full House action because of attempts to join it
with proposals to amend the Bail Reform Act. Judge Tjoflat
advised the Conference that sufficient funds are available to
operate existing pretrial services agencies for approximately
three-fourths of the fiscal year 1982. The Committee is
hopeful that legislation will be enacted before available funds
are exhausted.
                  Narcotic Aftercare Program
       The Conference in March 1981 (Conf. Rept., p. 36)
approved a draft bill to continue funding for the Narcotic
Aftercare Program in an amount to be determined by the
appropriations process. A bill, H.R. 3963, 97th Congress, was
thereafter introduced to extend the drug aftercare program
beyond September 1982. Following hearings of the bill, the
House Subcommittee on Crime reported a clean bill which
would extend authorization of the program for three more
years.
                   Probation Office Positions
       Judge Tjoflat stated that the Committee had endorsed
the recommendation of the Committee on Court
Administration that the Conference approve the staffing
formcta developed through the work measurement study
conducted by the Administrative Office. This is a replacement
for the current staffing formula for probation offices and the
Committee authorized the Administrative Office to use the
formula for authorizing and allocating positions. He also
stated that the chief judges of the district courts had projected
a need for an additional 319 positions in the probation offices
for the fiscal year 1983, but that the Committee had endorsed
a 1983 request for only 219 positions, including 126 probation
officers, 83 clerks and 10 probation officer assistants.
                               92



      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                  CRIMINAL LAW

      Judge Alexander Harvey II, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Criminal Law, presented the
Committee'S report.

                    Speedy Trial Guidelines
       The Conference in March 1981 (Conf. Rept., p. 38),
authorized the Committee to continue to issue revisions and
amendments to the publication entitled "Guidelines to the
Administration of the Speedy Trial Act of 1974." Judge
Harvey informed the Conference that the Committee has
adopted a number of additional amendments which will soon be
distributed to Federal judges, magistrates, clerks of court and
other court officials.
                          Bail Reform
       The Committee reported that various bills have been
introduced in the United States Senate to amend the Bail
Reform Act of 1966, including S. 440, S. 482. S. 954. S. 439.
and S. 1253, 97th Congress. The primary purpose of each of
these bills is to impose greater restrictions on the release of
defendants prior to trial and to enable federal judicial officers
to consider "dangerousness" as a factor in determining the
appropriateness of a defendant's pretrial release.
       The Conference in October 1971 (Conf. Rept., p. 40)
endorsed an amendment to the Bail Reform Act to authorize
consideration of "danger to other persons or the community" in
the setting of conditions of pretrial release. A similar
recommendation was reaffirmed by the Conference at its
session in March 1977 (Conf. Rept., p. 17).

       Judge Harvey informed the Conference that, after
consideration of the various bills now pending in Congress, the
Committee voted to recommend that the Conference reaffirm
its previous position and once again urge Congress to adopt a
relatively uncomplicated amendment to the Act by adding as
one of the factors to be considered by a judicial officer in
determining conditions of release pending trial "the safety of
any other person or the community." This recommendation
was approved by the Conference.
                               93 




                Mandatory Minimum Sentences

        Judge Harvey stated that numerous bills have been
introduced in the 97th Congress to provide for mandatory
minimum sentences in certain types of criminal cases. In
addition to requiring the imposition of a mandatory minimum
sentence in particular cases and prohibiting the granting of
probation, several bills provide that the defendant shall not be
eligible for parole. Judge Harvey pointed out that the Judicial
Conference has consistently opposed legislation of this sort.
Statutes of this type limit judicial discretion in the sentencing
function and tend to increase the number of criminal trials and
the number of appeals in criminal cases.               Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference reaffirmed
its opposition to legislation requiring the imposition of
mandatory minimum sentences.
        Commitment of Mentally Incompetent Persons

       S. 1106 and H.R. 112, 97th Congress, would amend Title
18, United States Code, to improve the system dealing with
mentally incompetent persons charged with offenses against
the United States. In April 1976 (Conf. Rept., p. 11) the
Conference endorsed a proposal of the Committee to amend
Title 18, United States Code, by adding a new Chapter 313
which would provide, inter alia, for the civil commitment,
after hearing with due process safeguards, of a defendant who,
having been charged with an offense against the United States,
is acquitted after raising the defense of lack of criminal
responsibility and who is further found by reason of mental
disease or defect to be a danger to himself or others. In March
1977 (Conf. Rept., p. 18) the Conference approved various
amendments      to the proposed legislation previously
recommended by the Committee.
       Judge Harvey stated that it was the view of the
Committee that there is a genuine need for legislation of this
sort providing for the Federal commitment of mentally
incompetent persons. It was the view of the Committee that
the bill previously endorsed by the Conference is superior to
either S. 1106 or H.R. 112. The Conference, upon the
recommendation of the Committee, reaffirmed its approval of
the draft bill submitted by the Committee and authorized its
transmission to the Congress.
                               94



                       Speedy Trial Act

       The Conference in March 1981 (Conf. Rept., p. 39)
directed the Committee to consider whether the provisions of
the Speedy Trial Act which set a minimum 30-day period for
the SE"tting of a criminal trial should be repealed and to report
its recommendations to the Conference at its next session.
Judge Harvey stated that this provision of the Speedy Trial Act
had originally been recommended by a special Ad Hoc
Subcommittee of the Committee on Court Administration and
that the proposal had been approved by the Conference in
September 1977 (Conf. Rept., p. 53) and again in March 1978
(Conf. Rept., p. 29). At the Senate hearings on the Speedy
Trial Act Amendments Act of 1979, the Department of
Justice, along with representatives of the JUdicial Conference,
supported a 30-day minimum period of time before trial.
       Judge Harvey pointed out that the 30-day minimum
period before trial assures the defendant a reasonable length of
time to prepare his case and that with the consent of the
defendant a trial may be scheduled at an earlier date. In view
of the history of this amendment to the Act, the Committee
reported that it would not recommend that the 30-day
minimum period be eliminated from the Act.
                 Protection of Federal Officers
        S. 814, H.R. 3303 and H.R. 3648, 97th Congress, are
bills to amend 18 U.S.C. 1114 to provide criminal penalties for
killings or assaults against officers or employees of the United
States. S. 814 would include members of the families of
federal officers within the scope of the legislation.
       It was the view of the Committee that legislation
previously endorsed by the Conference (Conf. Rept., Sept.
1980, p. 105) to make it a crime for a person to threaten with
bodily harm or seek to intimidate officers and employees of
the United States Courts was superior to the currently pending
bills in providing protection to judicial officers and staff
members of the courts of the United States. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference reaffirmed
its support of the previously endorsed legislation and further
endorsed the provision of S. 814, 97th Congress, making it a
crime to threaten or assault members of the family of a judge
or of other court personnel.
                              95



 COMMITl'EE ON THE OPERATION OF THE JURY SYSTEM
       Chief Judge C. Clyde Atkins, Chairman of the
Committee on the Operation of the Jury System, presented the
report of the Committee.

              Secrecy of Grand Jury Proceedings
       In its report to the Conference in March 1981 (Conf.
Rept.,    p.    39)   the   Committee submitted         various
recommendations pertaining to the secrecy of grand jury
proceedings, which were then approved by the Conference and
transmitted to district judges, the General Accounting Office,
the Department of Justice, and Committees of Congress.
However, a recommendation that all contested court
proceedings arising from or concerning ongoing grand jury
operations, except for contempt hearings as to recalcitrant
witnesses, should be conducted in a closed courtroom removed
from the hearing of the press and the public was referred back
to the Committee for further study.
       Judge Atkins pointed out that this recommendation was
intended to reflect and respond to the concerns of the General
Accounting Office that the particulars of pending grand jury
proceedings which have yet to culminate in indictments are too
often incidentally exposed to public observation and discussion
through ancillary hearings on such matters as motions to quash
subpoenas, motions for protective orders, and the immunity of
witnesses. After independent review and consideration of this
issue the Committee reported its agreement that the
premature and inadvertent revelation of grand jury business in
this manner poses a threat to the integrity of the process and
contravenes the policies underlying the traditional role of
grand jury secrecy. Furthermore the disclosure of proceedings
before the grand jury may threaten the reputations of innocent
persons who become involved in an investigation and may also
subject witnesses to intimidation and physical danger. The
Committee was therefore of the view that the district courts
should be advised to treat judicial proceedings relating to
grand jury matters as closed hearings, but that each court
should remain free to determine its own policies and to vary
them if necessary in view of the overall circumstances.
Hearings to hold a recalcitrant witness in contempt under 28
U.S.C. 1826, however, should continue to be held in open
court. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference adopted the following resolution and authorized its
distribution to all United States district judges:
                               96




    tiThe Judicial Conference recommends that all
    district court hearings on motions to quash
    subpoenas, motions for protective orders, or other
    contested matters affecting grand jury proceedings
    prior to the indictment stage should be closed to the
    public and press. An exception to this practice of
    closure should be made in the case of contempt trials
    against recalcitrant witnesses or others, which would
    appear appropriate to be conducted in open court
    under the policy of Richmond Newspapers, Inc. v.
    Virginia, 448 U.S. 555 (1980)."

             Recording of Grand Jury Proceedings

       Judge Atkins stated that the United States District
Court for the Northern District of IDinois had requested that
one of the official court reporter positions temporarily
authorized for that court by the Conference be converted to
permanent status for the purpose of serving as the "official
reporter to the grand juries of the court."          The Court
Administration Subcommittee on Supporting Personnel had
requested the Committee to consider the policy implications of
this request and to recommend to the Conference whether
there should be any change in the existing method of recording
grand jury sessions.     Rule 6, Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure, as amended in 1979, requires that all proceedings of
the grand jury, except for its deliberations and voting, shall be
recorded stenographically or by an electronic recording
device. The rule further provides that the electronic recording
or the reporter's notes and any transcript produced shall
remain in the custody or control of the attorney for the
Government unless otherwise ordered by the court. The rule,
however, does not fix the responsibility for producing such a
record.
       Prior to 1979 the recording of grand jury sessions was
optional, although many district courts by local rule or order
had required a recording. Such recordings were made by
private reporters retained under contract by the Department
of Justice and paid from its appropriations. Following the 1979
amendment to require recording, this same procedure
continued to be followed in virtually all judicial districts. Thus
the recording of grand jury sessions has not been viewed as a
function of the courts or a duty properly assignable to their
official court reporters.
                               97 




        The Committee therefore recommended that the
Conference approve the existing policy whereby the
Department of Justice shall continue to provide for the
recording of grand jury proceedings, but that judges of the
district courts be advised to administer an appropriate oath at
the beginning of each grand jury term to the individual
retained by the Department of Justice to record grand jury
proceedings as a means to assure such reporter's cognizance of
his accountability under Rule 6, Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure, to report accurately and to maintain the secrecy of
the proceedings. This recommendation was approved by the
Conference.

                       Juror Utilization
        A recent report of the General Accounting Office
concluded that there has not been much improvement in juror
utilization in the district courts over the last five years and
attributed the absence of recent improvement to a failure of
many district courts to use efficient juror utilization
procedures, a failure of circuit judicial councils to assume an
active supervisory role, anQ the lack of adequate statistical
and descriptive information on jury practices. The Committee
expre<;sed some concern about the practicality of some of the
recommendations contained in the report of the General
Accounting Office, but concurred in its conclusion that there is
room for further improvement in juror utilization. The House
Appropriations Committee has requested a report on the
results of efforts to comply with the General Accounting
Office recommendation to be submitted to the Committee
along with the fiscal year 1983 budget requests. ,

        Judge Atkins stated that the Committee has acceded to
the General Accounting Office recommendation that the
statistics measuring juror usage should be revised to focus on
the initial day of jury selection for each trial, eliminating the
length and complexity of trials as a factor in the utilization
index. The staff of the Administrative Office has been
directed to consider a new statistical format to include "first
day of triallf efficiency. Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference urged each circuit judicial council
to exercise increased oversight of the juror utilization patterns
in the district courts of the circuit and, particularly, to
conduct a training workshop on this subject for district and
bankruptcy judges in the near future.
                               98



                     Grand Jury Witnesses

       S. 988, 97th Congress, would add a new provision to
Chapter 15 of Title 18, United States Code, to allow witnesses
the assistance of counsel in the grand jury room, to require
certain notices to be given grand jury witnesses as to their
rights, and to make available the transcript of grand jury
proceedings to indicted defendants. The Committee reported
its concern with several provisions of the bill, especially the
granting of authority to permit attorneys for witnesses to be
present in the grand jury room. The Committee felt that this
proce1ure would impede the investigative process of the grand
jury, making it more closely resemble an adversary proceeding
contrary to the essential nature and historical traditions of the
grand jury system. The presence of attorneys would also make
it more difficult to maintain the secrecy of proceedings.
Judge Atkins informed the Conference that the Committee
would oppose this bill in the event its views are requested.

                 Complex Criminal Jury Trials
        The Conference in March 1981 (Conf. Rept., p. 40)
authorized the Com mittee to study the techniques of managing
a jury trial in a complicated criminal case. Judge Atkins
reported that a Subcommittee has begun this work and has
requested advice and suggestions from approximately 30
district judges who have conducted lengthy criminal trials in
the last three years. A compendium of suggested procedures
to be used in these trials will be presented to the Conference
at its next session.


       COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCurr ASSIGNMENTS
       Judge George L. Hart, Jr., Chairman of the Committee
on Intercircuit Assignments, submitted a written report to the
Conference.
                  Activities of the Committee

       During the period February 16, 1981, through August 15,
1981, the Committee recommended 84 assignments to be
undertaken by 61 judges. Of this number, 7 were senior judges,
18 were active circuit judges, 7 were active district judges, 5
were active judges of the Court of Customs and Patent
Appeals, 2 were senior judges of the Court of Claims, 7 were
                                99



active judges of the Court of Claims, 3 were active judges of
the Court of International Trade, and 1 was an active
bankruptcy judge.

       Thirty-nine judges undertook 48 assignments to the
courts of appeals, and 9 judges undertook 12 assignments to the
district courts. In addition, one active district judge was
assigned to the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, five
active judges of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals
were assigned to serve on the Court of Claims, seven active
judges of the Court of Claims were assigned to the Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals, and the ten active judges of the
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit were
assigned to serve on the Temporary Emergency Court of
Appeals. One active bankruptcy judge was assigned to perform
duties in a United States Bankruptcy Court outside his circuit.

             Guidelines for Intercircuit Assignments

        Since its last report to the Conference the Committee,
with the approval of the Chief Justice, has revised the
guidelines for intercircuit assignments. The new guidelines are
as follows:

    1. 	   A circuit which lends active judges on intercircuit
           assignments will not be permitted to borrow judges
           from another circuit.

    2. 	   A circuit which borrows active judges by intercircuit
           assignment will not be permitted to lend active
           judges for assignment to another circuit.
    3. 	   The lender/borrower rule does not apply to senior
           judges, circuit or district.

    4. 	   When active judges are borrowed or lent for a
           particular case or cases, for example because of
           disqualification of judges in the borrowing circuit to
           hear the case or cases, the lender/borrower rule will
           not apply.

    5. 	   The 750-mile travel limitation does not apply to
           judges who are assigned to work on circuit courts.
                               100



    6. 	   A judge assigned to work on the general calendar of a
           district court must serve at least two weeks if the
           travel is less than 750 miles and for at least one
           month if the travel exceeds 750 miles.

    7. 	   The borrower/lender rule does not apply to the Court
           of Claims, the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals,
           and to the Court of International Trade.

    8. 	   On assignments to either a circuit or district court,
           judges may take either a law clerk or a secretary;
           reimbursement for additional supporting personnel is
           not permitted. The court to which a judge is assigned
           is expected to furnish any additional supporting
           personnel needed.

    9. 	   Until the calendar condition of the Ninth Circuit
           improves, no judge, circuit or district, active or
           senior may be assigned outside the circuit.


COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT

      Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the Committee
to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented the report of
the Committee.
                   Appointments and Payments
       Judge MacBride submitted to the Conference a
summary report on appointments and payments under the
Criminal Justice Act for the six-month period October 1, 1980
through March 31, 1981. The report indicated that $29,500,000
was available at the beginning of the current fiscal year for
the implementation of the Criminal Justice Act including an
appropriation of $24,000,000 and a surplus carried forward
from the fiscal year 1980 of $5,500,000. Projected obligations
during the fiscal year 1981 are $27,500,000. During the first
half of the fiscal year approximately 21,200 persons were
represented under the Criminal Justice Act compared to
20,671 during the first half of the fiscal year 1980, an increase
of Vi percent. It is anticipated that the total number of
appointments during the fiscal year 1981 will be 43,500, an
increase of 1.4 percent over the 42,900 appointments made
during the fiscal year 1980.          Federal Public Defender
organizations and Community Defender organizations
represented 11,187 persons during the first half of the year, or
52.8 percent of total representations.
                              101 




           Budget Requests - Federal Public Defenders

      The Criminal Justice Act, as amended, requires each
Federal Public Defender organization, established pursuant to
18 U.S.C. 3006A(hX2)A, to submit a proposed budget to be
approved by the Judicial Conference in accordance with 28
U.S.C. 605.      The Conference approved the following
supplemental and annual budgetary requests for these offices:
                         Supplemental              Budget
                           Requests               Requests
Public Defender          Approved for            Approved for
 Organization             F.Y. 1982               F.Y. 1983

Arizona                          .........
                                ,.                 $814,388
Calif ornia, N.                $50,548               746,492
California, E.                  ..........           654,428
Calif ornia, C.                      59,893        1,529,959
Colorado                        ...........          321,599
Connecticut                     ..........           283,533
Florida, N.                     ..........           179,734
Florida, M.                     ..........           460,378
Florida, S.                    148,000               701,439
Georgia, S.                     64,184               240,303
Illinois, C. &. S.              ..........           151,610
Kansas                          ..........           329,141
Kentucky, E.                    .- ........          256,072
Louisiana, E.                   ..........           302,288
Maryland                         31,942              529,957
Massechusetts                   ..........           302,031
Minnesota                       ..........           180,985
Missouri, w.                    ..........           452,099
Nevada                          ...........          319,124
New Jersey                      ...........          593,385
New Mexico                      ..........           257,507
Ohio, N.                        ..........           259,795
Puerto Rico                          37,418          335,224
Pennsylvania, W.                ..........           277,644
South Carolina                       24,800          265,726
Tennessee, M.                   ..........           213,299
Tennessee, W.                        27,741          166,709
Texas, S.                       ..........           554,745
Texas, W.                       ..........           567,219
Virgin Islands                  ...........          396,360
West Virginia, S.               ..........           150,888
Washington, W.                  ..........        (Deferred)

   Total                      $444,526           $12,794,061
                              102



       The Committee was authorized to consider further the
budget request for the Federal Public Defender for the
Western District of Washington and to report thereon at the
next session of the Conference.

    Grant Requests - Community Defender Organizations
        The Conference approved supplemental funding for the
fiscal year 1982 for the Federal Defender Program, Inc. of the
Northern District of Georgia in the amourt of $21,982 and for
the Federal Defender Inc., of the District of Oregon in the
amount of $61,535. This additional funding for the Community
Defender for the District of Oregon will provide for the
continuation of the branch office in Eugene, Oregon previously
approved by the Conference, and for other purposes including
the acquisition of word processing equipment. This equipment
will not be acquired without the prior approval of the
Administrative Office.

       The Conference approved sustaining grants for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 1983, for the seven
community defender organizations as follows:
    Federal Defenders of San Diego,Inc.           $971,964
    Federal Defender Program, Inc.
     Atlanta, Georgia                              290,744
    Federal Defender Program, Inc.
     Chicago, Illinois                             545,796
    Legal Aid and Defender Association
     of Detroit, Michigan,
     Federal Defender Division                     648,613

    The Legal Aid Society of
     New York, Federal Defender
     Services Unit                                1,443,903
    Federal Defender Inc.,
     Portland, Oregon                              442,234
    Defender Association of
     Philadelphia, Federal
     Court Division                                482,324
      TOTAL                                     $4,805,578
                                 103



       Authorization for the Payment of Transcript Costs
       Judge MacBride stated that the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts has under consideration the
delegation of authority to clerks of court to pay vouchers
covering the cost of transcripts ordered by counsel appointed
under the Criminal Justice Act. The vouchers would be subject
to a post-payment audit by the Administrative Office. If the
Administrative Office decides to adopt this procedure, a new
CJA Form 24, Authorization and Voucher for Payment of
Transcript, would be required, and a change to the present CJA
Form 21, Authorization and Voucher for Expert and Other
Services, would also be required. The Conference, upon the
Committee's recommendation, authorized the Director of the
Administrative Office to decentralize toe payment of claims
for transcript services under the Criminal Justice Act, and
approved the new CJA Form 24 and an amended CJA Form 21.
       The Conference also amended Paragraph 2.27 A of the
Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act
to read as follows:
    A. Reimbursement for Transcripts.

    The cost of court authorized transcripts may be
    claimed as a reimbursable expense, as provided for in
    Subsection (d)(!) of the Criminal Justice Act (but see
    paragraph 3.12 of these Guidelines.) Claims for
    reimbursement for payments for transcripts
    authorized by the court should be submitted on CJA
    Form 24. (See Appendix A.)

 COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

    Judge Edward T. Gignoux, Chairman of the Committee
on Rules of Practice and Procedure, presented the
Committee's report.
           Amendments to the Criminal Rules and
              the Rules Governing Procedures in
       Section 2254 Cases and Section 2255 Proceedings
        Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved proposed amendments to Rules 1, 5(b),
9(a), 9(b)(l), 9(b)(2), 9(c)(l) and 9(c)(2), 9(d)-abrogated, ll(c)(l),
                                 104



Il(c)(4), 11(c)(5), 20(b), 40(d)(I), 40(d)(2), 45(a), 54(a), 54(b)(4),
and 54(c) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure; an
amendment to Rule- 2(c) of the Rules Governing Section 2254
Cases in the United States District Courts; and an amendment
to Rule 2(b) of the Rules Governing Section 2255 Proceedings.
Included are proposed amendments to the forms for Section
2254 cases and Section 2255 proceedings. These proposed
amendments are accompanied by Advisory Committee notes
which explain their purpose and intent.
       Judge Gignoux stated that the proposed amendments are
IItechnicalll in nature and are reported to be noncontroversial.
They would update the criminal rules in the light of the 1979
amendments to the Federal Magistrates Act, correct some
inaccuracies, and simplify some procedures. The proposed
amendment to Rule 20, which does involve a matter of
substance, was submitted to the tench and bar for comment in
November 1979. The Advisory Committee reported that the
amendment had met with unanimous approval. The proposed
amendments to the rules governing Section 2254 and Section
2255 proceedings and the corresponding changes in the forms
would eliminate the requirement that petitions be "sworn toll
and would provide that the signing of the petition is "under
penalty of perjury". See 28 U.S.C. 1746.
      Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference authorized the transmission of these proposed
amendments to the Supreme Court for its consideration with a
recommendation that they be approved by the Court and
transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law.
                    Federal Rules of Evidence

       Recently a small group of judges, practicing attorneys,
and academicians convened in Williamsburg, Va. under the
auspices of the Federal Judicial Center to review the operation
of the Federal Rules of Evidence during the six years the rules
have been in effect. The group concluded that the Evidence
Rules have been an outstanding success and are working
extremely well. Some problems have arisen which should be
addressed, but the group concluded that there is no problem
serious enough to require any immediate or emergency
action. It was the view of the Committee that the time has
now arrived to reactivate an Advisory Committee on the
Federal Rules of Evidence to review the forthcoming report on
the Williamsburg Conference and to consider various proposals
                             105



for rwes changes recommended in legal literature. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Chief Justice was
requested to reconstitute an Advisory Committee on the
Federal Rwes of Evidence.
                      Bankruptcy Rwes
       Judge Gignoux advised the Conference that the
Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rwes has met on eight
separate occasions and has made substantial progress in its
work of drafting rwes governing cases and proceedings under
the new Bankruptcy Code. n·e Comm ittee has schedwed
seven more meetings extending into 1982 and will circulate
draft rwes to the bench and bar for comment, probably in May
1982. The Advisory Committee hopes to complete its work on
these new rwes in time for them to become effective on March
1, 11184 when the new Bankruptcy Code becomes fwly
effective.
                         Civil Rwes

      In June 1981 the Advisory Committee on the Federal
Rwes of Civil Procedure circwated to the bench and bar for
comment proposed amendments to various rwes of civil
procedure. Public hearings on these proposed amendments are
schedwed to be held in Washington, D.C. on October 16, 1981,
and in Los Angeles, California on November 6, 1981. The
Advisory Committee will meet again in January 1982 to
consider the comments received.
        Judge Gignoux also informed the Conference that the
Advisory Committee on Civil Rwes is studying a proposed
amendment to Rwe 4, Federal Rwes of Civil Procedure,
pertaining to service of process. There is urgency to this
endeavor because of the desire of the United States Marshals
Service to discontinue the service of process in private civil
litigation for lack of funding. A proposed amendment to Rwe
4 will be submitted to the Conference for consideration at its
next session.

                       Appellate Rwes

      The Advisory Committee on the Federal          Rwes of
Appellate Procedure has under consideration           proposed
amendments to the appellate rwes required by         the new
Bankruptcy Code and the Federal Magistrates Act of   1979, and
                              106



Bankruptcy Code and the Federal Magistrates Act of 1979, and
in particular is studying the separate appendix requirement of
present Rule 30, F .R.A.P.        Because of a shortage of
appropriated funds the Committee has held only one meeting
during the current fiscal year, but plans to meet again after
October 1, 1981.


      IMPLEMENTATION COMMl'ITEE ON ADMISSION
        OF ATTORNEYS TO FEDERAL PRACTICE

      Judge James Lawrence King, Chairman of the
Implementation Committee on Admission of Attorneys to
Federal Practice, presented a report on the activities of the
Committee.
       During the past year, five pilot district courts have
adopted local rules implementing at least some aspect of the
Devitt Committee recommendations on the admission of
attorneys. A pilot program is currently in operation in the
District of Rhode Island. In addition (he Eastern District of
Michigan had previously adopted a local rule pertaining to
student practice, and the Western District of Texas has
adopted a local rule providing for examination and peer
review. In all but one of the 14 districts participating in the
pilot program, advisory or program committees have been
appointed, and in some courts draft rules have been prepared.
        As anticipated, various problems have arisen in the
implementation program which will require assistance to the
participating courts. The Committee has therefore adopted a
suggestion that it initiate a service to provide to the pilot
districts regular mailings including current developments,
sample local rules, examination questions, and other materials
of mutual value. The Federal Judicial Center has been asked
to provide the pilot courts with copies of its anticipated
biannual status reports, as well as to circulate throughout the
pilot districts copies of newly-received rules and other
program materials. The Committee has under consideration a
suggestion'for another seminar or meeting of representatives
of the pilot courts similar to the one held at the Federal
Judicial Center in September 1980. The Committee is also
exploring with the Administrative Office a determination of
the level of personnel and budgetary assistance required for
these programs and the extent to which such assistance can be
provided to the pilot courts out of existing appropriations.
                              107



                FUTURE OF THE JUDICIARY
       Judge J. Clifford Wallace reported to the Conference on
the status of a study of the future of the Federal Judiciary
which he agreed to undertake at the request of the Chief
Justice. The purpose of the study is to enable the Federal
Judiciary to prepare for changes that may occur in the next
twenty years. Judge Wallace calleu attention to a bill recently
introduced by Senator Howell Heflin, S. 1530, 97th Congress,
to establish a permanent Federal Court Study Commission.
Hearings on the bill are expected to be conducted later this
year.


PRETERMISSION OF TERMS OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS

       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the
pretermission of terms of the United States Court of Appeals
during the calendar year 1982 at the following locations: at
Asheville, North Carolina in the Fourth Circuit; at Kansas
City, Missouri and Omaha, Nebraska in the Eighth Circuit; and
at Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and Wichita, Kansas in the Tenth
Circuit.

            RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION
       The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for
legislative or administrative action.


                                       Warren E. Burger
                            Chief Zustice of the United States

October 27, 1981
                                                                108




                                                             INDEX 

                                                                                                                          Page

Additional Judgeships. • • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • •                                     64
Administrative Office, U. S. Courts
    Report of the Director. • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • . • • . . • • • . • •                                        57
   Special Report, Equal Employment Opportunity •••••••                                                                    57
Admission of Attorneys to Federal Practice
   Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                           106
Appellate Rules. • • . . • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . . . . • • • • • • • •                                105
Appointments and Payments, Criminal Justice Act. • . • • . . •                                                            100
Appropriations (see Budget)
Bail Reform Act:
      Bail Reform . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . . . . . .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . .               92
   Pretrial Services Agencies. • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • •                                           91
Bankruptcy Deputy Clerk, Estate Administration •••••••• •                                                                  70
Bankruptcy Rules ........................................................................                                 105 

Bankruptcy System:
   Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges .••••.•••..•••••                               86
   Com mittee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •     86
   Study of Bankruptcy Judge Positions. • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • •              88
Budget:
   Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1983 ••..••••••••••.••                             74
   Com mi ttee on, Report of. • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • . • • • . • • • • •    74
   Salaries of Magistrates. • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • •  76
   Standard Level User Charge. • • • • • • • • • • • . . . • • • • • • • • •         75
   Supplemental Appropriations for FY 1982. • • • • . • • • • • • •                  75
   Work Measurement Studies •••.•••.••••.•.•..•••.•••                                76
Budget Requests:
   Community Defender Organizations .•.•••..••••••...                               102
   Federal Public Defenders. • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • . • • • • • •    101
Child's Right to Parental Support. • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • . . . . • •       66
Circuit Councils, Juror utilization oversight ••••..•••••••                          97
Circuit Executives, Salaries of .. • .. .. • • • .. • • .. • • .. . . • . •          73
Civil Cases, Priorities on Appeal .•• . • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • •        68
Civil Process, Service of ••••••••.•••.••••.•••••••...•• 62,105
Civil Rules.. . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . ..   105
Clerks:
   Bankruptcy Deputy Clerk, Estate Administration ••••••                                                                   70
   Payment of Transcript Costs under CJA • • • • • • . • • • • • • •                                                      103
Clubs, Membership in • • . • • . • • . • • . • • . . . • • . • • • • • • • • • • . • •                                     79
Codes of Conduct:
   Activities of the Committee. • • • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • • • • •                                              79
   Committee on, Report of. . . • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • . • . • • • •                                            79
   Membership in Clubs.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                      79
                                                 109



Commitment of Mentally Incompetent Persons. • • • • • • • • • .                                93
Community Defender Organizations, Grant Requests. • • • • •                                   102
Court Administration:
  Additional Judgeships. . • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • •             64
  Additional Supporting Personnel. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                     73
  Bankruptcy Deputy Clerk, Estate Administration. • • • • •                                    70
  Child's Right to Parental Support. • • • • • • • • . • . . . • • • • • •                     66
  Committee on, Report of. • . . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 62
     Court Reporters .. "."" ..... "...... "...............                                    72 

     Depositions in Foreign Countries ••••.••.•••••• • • • • • •                              72
     Enforcement of State Custody Orders. . • • • • • • • • • . • • • •                       64
     Interlocutory Appeals. • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •         66
     Judicial Review of Denial of Veterans Claims. • • • • • • • •                            65
     Judicial Salaries and Retirment Benefits •••••••••••••                                   72
     Law Clerks for Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                    71
     Legal Size Paper •• . • . • • • • • . • • • . . . . . • • • • • • • • • . . • • • •      63
     Marshals Service. . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . . . • • • • • • • • • • • • . . •      62
     Nonappropriated Funds (Library Funds) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                      62
     Position Description for District Court
       Executives .....• ••••••.....••• " • • • • . . . • . • • . . • • • •                    68
   Priorities on Appeal •••••. • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . •              68
   Pro Se Law Clerks. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         71
   Social Security Court. . • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • . . •           67
   Staff Attorneys. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       69
   Staffing of Probation Offices •.••••. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .                      72
   Staffs of Judges. . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . . • • • • •      68
Court of Veterans Claims ••••••••••••••••••••••.••••••                                        65
Court Reporters .....••••••••.•...•••••••••....••••••                                         72
   Financial Disclosure Reports. • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • . . .                78
   Grand Jury Proceedings. • • • • • • • • • • • . . . . • • • • • • • • • . • •              96
Court Security. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   62

Courts:
   Bankruptcy:
     Law Clerks for Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • • . • . . • • • . . . •                         71
     Salaries and Arrangements. • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • . • •                  86
     Study of Bankruptcy Judge Positions ••• • • • • • • • • • . • •                           88
   Courts of Appeals, Pretermission of Terms ••.••••••••                                      107
   District Courts, Position Description for
    Court Executive ...•••••••..••••••••••...••.•••••                                          68
Criminal Jury Trials, Complex. • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 98
Criminal Justice Act:
   Appointments and Payments.. • • • • • . • . . . • • • • • • • • • • . .                    100
   Authorization for Payment of Transcript Costs. • • • • • • •                               103
   Budget Requests, Federal Public Defenders. • • • • . • • . • •                             101
   Committee on, Report of. . • . • . . . . • • • • • • . . • . • . • • • • • •               100
                                     llO



   Grant Requests, Community Defender
     Organizations .................................... .  102
Criminal Law:
   Bail Reform ....................................... .    92
   Commitment of Mentally Incompetent Persons •••••.•.      93
   Committee on, Report of ••.•.•••••..••••.••••.•••.•      92
   Manda tory Minimum Sentences •••••••••••.••••••••••      93
   Protection of Federal Officers ..•....•••••••••••••••    94
   Speedy Trial Act ••••••.•.••...••.••••.••...•..••••      94
   Speedy Trial Guidelines ••••••••••••••.••••••••••.••     92
Criminal Rules:
   Amendments to Criminal Rules and Rules Governing
      Procedures in Section 2254 Cases and Section
     2255 Proceedings •••.•••.•••.•••...••..•.•.••.•.•     103
   Recording Grand Jury Proceedings (Rule 6) ..•••••••••    96
Depositions in Foreign Countries ••••.•••.•••.•.••..••••    72
Disqualification of Judges •••••.••.••••••••.••...•••.•• 77,78
District Court Executive, Position Description •••.•••••••  68
Enforcement of State Custody Orders •.•••..•••••.•••...     64
Equal Employment Opportunity Report •••••••.•••...•.••      57
Ethics (see Judicial Ethics Committee)
Evidence Rules, Advisory Committee on .••••••.•••••..••    104
Executive Committee:
   Judicial Compensation .....••••.••.•••.•••••••••••.      59
   Judicial Survivors Annuity Act ••..•......••..•.....•    59
   Regulatory Reform Legislation •••••••.•••.•.••..•••.     60
Federal Judicial Center:
   Admission of Attorneys to Federal Practice,
     Biannual Status reports ...•.....••••..•..•...•••..   106
   Bankruptcy Time Study •..•.•••.••••...••••••••••••       88
   Pro Se Law Clerk Program ..•.....••...••.....•...•       71
   Report of .   If   ....................................... .    57
   Review of Sentences, Impact research .•..••••••..•.•            90
Federal Public Defenders, Budget Requests ••...•••••.••.          101
Federal Register, Salary Schedule for Part-Time
  Magistrates ........................................ .           81
Financial Disclosure:
   Corporate Disclosure Rules, Proposed •••..•...•.•••••           77
   Court Reporters ......•••••.....•..•...••••••••..•              78
   Form and Instructions •••.•..••••••.••••••.••.••••••            77
   JUdicial Ethics Committee Activities .•.••...•••.•••.           76
   Reports to Chief Circuit Judges .................... .          78
Foreign Countries, Depositions in ••...••.•••••••••••••••          72
Forms:
   Crim inal Justi ce Act ............................. .         103
   Financial Disclosure Report •....•••.•.....•••••••.•            77
                                                 III 



Future of the Judiciary •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                        107
General Accounting Office:
   Juror Utilization ...... " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             97
   Secrecy of Grand Jury Proceedings ••••••••••••••••••                                         95
General Services Administration, Standard Level
   User Charge. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       75
Grand Jury:
   Recording of Proceedings •••••••••..••••.•••.•.••••                                          96
   Secrecy of Proceedings ••••••••••••.•••..••.•••••••                                          95
     Witnesses .,. .••.••..•••••• ,. •••.••• ,. .•••.•• ,........                               98 

Guidelines:
    Criminal Justice Act ••••••.•••••••••.••••••••.•.•.                                          103
    Employment of Secretaries and Law Clerks. • . • • . . • . • •                                 68
    Intercircuit Assignments ••••••••••..•••••••••••••••                                          99
    Speedy Trial Act. • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • . .           92
    Staff Attorneys.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           69
Habeas Corpus Legislation. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • •                80
Intercircuit Assignments:
    Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • . • • • • . •                   98
    Guidelines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     99
Interlocutory Appeals. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            66
Judges:
    Bankruptcy:
      Arrangements for •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                            86
      Law Clerks for. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • •           71
      Study of Positions ............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        88
    Disqualification of •••.•••••••••••.••••••••.••.•••.                                          77
    Staffs of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   68
Judgeships, Additional •••••••••.••.••••••••••••••.•••.                                           64
Judicial Branch:
    Committee on, Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • •                  59
    Government Life Insurance. • • • • • • • • • • • • . . . . . . . . . • • .                    59
    Judicial Compensation. • • • • • • • • • • • . . . . • . • . . • . . • • • • •                59
    Judicial Survivors Annuities ••••••••••••••••••••••••                                         59
Judicial Conference:
    Call of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  55
    Release of Action. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           107
Judicial Ethics:
    Activities of the Committee ••••••••••••••••••••••••                                          76
    Committee on, Report of .••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                           76
    Disqualification of Judges ••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                         77
    Financial Disclosure Reports by Court Reporters ••••••                                        78
    Reporting Form and Instructions ••••••••••••••••••••                                          77
    Reports to Chief Circuit Judges .................... .                                        78
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ••••••.••••••••• 58,61
Judicial Review of Denial of Veterans Claims ••••••••••••                                         65
                             112



Judicial Salaries and Retirement Benefits .•••••..•...•••  72
Judicial Survivors Annuities •••.••..•..••.••.••....•.••   59
Judiciary, Future of ••.••.••....••••.••••.••••...•••••   107
Jury System:
    Committee on, Report of ...................... ... it  95
                                                            ••


   Complex Criminal Jury Trials ••.•.••••..•.••.•••••••    98
   Grand Jury Witnesses ... .......................... .   98
    Juror Utilization .••.•••.••..••••..••••••••...•..••   97
    Recording of Grand Jury Proceedings ••••••••••••••••   96
   Secrecy of Grand Jury Proceedings .•••...•••••.••.••    95
Law Clerks:
    Bankruptcy Judge on Appellate Panels •••••••.•••••••   71
    Judges Staffs •....•••.••••.•...••••••••••.••••••••    68
    Pro Se Law Clerks .•.•••.••••••.•.•••••..••••••••••    71
Legal Size Paper .... ............................
                                                 11   •••• 63
Legislation:
    Bail Reform Act ................................... .  92
   Child's Right to Parental Support •••••••••••.••••••••  66
   Commitment of Mentally Incompetent Persons ••••••••     93
    Enforcement of State Custody Orders ••••.•..•.••••••   64
    Federal Court Study Commission •.••..••••..••••••••   107
   Government Life Insurance •••••••.•••••••••••••••••     59
   Grand Jury Witnesses ••••.••••••••••.••••••••••••••     98
    Habeas Corpus Legislation •..••••••••••••••.•••.••.•   80
    Mandatory Minimum Sentences ..••••••••..•••••••••• 90,93
    Narcotic Aftercare Program ....••••••••••••••••••••    91
    Pretrial Services Agencies •••.••••••••••.•.•••••••••  91
    Priorities on Appeals .•••••••••••.•..••••••••••••••   68
    Protection for Federal Officers ••..•..••••••..••.•••  94
    Regulatory Reform, Judicial Review Provisions .••••.•  60
   Sentencing Reform Act of 1981 ••••.•••.••••••••••••     89
   Social Security Court ••••••••.•••••••••..••••••••.•    67
   Veterans Claims, JUdicial Review of Denial of ••••••••  65
Legislative Proposals:
   Commitment of Mentally Incompetent Persons •.••••••     93
   Judicial Compensation ••.•••••••.••.••••••.•.•.••••     59
   Judicial Salaries and Retirement Benefits ••.•••••••••  72
   Judicial Survivors Annuities Act. •••••••.••••••••••.•  59
Library Funds (Nonappropriated Funds) •••••••.•••••••...   62
Life Insurance, Government •••••••••..•••••••••.••••••     59
Magistrates Salaries •••••.•••••••••...•.••••••••...•••    76
Magistrates System:
   Changes in Magistrates Positions ••••••••••••••••••••   82
   Committee on, Report of ••..•.•••••••••.•.•••••••.•     80
    Habeas Corpus Legislation ••••••••••••••.•••••••••••   80
    Report on the Federal Magistrates System •••••.••••••  80
                                113



   Salaries of Part-Time Magistrates .................. .        81 

Magistrates System, Report to the Congress ............ .        80 

Mandatory Minimum Sentences ........................ .        90,93 

Marshals Service .....•................••••...........           62 

Mentally Incompetent Persons, Commitment of ......... .          93 

Multidistrict Litigation, JUdicial Panel on •..............   58,61 

Narcotic Aftercare Program ..................•........           91 

Nonappropriated Funds ............................... .          62 

Paper, Legal Size ................................... .          63 

Pretermission of Terms of Courts of Appeals ............ .      107 

Pretrial Services Agencies ............................ .        91 

Priorities on Appeals ................................ .         68 

Pro Se Law Clerks ................................... .          71 

Probation Information Management System ............. .          90 

Probation Offices, Staffing of ......................... .    71,91 

Probation System: 

   Com mittee on, Report of .......................... .         88 

    Mandatory Minimum Sentences ..................... .          90 

    Narcotic Aftercare Program ....................... .         91 

   Pretrial Services Agencies ......................... .        91 

    Probation Information Management System .......... .         90 

   Probation Officer Positions ........................ .        91 

   Sentencing Institutes ............................. .         88 

   Sentencing Reform Act of 1981 .................... .          89 

Protection of Federal Officers ........................ .        94 

Regulatory Reform Legislation, Ad Hoc Committee on ... .         60 

Resolution: Bankruptcy Deputy Clerk, Estate 

   Administration ................................... .          70 

Retirement Benefits ................................. .          72 

Rules: 

   Corporate Financial Disclosure ..................... .        77 

   Criminal Procedure, Recording Grand Jury 

     Proceedings (Rule 6) ............................. .        96 

Rules of Practice and Procedure: 

   Amendments to Criminal Rules and Rules 

     Governing Procedures in Section 2254 

     Cases and Section 2255 Proceedings ............... .       103 

   Appella te Rules .................................. .        105 

   Bankruptcy Rules ................................ .          105 

   Civil Rules ...................................... .         105 

   Committee on, Report of .......................... .         103 

   Evidence Rules .................................. .          104 

Salaries: 

   1\1agistrates ..................................... .      76,81 

   Salaries and Arrangements: 

     Bankruptcy Judges .....................•.........           86 

                                                 114 




      Magistrates. • • • • . • . • . . • . • • • . . . . . • . . . . . • • • • • . • • • .       82
     Salaries and Retirment Benefits of Judges. • • . . • • • • • • •                            72
Security ............................................                                            62 

Sentences, Mandatory Minimum. • • • • • • . • • . • • • • . • • • • • • •. 90,93
Sentencing Institutes ••••••••••••.••••••••••••••••••••                                88
Sentencing Reform Act of 1981 •••••..•••••••••••.•••••                                 89
Service of Process in Civil Cases •••••.•••••••••••.••••• 62,105
Social Security Court. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • 67
Speedy Trial Act:
   Amendments to the Act. . • • • • • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • •        94
   Guidelines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     92
Staff Attorneys.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        69
Standard Level User Charge • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • •                 75
State Court Support Orders, Enforcement of • • • • • • • • • • • • •                             66
State Custody Orders, Enforcement of •••••••••..•••••••                                          64
Statistics:
   Bankruptcy Courts ••••••.••••••••••••••..••.•••.••                                            58
   Courts of Appeals . • • . . • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • •           57
   Criminal Justice Act, Appointments and Payments.....                                         100
     District Courts ...................................                                         58 

   Intercircuit Assignments. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • •                 98
   Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. • • • • • • • • • • • •                           58
Supporting Personnel:
   Additional miscellaneous positions. • . • . • • • • • • • . • . • . • •                       73
   Judges' Staffs. • • • • • . . . . . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •       68
Transcript Costs, Payment of • . . • . • . • • • • . • . • . • • . • • • • • • •                103
Veterans Claims, Judicial Review of Denial of •••••••••••                                        65
Witnesses, Grand Jury ....••••.••.••••..•••.••.•..••..                                           98
Work Measurement Studies. • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • •                  76




                                       l}U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTI)!G OFFICE: J9RI          -523~8531225
