          REPORT 

           of the
    PROCEEDINGS OF THE
JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE
       UNITED STATES




        March 8-9, 1984




       Washington, D. C.
             1984
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE
   ~TEDSTATESCOURTS



        William E. Foley 

            Director 

          REPORT 

           of the 

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

       UNITED STATES 




        M~rch   8-9, 1984




       Washington, D.C.
             1984
   TBElUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331
§ 331. JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

   The Chief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the -chief judge of each
judicial circuit. and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at such
time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such confer­
ence which shall be known as the ludicial Conference of the United States. Special ses­
sions of the conference may be called by the Chief Justice at such times and places as b.
may designate.
  The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the cir­
cuit and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held
pursuant to section 333 of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for
three successive years, except that in the year following the enactment of this amended
section the judges in the first, fourth. seventh. and tenth circuits shall choose a district
judge to serve for one year. the judges in the second. fifth. and eighth circuits shall
choose a district judge to serve for two years and the judges in the third, sixth. ninth, and
District ofColum bia circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for three years.
    If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit
 is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon any other circuit or district judge from
 such circuit. Every judge summoned shall attend and. unless excused by the Chief Justice,
 shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to the needs of his
 circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of which the administration of justice in
 the courts ofthe United States may be improved_
    The Conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
  courts of the United States and prepare plans for asSignment of judges to or from circuits
  or districts where necessary. It shall also submit suggestions and recommendations to the
  various courts to promote uniformity of management procedures and the expeditious con­
  duct of court business. The Conference is authorized to exercise the authority provided in
  section 372(c) of this title as the Conference, or through a standing committee. If the
  Conference elects to establish a standing committee, it shall be appointed by the Chief
  Justice and all petitions for review shall be reviewed by that committee. The Conference
  or the standing committee may hold hearings, take sworn testimony. issue subpoenas and
  subpoenas duces tecum, and make necessary and appropriate orders in the exercise of its
  authority. Subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum shall be issued by the clerk of the Suo
  preme Court or by the clerk of any court of appeals, at the direction of the Chief Justice
. or his designee and under the seal of the court. and shall be served in the manner pro­
  vided in rule 45(c) of the Federal Rules of C'rvil Procedure for subpoenas and subpoenas
  duces tecum issued on behalf of the United States or an officer or any agency thereof.
  The Conference may also prescribe and modify rules for the exercise of the authority pro­
  vided in section 372(c) of this title. AU judicial officers and employees of the United
  States shall promptly carry into effect all orders of the Judicial CoDference or the stand­
  ing committee established pursuant to this section.

    The Conference shall also carry on a continuous study of the operation and effect ofthe
 aeneral rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as prescribed by the Su­
 preme Court for the other courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes in
 and additions to those rules as the Conference may deem desirable to promote simplicity
 in procedure, fairness in administration, the just determination of litigation. and the elim­
 ination of unjustifiable expense and delay shall be recommended by the Conference from
 time to time to the Supreme Court for its consideration and adoption, modification or re­
 jection, in accordance with law.
   The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice. report to such conference
 on matters relating to the business of the several courts of the United States. with partic­
 ular reference to cases to which the United States is a party.
   The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings of the
 Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.



                                                   iv
                             TABLE OF CONTENTS 


              REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

          JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES 


                                  March 8-9, 1984 


                                                                                    Page
Call of the Conference • . . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •        1

Report of the Director of the Administrative 

  Office of the United States Courts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               3

    Judicial Business of the Courts •••••••••••••••••••                               4

    Joint Facilities for the Administrative 

      Office and the Federal Judicial Center ••••••••••••                             4

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation •••••••••••• '.' •                         6

Committee on the Judicial Branch ••••••••••••••••••••'                                6

Committee on Court Administration • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 6

     Automation • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •     7

    Records Disposition • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •         7

    United States Courts Design Guide •••••••••••••••.                                8

    Places of Holding Court ••••••••••••••••••••••••                                  8

    Distribution of Reports. . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •          8

    Uniform Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement. • • • • • • • • •                      9

    Judicial Immunity. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •       10 

    Law Clerks and Secretaries. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            10 

    Administrative Assistants to Chief Judges • • • • • • • • • • •                  II 

    Court Reporters' Sick Leave • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . •            11 

    Court Reporters' Transcripts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            12 

Amended Discovery Rules. • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •           13 

Judicial Ethics Committee •••••••••.••••••• • • . • • • . •                          13 

Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct. • • • • • • • • • • • • •                    13 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 13 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Probation System •••••••.••••••••••••••••••••••                                    14 

    Sentencing Institutes •.••••••••••••••••••••••••                                 14 

    Appellate Review of Sentences • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              14 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Bankruptcy System •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                    15 

    Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                  15 

    Bankruptcy Statistics • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •        16 

    United States Trustees. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •          16 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Federal Magistrates System. • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            17 

    Salaries of Part-Time Magistrates. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               17 

    Expenses of Part-Time Magistrates. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 18 


                                            v
   Full-time Magistrate Positions Compensated 

     at Less Than the Statutory Maximum •••••••••••••                                                                              18 

   Authorization for Full-Time Magistrate 

     for Each District ••••••              0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   19 

   General Accounting Office Report on the 

     Federal Magistrates System. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                             20 

   Changes in Magistrate Positions ••••••••••••••••••                                                                              20 

Committee to Implement the 

 Criminal Justice Act ••• o.         0 0............. 0.......                                                                     31 

   Appointments and Payments •••••••                                       0   0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   31
   Grant Requests - Community Defender
        Organiz8 tions . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •                                                 32 

     Budget Requests - Federal Public Defenders. • • • • • • • • •                                                                 32 

     Guidelines . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                33 

   Salaries of Federal Public Defenders • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                              33 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Criminal Law . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . .                                                   34 

     Insanity Defense and Civil Commitment
        Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                34 

Committee on the Operation of the Jury System. • • • • • • • • •                                                                   34 

    Juror Utilization •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                                                34 

    Voir Dire Examination •••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                                                35 

    Grand Jury Orientation. • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                        35 

Implementation Committee on Admission 

  of Attorneys to Federal Practice •••••••••••••••••••                                                                             35 

Ad Hoc Committee on the Law Clerk 

  Selection Process ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                                                 36 

Ad Hoc Committee on American Inns of Court. • • • • • • • • • •                                                                    36 

Ad Hoc Committee on Electronic Sound Recording. • • • • • • •                                                                      37 

Court of International Trade • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                       38 

Memorial Resolution. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                     38 

Elections. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                               39 

Release of Conference Action. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                          40 





                                                   vi
                 REPORT OF THB PROCBBDINGS 

                 OF THB JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 

                     OF THB UNlTBD STATBS 


                        March 8-9, 1984

       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened
on March 8, 1984, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of
the United States, issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and continued in
session on March 9. The Chief Justice presided and the
following members of the Conference were present:

First Circuit:

    Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell             .
    Judge W. Arthur Garrity, Jr., District of Massachusetts

Second Circuit:

    Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
    Chief Judge Jack B. Weinstein, Eastern District of
      New York

Third Circuit:

    Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz
    Judge Gerald J. Weber, Western District of Pennsylvania

Fourth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
    Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., Eastern District of Virginia

Fifth Circuit:
    Chief Judge Charles Clark
    Judge Adrian G. Duplantier, Eastern District of Louisiana

Sixth Circuit:

    Chief Judge Pierce Lively
    Judge Carl B. Rubin, Southern District of Ohio·




•      Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge
       Frank J. Battisti who was unable to attend.
Seventh Circuit:

       Chief Judge Walter J. Cummings
       Chief Judge John W. Reynolds, Eastern District of
         Wisconsin

Eighth Circuit:

       Judge Gerald P. Heaney··
       Judge Albert G. Schatz, District of Nebraska

Ninth Circuit:

       Chief Judge James R. Browning
       Chief Judge Manuel L. Real, Central District of California
Tenth Circuit:

       Judge William J. Holloway···
       Chief Judge Luther B. Eubanks, Western District of
          Oklahoma

Eleventh Circuit:

       Chief Judge John C. Godbold
       Judge William C. O'Kelley, Northern District of Georgia
District of Columbia Circuit:

       Chief Judge Spottswood W. Robinson, m
       Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District of
         Columbia

Federal Circuit:

       Chief Judge Howard T. Markey




•• 	     Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge
         Donald P. Lay who was unable to attend•

••• 	    Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge
         Oliver Seth who was unable to attend.


                                 2
       Circuit Judges Arlin M. Adams, Otto R. Skopil, Jr.,
Edward A. Tamm, and Gerald B. Tjoflat; Senior Circuit Judges
John D. Butzner, Jr., and Carl McGowan; Senior District
Judges A. Sherman Christensen, Elmo B. Hunter, and Thomas
J. MacBride; and District Judges T. Emmet C1arie, Robert E.
DeMascio, and James Lawrence King, attended all or some of
the sessions of the Conference.

       The Acting Deputy Attorney General of the United
States, Honorable D. Lowell Jensen and the Director of the
United States Marshals Service, Stanley E. Morris, addressed
the Conference briefly on matters of mutual interest to the
Department of Justice and the Conference.

       The President of the American Bar Association, Wallace
D. Riley, attended the Conference briefly on the second day
and addressed the Conference on the activities of the
Association relating to improvements in the admininistration
of justice.

       William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
Director; James E. Macklin, Executive Assistant Director;
William J. Weller, Ler;is1ative Affa.irs Officer; Daniel R.
Cavan, Deputy Le~slative Affairs Officer; Deborah H. Kirk,
Chief, Office of Management Review; Professor A. Leo Levin,
Director of the Federal Judicial Center; Charles W. Nihan,
Deputy Director, attended the sessions of the Conference.
Mark W. Cannon, Administrative Assistant to the Chief
Justice, also attended the sessions of the Conference.
       The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo
Levin, presented a report on the activities of the Center.

                REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR
             OFTHEAD~RA~EOFnCE
             OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS

       The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, William E. Foley, submitted to the Conference a
brief report on the judicial business of the courts during the
calendar year 1983.




                              3

           JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

       Mr. Foley stated that appeals filed in the United States
courts of appeals during the calendar year 1983 totalled
31,800, including 1,014 appeals filed in the Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit.         There were 30,528 appeals
terminated, including 748 in the Federal Circuit, and on
December 31, 1983 there were 23,713 appeals pending
including 557 in the Federal Circuit. Excluding that circuit,
the number of appeals filed in 1983 increased 9.4 percent.

       Civil cases filed in the United States district courts in
1983 increased to a record 255,546 cases, 14.3 percent more
than in 1982 and 34.2 percent more than the number filed in
1981. There were 226,307 civil cases closed, 11.7 percent
more than the previous year, but 29,239 cases less than the
number filed. As a result, civil cases pending rose to a record
246,863 cases as of December 31, 1983.

       During the year there were 36,636 criminal cases filed
in the district courts, up 11.6 percent from the previous year.
There were 33,852 criminal cases closed, and the pending
caseload increased approximately 16 percent to 20,276 as of
December 31, 1983.

       In 1983 there were 349,148 bankruptcy petitions filed in
the bankruptcy courts, a decrease of 8.3 percent from the
previous year. There were 312,226 bankruptcy cases closed
and the number of pending petitions rose to a record 596,735 as
of December 31, 1983.

      JOINT FACILITIES FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE
      OFFICE AND THE FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER

       Mr. Foley informed the Conference that the Architect
of the Capitol was considering the prospects of constructing a
building on Capital Hill to be occupied jointly by the
Administrative Office and the Federal Judicial Center. The
Conference thereupon adopted the following resolution:
    The Administrative· Office of the United States
    Courts, established by the Congress in 1939,
    operates under the policy guidance of the Judicial
    Conference of the United States. Initially located
    in the Supreme Court Building, the growth and size


                               4
of the Administrative Office required it to acquire
additional space as early as 1954 and currently, the
Administrative Office is located in five different
buildings in downtown Washington and an adjacent
Maryland community.

The Federal Judicial Center, established fifteen
years ago as the research, training and development
arm of the Judiciary, which works in close
coordination with the Administrative Office, now
occupies three different sites in downtown
Washington.

The Judicial Conference of the United States takes
note of the fact that having these separate offices
creates a major ollstacle to the achievement of
efficiency and productivity and an undesirable
hindrance to the necessary oversight of the Chief
Justice. The Judicial Conference also notes that
the Master Plan for the United States Capitol
envisages a single office building for these purposes
to be located immediately to the east of Union
Station on land now owned by the Government.

Therefore the Judicial Conference hereby urges the
Congress to consider favorably a proposal to design
and construct a new office building on the above
mentioned site in order to bring together the offices
of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, the Federal Judicial Center, the
headquarters of the Judicial Conference of the
United States and satellite groups such as the
offices of the Clerk of the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation and the Board of
Certification for Circuit Executives.

Given the current rental scales in the District of
Columbia, it appears that the aggregate current
payments for rent would amortize the cost of a
building in a Ii ttle over 7 years.




                          5

                  JUDICIAL PANEL ON 

                MULTIDISTRICT I.JTIGATION 


       A written statement filed with the Conference by the
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation indicated that during
the year ended December 31, 1983, the Panel had acted on 17
new groups of multidistrict litigation and had ordered transfer
in 10. These 10 groups encom pass 162 separate civil actions of
which 73 were centralized for consolidated pretrial
proceedings with 89 actions already pending in the various
transferee districts at the time of transfer. The Panel denied
transfer of 39 actions.

       Since its creation in 1968 the Panel has transferred
11,186 civil actions for centralized pretrial proceedings in
carrying out its responsibilities.


          COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

      In the absence of Judge Frank M. Coffin, Chairman of
the Committee on the Judicial Branch, Judge Arlin M. Adams,
a Committee member, presented a brief oral report.

       Judge Adams stated that the Committee had recently
met to formulate plans for a presentation to be made to the
quadrennial Commission on Executive, Legislative and JUdicial
Salaries to be appointed this year. He requested permission to
submit the presentation in the name of the Conference, to
which there was no objection. Judge Adams also stated that
the Committee would consider the Administrative Office study
of the effects on judges and the judicial system of the
imposition of Social Security coverage of judges who entered
on duty prior to the enactment of the 1983 amendments.
Congress requested the study and the Administrative Office
has retained the services of a qualified actuary.


         COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

      Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration, presented the Committee's report.




                               6

                        AUTOMATION 


       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Subcommittee on Judicial Improvements had received a
detailed briefing on the elements of automation and the
development and operation of automated systems within the
Judiciary. The Subcommittee hopes to complete its review of
the five-year plan for automation and to file its
recommendations in time for the next session of the
Conf erence.

      Judge Hunter further stated that the Committee had
considered whether to authorize automated appellate, civil,
and bankruptcy dockets in lieu of hard copy dockets as already
approved by the Conference for criminal dockets.           The
Conference was advised that the Advisory Committees on Civil
and Appellate Rules were considering rules changes to permit
the use of automated dockets. Upon the recommendation of
the Committee, the Conference approved the following
recommendation:

     That the Judicial Conference approve substitutions
     of automated courts of appeals, civil, and
     bankruptcy dockets for the present manually
     prepared dockets, provided that, at the conclusion
     of the case, a printout of the entire record is made
     and bound in the regular docket books of the court.

                   RECORDS DISPOSITION

       The Conference at its September, 1982 session (Conf.
Rpt., p. 119) approved a schedule for the disposition of the
records of the United States courts. The Committee reported
that the transition to the revised records schedule has
proceeded smoothly in all courts except the bankruptcy
courts. Changes in the Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure and a
further analysis of the records retention requirements require
a revision to the schedule for bankruptcy records in order to
correct deficiencies and reduce the amount of time necessary
to sort, transfer, or dispose of bankruptcy records. The
National Archives and Records Service has given preliminary
approval to a revised schedule for bankruptcy records. Upon
the recommendation of the Committee the Conference
approved the revisions to the records disposition schedule for
bankruptcy cases.


                              7
          UNITED STATES COURTS DESIGN GUIDE

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that since May,
1979 the Subcommittee on Judicial Improvements had been
working with the staff of the Administrative Office to revise
the United States Courts Design Guide. In January, 1982 the
Committee referred the Guide to the various circuit judicial
councils for comment, thereafter revised the Guide in the light
of the comments received, and distributed the Guide to each
member of the Conference in September, 1983. Thereafter the
judicial councils in two circuits submitted additional
recommendations for changes in the Guide and further changes
were adopted by the Subcommittee.

      The Conference approved the recommendations for
changes in the Guide submitted by the Committee, and
approved the Guide as modified.


               PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

       Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the United
States District Court in Vermont and the Judicial Council of
the Second Circuit had recommended that Bennington be
statutorily designated as a place of holding court in that
district. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved the designation of Bennington, Vermont
as an additional place of holding court and authorized the
transmission of an appropriate request to the Congress.

        H.R. 4662, 98th Congress, would create a seventh
division in the Southern District of Texas by splitting the
Brownsville Division and designating McAllen as a place of
holding court in the new division. Judge Hunter informed the
Conference that both the district court and the Judicial
Council of the Fifth Circuit had recommended approval. The
Conference thereupon recommended the enactment of H.R.
4662.


                 DISTRIBUTION OF REPORTS

       The Conference in March, 1983 (Conf. Rpt., p. 12),
authorized the Committee to consider whether the circulation
of Conference reports or other reports to all judges might be
curtailed. Judge Hunter informed the Conference that each


                              8
member of the Subcommittee on Judicial Improvements had
reviewed the materials received in his own office over a period
of time to determine if any unnecessary materials could have
been eliminated. After full consideration the Subcommittee
concluded that no action could be taken that would satisfy all
judges or provide worthwhile guidance to the Administrative
Office and the Federal Judicial Center. Accordingly, the
Committee made no recommendation for procedural changes.


    UNIFORM RULES OF DISCIPLINARY ENFORCEMENT

        At its session in September, 1978 (Conf. Rpt., p. 42) the
Conference approved the Model Rules of Disciplinary
Enforcement promulgated by the American Bar Association
and recommended their adoption by all federal district and
appellate courts. Thereafter the Conference approved an
amendment to the model rules regarding the collection of fees
to defray the cost of operation of the rules. (Conf. Rpt., Mar.,
1979, p. 7). Since that time many courts have adopted the
disciplinary enforcement rules, but some have not, contending
that their procedures are superior to the model rules.

       The Committee pointed out that the model rules require
that disciplinary actions taken by a court be reported to all
courts where the attorney is admitted to practice and to the
American Bar Association National Discipline Data Bank. The
federal trial and appellate courts which have not adopted the
Model Rules do not follow this procedure. The Committee
believes that unless disciplinary actions are reported to all
licensing authorities they will have little effect on the practice
before other courts of unscrupulous individuals. The lack of
continuous communication of disciplinary actions depletes the
deterrent value of the disciplinary process. The problem is
growing because of the nationwide character of law firms and
individual practices. The Committee, therefore, recommended
that the Conference take the following action:
     (1) 	   impress upon the courts of appeals and the
             district courts the necessity of adopting the
             Model Ruleq of Disciplinary Enforcement
             unless current rules for disciplinary
             proceedings are objectively more effective
             and efficient for the implementation of
             attorney discipline;



                               9
     (2) 	   impress upon the courts of appeals, the
             Judicial Councils of each Circuit and the
             district courts the importance of reporting
             all private and public discipline of attorneys
             to all licensing authorities with jurisdiction
             over the attorney or attorneys disci~lined;

     (3) 	   request that state courts report all
             disciplinary actions taken against attorneys
             who are members of the bar of federal
             courts to the respective federal courts; and

     (4) 	   recommend that all public discipline
             imposed by all state and federal courts be
             reported to the American Bar Association
             National Discipline Data Bank, including
             public discipline imposed over the last five
             years unless previously submitted.

      These recommendations         of   the   Committee      were
approved by the Conference.


                     JUDICIAL IMMUNITY

       The Conference requested that the Committee give
further study to various proposals to amend federal law to
preclude suits for damages or the imposition of attorney's fees
against judges or judicial officers for actions arising out of the
perform ance of their official duties.


              LAW CLERKS AND SECRETARIES

       The Conference in March, 1978 (Conf. Rpt., p. 12)
approved qualification standards for a secretary to a federal
judge at grade JSP-ll requiring eight years of experience as a
secretary to a federal judge of which seven were to be in grade
JSP-IO. The requirement of seven years of experience in grade
JSP-IO, when added to the seven years of total experience
necessary for that grade, results in a total of fourteen years of
experience for a secretary to be eligible for grade JSP-ll. The
Committee pointed out that secretaries in private law firms
reach the top level after only nine to ten years of experience
and that secretaries in the Executive Branch of Government
qualify for grade GS-IO after seven years of experience but are


                               10
eligible to be promoted to grade GS-Il after only one year of
experience.
       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference modified the qualification standards for a
secretary to a federal judge to require four years of experience
as a secretary to a federal judge, of which three years must be
in grade JSP-IO, in order to qualify for grade JSP-ll. This
change in the qualification standards is subject to the
availability of funds.


     ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANTS TO CHIEF JUDGES
       Judge Hunter reported that the Committee had
considered a proposal that a secretarial position on the
personal staff of the Chief Judge of a district court with five
to ten judges be reclassified as an administrative aide at grade
JSP-13. The Committee pointed out that many of the duties
suggested for the position are those currently set forth in the
"Mission Statement for the Office of the Clerk" which was
presented at the October, 1974 meeting of the Conference of
Metropolitan Chief Judges. Further, the Federal Judicial
Center will soon be conducting an evaluation of the district
court executive program. While smaller metropolitan courts
may not qualify to have a district court executive, the
Committee felt that it was premature to consider an
administrative position at this time.                Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference rejected
the proposal for an administrative position in district courts
with five to ten judgeship positions.

              COURT REPORTERS' SICK LEAVE
        At its session in March, 1982 (Conf. Rpt., p. 12) the
Conference approved the use of a substitute reporter on a
contractual basis when an official court reporter becomes ill,
limited, however, to not more than 30 days in any calendar
year.       Subsequently the Conference approved the
recommendation of the Committee that court reporters who
are assigned a "regular tour of duty" must come under the
Leave Act for purposes of annual leave. (Conf. Rpt., Sept.,
1983, p. 49). The Committee was further authorized to give
consideration to the need to change the current sick leave
policy.


                              11
       Judge Hunter reported that the Committee is now
convinced that having court reporters covered by one portion
of the Leave Act and not the other is contrary to the purposes
of the Act. The Committee therefore recommended and the
Conference adopted the following policy:

     Court reporters who are assigned regular tours of
     duty are to earn sick leave according to the Leave
     Act. Thus, the Conference's policy on sick leave
     adopted at its March 1982 meeting is rescinded.
     Sick leave will be authorized only in accordance
     with the Leave Act, i.e., reporters who have no
     regular tours of duty may not remain in a pay
     status if they cannot record the proceedings
     because they are ill, unless they provide their own
     substitutes.


             COURT REPORTERS' TRANSCRIPTS

      The United States Court Reporters Association
requested that the Judicial Conference amend the transcript
format standards adopted in March, 1983 (Conf. Rpt., p. 11)
and subsequently set out in Chapter xvm of the Court
Reporter's Manual. Judge Hunter stated that the Committee
had thoroughly considered all of the proposals and
recommended the adoption of the following:

     (l) 	   On the title page, designate "civil" or
             "criminal" docket number; identify the
             judge; delete "transcript ordered by";
     (2) 	   On the index, indicate "further redirect
             examination"; list exhibits as "exhibits"
             rather than as "evidence";

     (3) 	   Change the format so that when
             transcribing      testimony   through    an
             interpreter it will be assumed that answers
             are made in a foreign language and
             interpreted unless a parenthetical (in
             English) is inserted.

       These changes were approved by the Conference.




                              12
               AMENDED DISCOVERY RULES 


       The Conference discussed the recent amendments to the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure which are designed to require
a greater level of judicial management of litigation by district
judges. The Chief Justice requested that the district courts
conduct meetings with members of their bar to acquaint them
with these new rules and that programs of this type also be
conducted at the circuit level.


               JUDICIAL BTfllCS COMMIT'rEE

       The written report of the Judicial Ethics Committee,
chaired by Judge Edward A. Tamm, was received by the
Conference. The report indicated that the Committee had
received 1,871 financial disclosure reports for the calendar
year 1982 and that the Committee had addressed 839 letters of
inquiry to judicial officers and employees concerning omissions
or commissions in their 1982 filings.


     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

        The written report of the Advisory Committee on Codes
of Conduct, under the chairmanship of Judge Howard T.
Markey, indicated that since its last report the Committee had
recei ved 19 inquiries and had issued 18 advisory responses. The
Committee has also responded to 12 telephone inquiries that
did not require reference to the Committee.


       COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUlT ASSIGNMENTS
       The written report of the Committee on Intercircuit
Assignments, submitted by the Chairman, Judge George L.
Hart, Jr., was received by the Conference.

       The report indicated that during the period from August
20, 1983 through February 15, 1984, the Committee had
recom mended 84 assignments to he undertaken by 62 judges.
Of this number, 12 were senior circuit judges, 11 were active
circuit judges, 2 were active district judges, 3 were active
judges of the Court of International Trade, 2 were active
judges of Bankruptcy Courts and 1 was a retired Supreme
Court Justice.


                              13
       A retired Justice of the Supreme Court, 12 senior
circuit judges, 11 active circuit judges, 15 senior district
judges, and 2 active judges of the Court of International Trade
undertook 57 assignments to courts of appeals. One senior
circuit judge, 17 senior district judges, 2 active district judges
and 1 active judge of the Court of International Trade
undertook 25 assignments to the United States district courts.
In addition, two active bankruptcy judges were assigned to
bankruptcy courts outside their respective circuits.


         COMMlTI'EE ON THE ADMINISTRA'ftON OF 

               THE PROBA'ftON SYSTEM 


     Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat, Chairman of the Committee on
the Administration of the Probation System, presented the
Committee's report.
                  SENTENCING INSTITUTES
        The Conference in September, 1983 (Conf. Rpt., p. 69)
approved tentative plans for the convening of an Institute on
Sentencing for the judges of the First, Third, and District of
Columbia Circuits to be held at the Federal Correctional
Institution at Otisville, New York, April 30 to May 2, 1984.
The Committee submitted the final agenda for the Sentencing
Institute which the Conference approved.
       The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, also authorized the convening of a Joint Institute
on Sentencing for the judges of the Fifth and Seventh Circuits
to be held some time in July, 1985 and a Joint Institute on
Sentencing for the judges of the Ninth Circuit to be held during
the fiscal year 1985. The convening of these Institutes on
Sentencing is subject to the approval of an agenda to be
presented at a future session of the Conference.

             APPELLATE REVIEW OF SENTENCES

        Judge Tjoflat reviewed the history of sentencing reform
legislation as reported to the Conference in September, 1982
(Conf. Rpt., p. 88), March, 1983 (Conf. Rpt., p. 28), and
September, 1983 (Conf. Rpt., p. 68). He stated that on
February 2, 1984 the Senate approved for the fourth time a
determinate sentencing model providing for sentencing
pursuant to guidelines promulgated by a sentencing commission


                               14
and appellate review of sentences in the courts of appeals.
This sentencing model, which embodies the Senate versions of
sentencing reform proposals previously considered and rejected
by the Conference, is contained in the comprehensive Crime
Control Act, S. 1762 and the Sentencing Reform Act, S. 668.
The Senate adopted these respective measures by votes of 91
to 1 and 85 to 3. The Senate rejected the Conference's
compromise measure, S. 1182, approved in March, 1983 (Conf.
Rpt., p. 28). That measure is now pending in the House as H.R.
3128 along with several other proposals, including H.R. 4554,
the Sentencing Reform Act of 1~83, which contain provisions
previously considered and rejected" by the Conference.

       Each of the pending sentencing reform proposals may, if
enacted, have a substantial impact on the workload of the
courts of appeals and, therefore, should receive continuous
study and re-evaluation. Accordingly, the Conference resolved
that the subject of appellate review of sentencing be
recommitted to the Committee for further study and report.


             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION 

                OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM 


       Judge Robert E. DeMascio, Chairman of the Committee
on the Bankruptcy System, presented the Committee's report.
       ARRANGEMENTS FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

       The Conference upon the recommendation of the
Committee took the following action with respect to changes
in arrangements for bankruptcy judges. These changes are to
become effective when appropriated funds are av;ailable.

                        EIGHTH CIRCUIT
North Dakota:

     (l) 	    Ratified the action taken by the Executive
              Committee to convert the combination part-time
              bankruptcy judge-magistrate position at Fargo to
              fUll-time status at an aggregate salary of $65,800
              per annum until the vacant full-time bankruptcy
              judge position at Fargo is filled. At that time the
              salary of the part-time magistrate position at
              Fargo will be reinstated at $32,900 per annum and
              the incumbent will be authorized to perform the


                               15
            the duties of a part-time bankruptcy judge at no
            additional compensation.
                       NINTH CIRCUIT

Arizona:
     (1)    Designated Safford as an additional place of
            holding bankruptcy court in this district.

                 BANKRUPTCY STATISTICS

        Judge DeMascio stated that the Committee had
conducted a comprehensive review of the bankruptcy
statistical reporting system and had recommended to the
Administrative Office various changes designed to provide a
better measure of the judicial and administrative workloads
involved in processing bankruptcy petitions.            The
recommendations are currently being put into effect.
                 UNITED STATES TRUSTEES

       Judge DeMascio also informed the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed the report of the Attorney General of
the United States on the United States trustee system,
submitted pursuant to Section 408(b) of the Bankruptcy Reform
Act of 1978.      The Attorney General recommended the
continuation of the basic concept of the United States trustee
program to oversee case administration under the Bankruptcy
Code. He further suggested that the program could be placed
in the Judicial Branch, in an Executive Branch agency other
than the Department of Justice, or continued in the
Department of Justice.

       Judge DeMascio pointed out that since 1977 the
Conference had consistently taken the position that placing the
current statutory scheme for bankruptcy estate administration
under the Attorney General creates inherent conflicts of
interest and involves excessive administrative costs. The
Attorney GeneralIs report acknowledges that a conflict of
interest is certain to arise when two government lawyers
appear to assert different and conflicting interests and
estimates the annual cost of maintaining a national United
States Trustee Program would be $29,325,000. The report
further acknowledges that the efficient and general
administration of the bankruptcy court and its case
management system are the primary concerns of the Judiciary,

                             16
and that the performance of this function is quite divergent
from the primary mission of the Department of Justice. The
Committee was of the view that these administrative functions
could be performed more effectively and at substantial savings
if housed within the Judiciary. The Committee found no
reason for the Conference to alter or modify its long-standing
position on this issue.

      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
           FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

      The report of the Committee on the Administration of
the Federal Magistrates System was presented by the
Chairman, Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jr.

          SALARIES OF PART-TIME MAGISTRATES

       Judge Skopil stated that the government-wide
comparability, or cost-of-living, salary adjustments are not
applied automatically to the salaries of part-time magistrates,
as they are to bankruptcy judges by operation of law and to
full-time magistrates by resolution of the Conference, but
require the affirmative action of the Conference. He pointed
out that the salaries of part-time magistrates have been
adjusted only once since 1979, a 4 percent increase granted in
March, 1983, retroactive to October, 1982.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference granted part-time magistrates, including those in
combination positions who perform part-time magistrate duties
for specific additional compensation, the 3.5 percent increase
in salary that was granted to other federal employees
retroactive to the beginning of the first pay period
commencing on or after January 1, 1984.
      The new salary levels                  authorized           for     part-time
magistrates are as follows:

     Level   16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $         32,900
     Level   15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $         28,794
     Level   14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $         24,865
     Level   13 .••••..•••.•••••.•...•• $                               21,851
     Level   12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $         19,268
     Level   11 ..•..••...•...••...•... $                               16,684
     Level   10 .•.....•.......•....... $                               14,639
     Level   9 ........................ $                               12,702


                                     17
     Level 8   ........................ $           10,764 

     Level 7   .•...................... $            8,826 

     Level 6   ........................ $            6,889 

     Level 5   ........................ $            4,844 

     Level 4   ........................ $            3,875 

     Level 3   ........................ $            2,906 

     Level 2   ........................ $            1,938 

     Levell    ........................ $              969 



          EXPENSES OF PART-TIME MAGISTRATES

       The Director of the Administrative Office is authorized
to reimburse part-time magistrates for expenses incurred for
clerical and secretarial assistance pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 635(b)
in accordance with regulations issued with Judicial Conference
approval.     These regulations currently limit the annual
reimbursement to 100 percent of the part-time magistrate's
annual salary, with provision for adjustment upon a showing of
exceptional circumstances. The Com mittee proposed a change
in the regulations to limit the total reimbursement for a part­
time magistrate's clerical and secretarial expenses to a
percentage of a full-time magistrate's clerical and secretarial
expenses. The percentage would be determined by a ratio of
the part-time magistrate's salary to a full-time magistrate's
salary. The provision for increasing the amount upon a showing
of exceptional circumstances would be continued.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved changes in the Director's regulations
governing reimbursement of expenses of part-time magistrates
for salaries and related benefits of secretarial and clerical
employees to provide for a ceiling on reimbursement based
upon proportionality between a part-time magistrate's salary
and a full-time magistrate's salary, rather than a ceiling based
upon 100 percent of the salary of a part-time magistrate. The
ceiling could be exceeded, as at present, upon a showing of
exceptional circumstances.


   FULL-TIME MAGISTRATE POSITIONS COMPENSATED 

      AT LESS THAN THE STATUTORY MAXIMUM 


       Judge Skopil stated that the Chief Judge of the Eastern
District of California had requested an increase in the salary
of the full-time magistrate position 'at Yosemite National Park


                              18
to the maximum currently authorized salary for a full-time
magistrate. Since the magistrate's presence is required full­
time, the Chief Judge thought he should be paid at the full­
time rate regardless of the workload. The Committee pointed
out that if workload alone were considered, the full-time
magistrate positions at Yosemite and Yellowstone National
Parks, and Del Rio, Texas, would have remained part-time
positions. The need for a year-round presence despite the
seasonal nature of the work, however, has required more than
part-time positions.      The Committee has consistently
reconciled these concerns by establishing full-time positions at
less than the maximum salary, thus giving the flexibility
needed to provide the necessary services to the courts.

        Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conf erence continued the policy of maintaining the special
full-time magistrate positions at Yosemite National Park,
Yellowstone National Park, and Del Rio (or Eagle Pass) at
salaries less than the maximum payable to full-time
magistrates in general.


     AUTHORIZATION OF A FULL-TIME MAGISTRATE
                FOR EACH DISTRICT

       Judge Skopil stated that the Committee had considered
a resolution of the Judicial Council of the Eighth Circuit
requesting that at least one full-time magistrate position be
authorized in each district. The Committee was of the view
that the authorization for a full-time magistrate position
should not be based upon an inflexible statistical workload
formula, nor should any other inflexible rule form the basis of
such an authorization. The needs of each district court should
continue to be judged on an individual basis.
        Although the Committee did not favor the Eighth
Circuit proposal, Judge Skopil stated that the Magistrates
Division of the Administrative Office would make a special
review of the four remaining districts which do not have full­
time magistrates and report to the Committee. Meanwhile the
Committee recommended that the Conference continue the
policy of authorizing additional magistrate resources for a
district based upon an individual review of the needs of that
district for magistrate assistance. This recommendation was
approved by the Conference.


                              19
             GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE REPORT 

             ON THE FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM 


        A July, 1983 report of the General Accounting Office
entitled "Potential Benefits of Federal Magistrates System Can
Be Better Realized" contained a number of recommendations
addressed to the Judicial Conference designed to increase the
use of magistrates.      The report also recommended that
Congress amend the Magistrates Act, 28 U.S.C. 636(c), to
provide that the designation of a magistrate to conduct
proceedings does not preclude a judge from exercising
jurisdiction over any case even though the parties had
consented to a magistrate's disposition and to require a judge
to advise the litigants why a case had not been referred to a
magistrate for disposition.

      Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference took the following action:

     (l) 	     Endorsed the actions currently being taken
               or proposed by the Administrative Office
               and the Committee to encourage the
               further use of magistrates and to inform
               the courts about the magistrates system
               and the availability of the Division of
               Magistrates to study a court's utilization of
               magistrates and to advise the court of plans
               that have worked well in other courts.
     (2) 	     Expressed a preference for the language to
               the amendment to 28 U.S.C. 636(c)(2)
               submitted in the Conference's report to the
               Congress on the magistrates system in
               December,     1981,   rather    than    the
               amendment proposed in the GAO report.


              CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

       After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the
circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
magistrate positions.     Unless otherwise indicated, these
changes are to become effective when appropriated funds are

                                 20
available. The salaries of full-time magistrate positions are to
be determined in accordance with the Salary Plan previously
adopted by the Conference.         The salaries for part-time
magistrate positions include the comparability adjustments
authorized by the Conference at this session.

                          FIRST CIRCUIT

Maine:

     (1) 	    Increased the additional compensation of the clerk
              of court at Portland for performing magistrate
              duties from $936 per annum to $1,938 per annum.

Rhode Island:

     (l) 	    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
              Providence for an additional eight-year term.

                       SECOND CIRCUIT

Connecticut:
     (1) 	    Authorized a fourth full-time magistrate position
              for the district to be located at Hartford or New
              Haven.

New York, Western:

     (1) 	    Converted the part-time magistrate position at
              Rochester to a full-time magistrate position.

                        THIRD CIRCUIT

New Jersey:

     (1) 	    Retained the part-time magistrate position at
              Atlantic City at a salary of $1,938 per annum.

                       FOURTH CIRCUIT

North Carolina, Middle:

     (I) 	    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
              Winston-Salem for an additional eight-year term.



                               21
South Carolina:

     (l) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             Aiken and increased the salary from $936 per
             annum to $1,938 per annum.

Virginia, Western:

     (l) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Winchester.
West Virginia, Northern:

     (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             Wheeling at a salary of $1,938 per annum.

     (2) 	   Authorized the part-time magistrate at Wheeling
             to exercise jurisdiction in the adjoining Southern
             District of Ohio.

     (3) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Martinsburg, effective September 30, 1984.

West Virginia, Southern:
     (1) 	   Authorized a part-time magistrate position at
             Beckley or Bluefield at a salary of $21,851 per
             annum.
     (2) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at
             Lewisburg, Parkersburg, and Bluefield upon the
             appointment of the new part-time magistrate at
             Beckley or Bluefield.
                        FIFTH CIRCUIT

Louisiana, Western:
     (1) 	   Authorized the clerk of court at Shreveport to
             serve as a part-time maf5istrate, as an exception
             to policy, and at no additional compensation.

     (2) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             Monroe at a salary of $1,938 per annum.




                              22
Texas, Northern:

     (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate positions at
             Abilene and San Angelo and increased the salary of
             each position from $936 per annum to $1,938 per
             annum.

Texas, Western:
     (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             San Antonio for an additional four-year term and
             increased the salary from $24,024 per annum to
             $32,900 per annum.
     (2) 	   Increased the salary of the full-time magistrate
             position at Del Rio (or Eagle Pass) from $43,600
             per annum to $45,402 per annum, retroactive to
             January 1, 1984, and fixed the salary permanently
             at 69% of the maximum salary of a full-time
             magistrate.

                       SIXTH CIRCUIT

Michigan, Eastern:

     (1) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
             Bay City to a full-time magistrate position.

     (2) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Flint, effective September 30, 1984.

Michigan, Western:
     (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             Marquette and increased the salary frpm $936 per
             annum to $1,938 per annum.

     (2) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Traverse City.

Ohio, Northern:

     (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             Lima, increased the salary from $936 per annum to
             $1,938 per annum, and authorized a review of the
             position in six months.


                              23
Ohio, Southern:

     (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             Portsmouth and increased the salary from $936 per
             annum to $1,938 per annum.

     (2) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Steubenville, effective September 30, 1984.

                      SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Indiana, Southern:

     (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at New
             Albany at a salary of $1,938 per annum.

     (2) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Muncie, effective September 30, 1984.

Wisconsin, Eastern:

     (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             Green Bay and increased the salary from $936 per
             annum to $3,875 per annum.

     (2) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Appleton, effective September 30, 1984.

Wisconsin, Western:

     (1) 	   Continued the authorization of the clerk of court
             at Madison to perform magistrate duties for an
             additional four-year term at no additional
             compensation.

     (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Ashland for an additional four-year term, and
             increased the salary from $936 per annum to
             $1,938 per annum.

     (3) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at Eau
             Claire and increased the salary from $936 per
             annum to $3,875 per annum.

     (4) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at
             Tomah and Wausau, effective September 30, 1984.


                              24 

                       EIGHTH CIRCUIT 


Arkansas, Eastern:
     (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Jonesboro for an additional four-year term at a
             salary of $1,938 per annum.
     (2) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             West Memphis at a salary of $1,938 per annum.

Iowa, Northern:

     (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Sioux City for an additional four-year term and
             increased the salary from $1,872 per annum to
             $2,906 per annum.

     (2) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Dubuque, effective September 30, 1984.

Iowa, Southern:

     (1) 	   Authorized a part-time magistrate position at Des
             Moines at a salary of $32,900 per annum.

Minnesota:

     (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             Bemidji and increased the salary from $936 per
             annum to $1,938 per annum.

Missouri, Eastern:
     (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Cape Girardeau for an additional four-year term
             at a salary of $1,938 per annum.

     (2)· 	 Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at
            Ozark National Scenic Riverways and Hannibal.

Missouri, Western:

     (I) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Springfield, and the full-time magistrate position
             at Kansas City which is due to expire on December
             12, 1984, for additional eight-year terms.


                              25
Nebraska:

     (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             North Platte and increased the salary from $936
             per annum to $1,938 per annum.

     (2) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Gering (or Scottsbluff), effective September 30,
             1984.
North Dakota:

     (1) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Rolla, effective September 30, 1984.

                          NINTH CIRCUIT

Alaska:

     (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             Juneau and increased the salary from $936 per
             annum to $2,906 per annum.

     (2) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate positions at
             Ketchikan, Kodiak and Nome and increased the
             salary of each position from $936 per annum to
             $1,938 per annum. The positions at Kodiak and
             Nome are to be reviewed in one year.
Arizona:

     (1) 	   Continued     the part-time magistrate position at
             Page for       an additional four-year term and
             increased    the salary from $936 per annum to
             $1,938 per   annum.

Califomia, Northern:
     (l) 	   Retained the part-time maJSistrate position at
             Eureka and increased the salary from $936 per
             annum to $1,938 per annum.

Calif omia, Eastern:
     (1) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Fresno f or an additional eight-year term.


                               26
     (2) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Sacramento from $18,616 per annum to
             $28,794 per annum.
     (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Redding for an additional four-year term and
             increased the salary from $12,272 per annum to
             $16,684 per annum.
     (4) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Susanville for an additional four-year term at a
             salary of $2,906 per annum.

     (5) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Alturas, effective September 30, 1984.

Calif omia, Central:
     (1) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at San Luis Obispo from $16,120 per
             annum to $19,268 per annum.
     (2) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
             Santa Ana to a full-time magistrate position,
             subject to the condition that the position may not
             be filled tmtil an active federal district judge is
             stationed and serving at that location.

     (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Santa Barbara for an additional four-year term,
             but reduced the salary from $10,400 per annum to
             $8,826 per annum.
     (4) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Oxnard (or Ventura) for an additional four-year
             term and increased the salary from $6,656 per
             annum to $8,826 per annum.

     (5) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Barstow (or Victorville) for an additional four-year
             term, but reduced the salary from $4,680 per
             annum to $3,875 per annum.




                              27 

Hawaii:
     (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at Hilo
             and increased the salary from $1,872 per annum to
             $3,875 per annum.

     (2) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Johnston Island, effective September 30, 1984.

     (3) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Lihue, effective September 30, 1984.
     (4) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             Wailuku and increased the salary from $936 per
             annum to $1,938 per annum.

Montana:
     (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Glasgow for an additional four-year term at a
             salary of $1,938 per annum.

     (2) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate positions at
             Wolf Point and Helena at a salary of $1,938 per
             annum for each position.        The salary of the
             position at Helena is to be reviewed in one year.
     (3) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at Cut
             Bank and increased the salary from $936 per
             annum to $1,938 per annum.

     (4) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at
             Bozeman and Butte, effective September 30, 1984.

Oregon:

     (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Bend for an additional four-year term at a salary
             of $1,938 per annum.
     (2) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at
             Coquille and increased the salary from $936 per
             annum to $1,938 per annum.




                              28
Washington, Western:

     (1) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Olympic National Park from $14,144
             per annum to $24,865 per annum.

                       TENTH CIRCUIT

Colorado:
     0) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Grand Junction for an additional four-year term at
             a salary of $32,900 per annum.

     (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Rocky Mountain National Park for an additional
             four-year term, but decreased the salary from
             $12,272 per annum to $8,826 per annum, effective
             October 1, 1984.

     (3) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate positions at
             Steamboat Springs (or Craig) and Monte Vista at a
             salary of $1,938 per annum for each position.

     (4) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Cortez.

Kansas:
     (I) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Wichita for an additional eight-year term.

     (2) 	   Authorized a part-time magistrate position at
             Wichita at a salary of $28,794 per annum.

     (3) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions at
             Colby, Parsons, and Garden City, effective
             September 30, 1984.

New Mexico:

     (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Alamogordo for an additional four-year term and
             increased the salary from $1,872 per annum to
             $2,906 per annum.



                              29
     (2) 	      Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
                Gallup and Santa Fe for additional four-year terms
                at a salary of $1,938 per annum for each position.

    (3) 	       Redesignated the part-time magistrate position at
                Portales (or Clovis) as Portales (or Clovis or
                Roswell) and increased the salary from $936 per
                annum to $4,844 per annum.

     (4) 	      Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
                Roswell.
        (5) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
                position at F armington from $936 per annum to
                $1,938 per annum.

Oklahoma, Eastern:
        (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate posi tion at
                Hugo at a salary of $1,938 per annum.

Utah:

        (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate positions at
                Cedar City, Monticello (or Moab), and Vernal (or
                Roosevelt) at a salary of $1,938 per annum for
                each position.
Wyoming:
        (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                Sheridan for an additional four-year term and
                increased the salary from $1,872 per annum to
                $2,906 per annum.

        (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
                Cody and Worland for additional four-year terms
                and increased the salary from $936 per annum to
                $1,938 per annum for each position.

        (3) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate positions at
                Casper, Green River, and Rawlins and increased
                the salary from $936 per annum to $1,938 per
                annum for each position.




                                 30
                      ELEVENTH CIRCUIT 


Florida, Northern:

     (1) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Tallahassee from $21,112 per annum to
             $32,900 per annum.

Florida, Middle:
     (1) 	   Retained the part-time magistrate position at Fort
             Myers and increased the salary from $936 per
             annum to $1,938 per annum.

Florida, Sout hern:

     (1) 	   Authorized a part-time magistrate position at
             West Palm Beach at a salary of $12,702 per
             annum.
Georgia, Middle:

     (1) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
             Macon to a full-time magistrate position.

     (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Valdosta for an additional four-year term at a
             salary of $4,844 per annum.


              COMMrrrEE TO IMPLEMENT THE 

                 CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT 


      Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the Committee
to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented the report of
the Committee.

               APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

       Judge MacBride submitted to the Conference a report
on appointments and payments under the Criminal Justice Act
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1983. The report
indicated that Congress appropriated $34,215,000 for
"Defender Services!! for the fiscal year 1983 and that the
entire amount available for the year will be expended.


                              31
        During the year approximately 50,000 persons were
represented under the Criminal Justice Act, compared to
46,105 persons during the fiscal year 1982, an increase of 8.4
percent. Of these persons, Federal Public and Community
Defender Organizations represented 26,227 or 52.5 percent of
the total representations, compared to 49.2 percent in the
fiscal year 1982 and 50.4 percent in the fiscal year 1981.

      The Conference authorized the Director of the
Administrative Office to transmit this report to all Chief
Judges, to all Federal Defender Organizations, and to others
who may request copies.


       GRANT REQUESTS - COMMUNITY DEFENDER
                  ORGANIZATIONS

       At its session in September, 1983 (Conf. Rpt., p. 83) the
Conference deferred consideration of the funding level for the
Community Defender Organization in the Eastern and Southern
Districts of New York. Judge MacBride stated that the
Committee had reviewed the professional staffing and
compensation pattern and other operational aspects of this
organization, and had recommended that the Conference
approve a sustaining grant for the fiscal year 1985 in the
amount of $1,629,964. This recommendation was approved by
the Conference.


   BUDGET REQUESTS - FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS
       The Conference in September, 1983 (Conf. Rpt., p. 81)
deferred consideration of a budget request for the recently
established Federal Public Defender Organization for the
District of Oregon which had been converted from a
Community Defender Organization. Upon the recommendation
of the Committee, the Conference approved supplemental
funding for the defender office in this district for the fiscal
year 1984 in the amount of $32,687 and approved a budget
request for the fiscal year 1985 in the amount of $553,990.

       The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, also approved funding in the amount of $272,195
to establish a Federal Public Defender Organization to serve
the Northern, Eastern and Western Districts of Oklahoma for
five months of operation during the fiscal year 1984 and
approved funding in the am ount of $386,740 for the fiscal year
1985.
                             32
       The Conference further approved a supplemental budget
request for the fiscal year 1984 in the amount of $39,840 for
the Federal Public Defender Organization for the Southern and
Central Districts of Illinois and the Eastern District of
Missouri and supplemental funding in the amount of $5,123 for
the fiscal year 1985.

       The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved supplemental funding requests for
Federal Public Defender offices for the fiscal years 1984 and
1985 as follows:
                              Fiscal Year      Fiscal Year
 District                      1984             1985

 California, Eastern            $   26,442       $   25,817
 Colorado                       $   46,346       $   38,377
 Hawaii                         $   61,764       $   80,801
 Washington, Western            $   12,758       $   36,060


                         GUIDELINES

      The Committee submitted the following amendments to
the Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice
Act which were approved by the Conference:

       1.   An amendment to Paragraph 4.02 A to include
qualification standards to be used in the selection of Federal
Public Defenders.

       2.   An amendment to Paragraph 2.22 D relating to
procedures for the disposition of payments made by persons
provided representation under the Criminal Justice Act
pursuant to a court reimbursement order.


        SALARIES OF FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS

       The Conference approved the recommendation of the
Committee that Federal Public Defenders be excluded from
the JUdicial Conference proposal for a comprehensive salary
setting plan for Article I judges and other judicial officers. It
was the view of the Committee that the salaries of Federal
Public Defenders should continue to be set by the respective
courts of appeals.



                              33
      COMMITl'EE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                   CRIMINAL LAW

       Judge John D. Butzner, Jr., Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Criminal Law, presented the
report of the Committee.


               INSANITY DEFENSE AND CIVIL 

                COMMITMENT LEGISLATION 


        Judge Butzner stated that both S. 1762 and H.R. 3336,
98th Congress, contain an amendment to Rule 704 of the
Federal Rules of Evidence to prohibit an expert witness who is
testifying with respect to the mental state or condition of the
defendant from stating an opinion as to whether the defendant
had a mental state constituting an element of the offense
charged or of a defense thereto. H.R. 3336 would also amend
Rule 704 to prohibit an expert witness from giving an opinion
in a civil commitment proceeding as to the likelihood that an
individual will commit acts of serious bodily injury to another
or substantial damage to the property of another. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the Conference voted to
disapprove these proposed amendments to Rule 704 of the
Federal Rules of Evidence.


            COMMITTHE ON THE OPERATION OF 

                   THE JURY SYSTEM 


        Judge T. Emmet Clarie, Chairman of the Committee on
the Operation of the Jury System, presented the Committee's
report.


                    JUROR UTILIZATION

       Since July, 1982 the Administrative Office has been
compiling statistical information on the use of jurors called to
serve on the first day of trial~ Judge Clarie stated that in the
year ending September 30, 1983, 37 percent of the jurors called
for service on the first day of trial were neither selected to
serve on a jury nor were challenged on voir dire. Although this
was a slight improvement over a previous report, Judge Clarie
pointed out that on the first day of trial more than one out of
every three jurors either fails to serve on a jury or to be
challenged.


                              34
       It was the view of the Committee that there was room
for continued improvement and that the setting of a national
goal regarding the percentage of jurors not selected, serving,
or challenged on the first day of trial will contribute to this
process. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference adopted as a goal that all district courts limit the
percentage of jurors not selected, serving, or challenged on
voir dire or orientation day to 30 percent.

                 VOIR DIRE EXAMINATION
       S. 386, 98th Congress, would amend Rule 24(a) of the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure to require, rather than
permit, counsel to conduct the voir dire examination of
jurors. S. 677, 98th Congress, would similarly amend Rule
47(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The Conference
has consistently opposed legislation to require counsel's
participation in the voir dire examination. (See Conf. Rpt.,
Sept., 1982, p. 114).      Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference reiterated its strong opposition to
the proposals contained in these bills.

                GRAND JURY ORIENTATION
       Judge Clarie informed the Conference that substantial
progress had been made toward obtaining a grand jury
orientation film. The film will be professionally produced by
major motion picture companies as a public service at no
expense to the Government. The Committee had reviewed a
draft of the script for the film and found it to be of an
impressively high caliber. A revised draft incorporating minor
changes is being prepared and will be circulated among the
bench and bar for comment.


      IMPLEMENTATION COMMl'M'HE ON ADMISSION
         OF ATTORNEYS TO FEDERAL PRACTICE
      Judge James Lawrence King, Chairman of the
Implementation Committee on Admission of Attorneys to
Federal Practice, presented the Committee's report.

       Judge King informed the Conference that during the
last 12 months the program of the Committee has considerably


                             35
expanded and developed. The programs now in place in 13 pilot
courts represent, most probably, the full extent of rule and
program implementation.       Although two courts are still
involved in the final process of rule adoption, and others have
only recently implemented their rules, the pilot program now
stands ready to move into its eValuation phase.


         AD HOC COMMITTEE ON THE LAW CLERK 

                 SELECTION PROCESS 


       Judge Carl McGowan, Chairman of the Ad Hoc
Committee on the Law Clerk Selection Process, reported that
the Committee had received two suggestions for a
modification in the Judicial Conference resolution pertaining
to the selection of law clerks to require that no offers of
employment be made to law clerks until September 15 at the
earliest.

       The Conference, after full discussion, voted to continue
the two-year experiment with respect to the law clerk
selection process, to reaffirm the policy that applications for
law clerkships will neither be received nor considered prior to
July 15, and directed that this reaffirmation of policy be
transmitted in an appropriate way to all federal judges who
will be urged to abide by it. The Conference also expressed
the hope that the Association of American Law Schools will
similarly convey to its members the policy agreed upon and
will urge its members to abide by it.


                  AD HOC COMMITTEE ON 

                 AMERICAN INNS OF COURT 


       Judge A. Sherman Christensen, Chairman of the Ad Hoc
Committee on American Inns of Court, presented a brief
report on the activities of the Committee.

       Judge Christensen informed the Conference that the
Committee was appointed by the Chief Justice in October,
1983, following approval by the Executive Committee, and had
been charged with the responsibility of assessing the
experience with the American Inns of Court in sowing the
seeds for improved trial advocacy and to make
recommendations for the guidance of existing as well as future
Inns, to promote the creation of more Inns with the


                              36
cooperation of judges, trial lawyers and law schools, and to
think through the longer-term, overall, national organizational
needs and to make appropriate recommendations.
       Judge Christensen pointed out that the genesis of the
concept of an American Inn of Court was set out in an article
by Judge J. Clifford Wallace entitled "American Inns of Court:
A Way to Improve Advocacy", 68 A.B.A.J. 282 (1982), and that
the concept and experience with Am erican Inns of Court as
actually established were described in an article entitled "The
Concept and Organization of an American Inn of Court", by
Judge Christensen, 93 F.R.D. 807 (1982).

       He stated that the Committee had developed a manual
on "How to Create and Operate an American Inn of Court"
which will be circulated by the Committee to interested
inquirers. In addition to the original two Inns in Provo and Salt
Lake City, others have since been established in Honolulu,
Brooklyn, Mississippi, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles and
Kansas City (Missouri). New Inns are in course of planning in
Chicago, San Francisco, San Diego and Tacoma and a second
and perhaps a third Inn is under consideration in the San
Francisco Bay area. Material has recently been supplied by the
Committee upon request from possible sponsors in 14 other
cities. A quarterly newsletter is being furnished to inquirers
and to existing Inns for reproduction and circulation by them
among their members concerning the development of the
program.
       The question of the creation of a national coordinating
organization, its sponsor, structure, location, criteria, and
functions, remains to be determined. The Committee plans to
continue its work and will report its recommendations to the
Conference at a later session.


    COMMrrrEE ON ELECTRONIC SOUND RECORDING

       At its session in September, 1983 (Conf. Rpt., p. 47) the
Conference, on recommendation of the Committee on Court
Administration, approved regulations governing the use of
electronic sound recording equipment to record proceedings in
the United States district courts. The Conference at that time
further authorized the Chief Justice to appoint an ad hoc
Committee of members of the Conference to monitor, on
behalf of the Conference between meetings thereof, the


                              37
implementation by the Administrative Office of the
regulations adopted with respect to the electronic sound
recording of court proceedings.      The Chief Justice
subsequently appointed Chief Judge Collins J. Seitz, Judge
Robert R. Merhige, Jr. and Judge Albert G. Schatz as
Committee members.

       Judge Seitz informed the Conference that the
Committee had met and reviewed the guidelines for recording
proceedings electronically in the district courts by electronic
sound recording prior to their release in January, but since
then had received questions concerning Section 6 thereof
pertaining to the court reporter staff.         The Conference
considered the objections to this section and on motion of
Judge Merhige directed that Subsections (b) and (c) be deleted
from the guidelines and that the words "where feasible" be
deleted from Subsection 6(a) of the guidelines.


            COURT OF INTERNATIONAL TRADB

       The Conference ratified the action previously taken by
its Executive Committee opposing the enactment of H.R. 4403,
98th Congress, to change the name of the Court of
International Trade to the "Paul P. Rao Court of International
Trade", and further recommended against renaming the
courthouse after him.


                  MBMORIAL RBSOLUTION

       The Conference, noting the death of Judge Mary Anne
Richey, formerly Chairwoman of the Judicial Conference
Subcommittee on Federal-State Relations, adopted the
following Resolution and directed that it be transmitted to her
husband and daughter.

 Whereas: United States District Judge Mary Anne 

 Richey of the District of Arizona and the Chairwoman 

 of our Subcommittee on Federal-State Relations 

 passed away on November 25, 1983, at Tucson, 

 Arizona. 


 Judge Richey served with distinction as a member of
 the Women's Army Service Pilots during World War fi,
 from 1943 to 1945. In 1951, she earned her law degree


                             38
 from the University of Arizona. Over the next quarter 

 of a century, Judge Richey became a well respected 

 member of the bar, serving as a Deputy County 

 Attorney, an Assistant United States Attorney, the 

 United States Attorney for the District of Arizona, 

 and Special Assistant Attorney General of Arizona. 


 Judge Richey served as a judge of the Superior Court 

 of the State of Arizona in Pima County from 1964 to 

 1976. During her term as a State judge, she served on 

 numerous commissions and committees on the 

 administration of justice. 


 Judge Richey entered on duty on the District Court in 

 Arizona on July 9, 1976 and was immediately 

 recognized for her ability, diligence and kindness. 

 Judge Richey became the first chairwoman of the 

 Judicial Conference's Committee on Federal-State 

 Relations on August 5, 1982. Though her tenure was 

 short, her organizational skills have made a lasting 

 impression on the Subcommittee and the deliberations 

 of this Conference. 


 Therefore, it is the resolve of the Conference, that 

 we, who have had the honor and privilege of serving 

 with her, wish to express our deepest sympathy to her 

 family and friends for their loss and ours. 



                         ELECTIONS

       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 62l(a)(2), elected
District Judge A. David Mazzone to membership on the Board
of the Federal Judicial Center for a term of four years
succeeding District Judge William S. Sessions.




                             39 

            RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION 


       The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this· session where necessary for
legislative or administrative action.



                          Warren E. Burger
                          Chief Justice of the United States

June 12, 1984




                           40 

                                              INDEX 


                                                                                               Page
Admission of Attorneys to Federal Practice:
  Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••               35
Administrative Assistants to Chief Judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                      11
Administrative Office, U. S. Courts
     Facilities for .......................................                                      4

  Judicial Business of the Courts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 4
  Report of the Director. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .            3
American Bar Association:
     Discipline Data Bank ................................                                       9

   Disciplinary Enforcement; Model Rules for ••.••••..••••                                      9
Appointments and Payments, CJA •••• .•••••••.•••••• • .•••                                     31
Attorney General, U.S. Trustee Report. . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                   16
Automation:
   Com puterized dockets ••.•.••••.••.• . • • • . • . • • • • . . • . • .                        7
   Five-year plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     7
Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978.. •• • • ••• • .• • • ••• • • • • • •• ••                         16
Bankruptcy System:
   Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges ••••••••••••••••••                                        15
   Committee on; Report of.............................                                         15
    Records Disposition .................................                                        7

    Statistics ..........................................                                       16 

    Trustees .••••••• . • • . • • • • . • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • . • • • • • • . . • •     16
Boards:
   Certification; Facilities for...... . ••. •••••••••.••••.••                     5
   Federal Judicial Center; Election to ••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • 39
Budget Requests, Federal Public Defenders.. • •• • •• • • • • • •• • 32
Civil Commitment Legislation; Insanity Defense and. • • •••• • 34
Codes of Conduct:
   Advisory Committee on; Report of ••••••••••••••••.••• 13
Community Defenders Organizations, Grant Requests. •••••• 32
Computerized dockets ••••••• " • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 7
Court Administration:
   Administrative Assistants to Chief Judges. • • • • • • . • • • • . • 11
     Automation ........................................                                         7

    Committee on; Report of. •• ••••• ••• • •• • • • • •• ••. • ••• . •                          6
    Court Reporters' Sick Leave. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • •              II
    Court Reporters' Transcripts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • . • • •            12
    Disciplinary Enforcement; Uniform Rules of ••••••••••••                                      9
    Distribution of Reports .....•..••••••••••••••••••••••                                       8
    Judicial Immunity. ................. ......... ........                                    10 

    Law Clerks and Secretaries. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .            10
    Places of Holding Court. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •          8
     Records Disposition .................................                                       7


                                                 41
Court Reporters:
  Electronic Sound Recording. • . . • . • • . • • . • . • • • • • . . . . • • . •                   37
     Manual; Am endm ent to ...............................                                         12 

    Sick Leave for. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       11
    Transcript Format. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          12
Crim inal Justice Act:
   Appointments and Payments. • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • • • •                     31
   Budget Requests, Federal Public Defenders. • .•• • . • .• . • •                                  32
   Committee on; Report of.............................                                             31
   Grant Requests, Community Defenders Organizations....                                            32
    Guidelines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
   Qualification Standards, Federal Public Defenders... • •• • 33
   Salaries of Federal Public Defenders.. •• • • .• • .• • • • • •• .• 33
Crim inal Law:
   Committee on; Report of. • • . • • . • • • . • • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • 34
   Insanity Defense and Civil Commitment Legislation...... 34
Design Guide, U.S. Courts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • 8
Disciplinary Enforcement; Uniform Rules of • • • • • . • • • • • • • . • 9
Discovery Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Distribution of Reports .•.••••..•..••.•.••.••••.••.••.•• 12
Election ..............................................                                             39 

Electronic Sound Recording; Ad Hoc Committee on • . • • . • • . • 37
Ethics (See JUdicial Ethics)
Executive Committee actions:
   Bankruptcy Judges Arrangements. • • ••••• ••• ••• • • •• • • •• 15
   Court of International Trade; U.S. •• •• • • • •• • • • • ••• • • •• • 38
   Inns of Court; Ad Hoc Committee on. • • •• . • . • . .• •. ••. • . 36
Facitilies:
     Courts Design Guide. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            8
   Administrative Office •.••.••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                             4
   Federal Judicial Center. . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .                4
Federal Public Defenders; Salaries of •••••••••••••••••••••                                         33
Federal Judicial Center:
     Board; Election to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       39
     Facilities for .......................................                                          4
Federal Public Defenders:
     Budget Requests ..............................•.....                                           32 

     Qualification Standards for. • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • •               33
     Salaries of .........................................                                          33 

General Accounting Office, Report on
     Magistrates System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          20
Grand Jury Orientation Film. • . • • . • . • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • . • • 35
Grant Requests, Community Defender Organizations.. •••••• 33
Guidelines:
     Criminal Justice Act ................................                                          33 

     Electronic Sound Recording. • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • •                37
                                                  42
Immunity, Judges and Judicial Officers... •. ••••••• ••• •• ••• 10 

Inns of Court: 

    Ad Hoc Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • . • • • • • . • . • • • • 36 

Insanity Defense and Civil Commitment Legislation. • • • • • • • • 34 

Intercircuit Assignments: 

    Com mittee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • 13 

International Trade; U.S Court of. . • . • • • • • . . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • 38 

Judicial Branch: 

    Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 6

    Quadrennial Salary Com mission ••••••••••••••• • • • • • • • •                                   6

    Socis1 Securi ty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6

JUdicial Business of the Courts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • •                 4

JUdicial Conference of the U.S. 

    Call of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

    Release of Action. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 

Judicial Ethics: 

    Com mittee on; Report of. • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • 13 

Judicial Immunity.. ..... . ..... ....... ...... .. ..... . ....                                     10 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
   Facilities for ................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       5

   Report of •.•. . . • • • • • . • • • . . . • . • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •         6

Juror U tilization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     34 

Jury System: 

   Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • . • . • . • • •                  34 

   Grand Jury Orientation ••••••.•••••••••••••••••••••••                                             35 

   Juror Utilization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          34 

   Voir Dire Exam ination •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                            35 

Law Clerk Selection Process: 

   Ad Hoc Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                         36 

Leave Act. . • • . • • . • • • • . . . . • . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . •   11 

Legislation: 

   Court of International Trade; U.,S. • • •• . • •• ••• • • • ••••• ••                              38 

   Crime Control Act. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              15 

   Insanity Defense and Civil Commitment.. •••• •• •••• . • ••                                       34 

   Magistrates Act. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          20 

   Places of Holding Court. • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 8

   Sentencing Reform Act ••••••••.•••••••••••••••••••••                                              14 

   Voir Dire Examination.. • • •••• •• . • • • • • . • •• • • • • • •• •• • •                        35 

Magistrate System: 

   Committee on; Report of............ •••••• •••••••••••                                            17 

   Compensation at Less than Statutory Maximum ••••••.••                                             18 

   Expenses of Part-Time Magistrates. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                          18 

   Full-Tim e Magistra te for Each District. • . • • . • • . • • • • . • • •                         19 

   General Accounting Office Report. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                         20 

   Magistrates Positions; Changes in •••••••••••••••••••••                                           20 

   Salaries of Part-Time Magistrates. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                        17 

Memorial Resolution, The Honorable Mary Anne Richey                                                  38 

                                                   43 

National Archives and Records Service. . • • . • . • . • . • • . . • • • • •                                  7
Places of Holding Court. . • • • . . • . • • . . • • • • • . . . • • . • • • • . • • . .                     10
Probation System:
   Appellate Review of Sentences.. • •.• •••• . .••••• . • •••• •                                            14
   Com mittee on; Report of. • • • . . . • • • • . . • • • • • . • • • • • . . • • •                         14
   Sentencing Institutes •.•••••••••••.•••••••.••••••••••                                                    14
Quadrennial Commission on Salaries •.••••••.•••••••••••••                                                     6
Records Disposition, Bankruptcy Cases. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                  7
Release of Conference Action ...........................                                                     40
Reports; Curtail Distribution of • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                          8
Richey, The Honorable Mary Anne;
   Memorial Resolution on the death of. . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . •                                  38
Rules:
   Civil Procedure:
       Discovery. . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . • • . . . . . • . . . . . • . .            13
       Voir Dire ..•..•..........•......•......•.••..••..•                                                   35
   Criminal Procedure, Voir Dire ........................ 35
   Disciplinary Enforment ••.••.••••••••••.••••••••.••••                              9
   Evidence, Insanity Defense and Civil Commitment. • • • • • • 34
Salaries:
   Bankruptcy Judges ••.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•• J 6,25
   Federal Public Defenders. • . • • . . • • • • • . • • • • • • • . • • • • • . • • 33
   Magistrates:
     Changes in Positions. •. •• •••• .• ••••• . .••. •••••. ••••• 20
     Full-Time; At less than statutory maximum. • • • • • . . • ••• 18
       Part-Time ........................................                                                    17 

   Quadrennial Com mission on ..••.••..••••••.••••••••••                                                      6
Secretaries;
   Administrative Assistants; Classification as. • . • • • • • • • . • •                                     11
   Qualification standards for. . ...... • • • • • .. .. • • • • .. • • ..                                   10
Sentencing:
     Appellate Review of . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . • • . . • . . • . • . • • . • • .                   14
     Institutes ..........................................                                                   14 

Sick Leave for Court Reporters •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                            11
Social Security. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              6
Statistics, Bankruptcy.. •• •• ••••• • ••••• ••••••• •••••• • •••                                            16
Trustees; U.S.:
   Report of the Attorney General • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                              16
Utilization of Jurors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 34
Voir Dire Examination ...•........•.....................                                                     35 





                                                       44
                                                l!.   s.   GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE· 1984 446-968/18'/82
