          REPORT 

           of the 

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

       UNITED STATES 





      S e p t emb e r   }9 - 2 0,   19 8 4




        Wasbington, D. C.
                    1984
ADMINlSTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNIrED STATES COURTS 



        William E. Foley 

            Director 

              REPORT 

                  of the 

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL COl\TFERENCE OF THE 

       UNITED STATES 



      S e p t emb e r 19 - 20,   1984




          Washington, D.C.
                   1984
  THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES,18 U.S.C. 331
§ 331. JUDlaAl CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

   The Chief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of each
judicial circuit, and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at such
time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such confer­
ence which shall be known as the Judicial Conference of the United States. Special ses­
sions of the conference may be called by the Chief Justice at such times and places as he
may designate.
  The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the cir­
cuit and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held
pursuant to section 333 of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for
three successive years, except that in the year following the enactment of this amended
section the judges in the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth circuits shall choose a district
judge to serve for one year, the judges in the second, fifth, and eighth circuits shall
choose a district judge to serve for two years and the judges in the third, sixth, ninth, and
District of Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for three years.
   If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit
is unable to attend. the Chief Justice may summon any other circuit or district judge from
such circuit_ Every judge summoned shall attend and. unless excused by the Chief Justice.
shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to the needs of his
circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of which the administration of justice in
the courts ofthe United States may be improved.
   The Conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from circuits
or districts where necessary. It shall also submit suggestions and recommendations to the
various courts to promote uniformity of management procedures and the expeditious con­
duct of court business. The Conference is authorized to exercise the authority provided in
section 372(c) of this title as the Conference, or through a standing committee. If the
Conference elects to establish a standing committee. it shall be appointed by the Chief
Justice and all petitions for review shall be reviewed by that committee. The Conference
or the standing committee may hold hearings, take sworn testimony, issue subpoenas and
subpoenas duces tecum, and make necessary and appropriate orders in the exercise of its
authority. Subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum shall be issued by the clerk of the Su­
preme Court or by the clerk of any court of appeals, at the direction of the Chief Justice
or his designee and under the seal of the court, and shall be served in the manner pro­
vided in rule 45(c) of the Federal Rules of Civil 'Procedure for subpoenas and subpoenas
duces tecum issued on behalf of the United States or an officer or any agency thereof.
The Conference may also prescribe and modify rules for the exercise of the authority pro­
vided in section 372(c) of this title. All judicial officers and employees of the United
States shall promptly carry into effect all orders of the Judicial Conference or the stand­
ing committee established pursuant to this section.

   The Conference shall also carry on a continuous study of the operation and effect of the
general rules of practice and procedure now or hereafter in use as prescribed by the Su­
preme Court for tbe other courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes in
and additions to those rules as 'the Conference may deem desirable to promote simplicity
in procedure, fairness in administration, the just determination of litigation, and the elim­
ination of unjustifiable expense and delay shall be recommended by the Conference from
time to time to the Supreme Court for its consideration and adoption. modification or re­
jection. in acoordance with law.
  The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice. report to such conference
on matters relating to the business of the several courts of the United States, with partic­
ular reference to cases to which the United States is a party.
  The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings of the
Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.


                                             iv
                             TABLE OF CONTENTS 


              REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

          JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES 


                              September 19-20, 1984 


                                                                                                                                                  Page

Call of the Conference. • • • • . . • • . . • • . • . • • • . • . • . • • . .                                                                      43 

Report of the Director of the Administrative 

  Office of the United States Courts. • • • • • • • • • • . • . . . . .                                                                            45 

    JUdicial Business of the Courts • . • • • • • • • . . • • • . • • . .                                                                          46 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. • • . • . • • . • • • . • •                                                                            47 

Committee on the Judic·ial.i3ranch . . . . . . . • . • . . . . • . . . . .                                                                         47 

Committee on Court Administration .•. . • • • • . . • • • . . . . .                                                                                47 

     Automation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                   47 

     Court Secur'ity • • • . . • . . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . . . . • • • •                                                                 48 

   Court-Annexed Arbitration. . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • .                                                                            49 

   Nonappropriated Funds ..••••.•••...••..                                                        0   0   .0      •       0       •       •        50 

   Retirement of Territorial Judges .•.•.••.                                              0   0   0   •   0   •   •       •       •       •        50
   Distribution of Local Rules of 

     Courts of Appeals ••••••...••.•••.•••..•..                                                                           0       •       •        50 

   Places of Holding Court .••..                      0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •       •       •       •        51 

   Reports of Matters Held Under 

     Submission or Advisement . • • • . . • • • • . . • . . • • . . . .                                                                            51 

   Uniform Rules of Disciplinary Enforcement • • • . • • • • • •                                                                                   51 

   Additional Judgeships. • . • • . . . • • . • • . • • • • • • • • . • • •                                                                        53 

   En Banc Hearings •.•            0   ••••   0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •       •       •       •        55 

   Multidistrict Litigation. . . . • . . . • • . • . • • • • • . • . • . . •                                                                       56

   Intersta te Com merc e . • • . . . • • . • . • . • • • . • • . • . . . . .                                                                      57 

   Staff Attorney Retirement Coverage. • • . • • • • . • • • . . •                                                                                 57 

   Secretaries to Federal Judges and 

     Magistrates. • • • • • • • • . • . • • . . • • • • . • . • • • • . • . • .                                                                    58 

   Court Reporters ...•....•....                              0   0   ••••            0   0   0   •   •   •   •       •       •       •       •    59

Committee on the Budget .•••.•..•.                                0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •       •       •       •       •    60 

   Supplemental Appropriations for the 

       Fiscal Year 1985 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                    60 

    Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1986 • • • • • • . • • . • • •                                                                               60 

Judicial Ethics Committee •••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                                                                 61 

    Activities of the Committee. • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • •                                                                            61 

    Reporting Form and Instructions • • • • • • . • • • • . . • • . • •                                                                             61 

    Ethics in Government Act Amendments. • • . . • • . • . • • •                                                                                    62 

    Disposition of Disclosure Reports •••••••••••••••••                                                                                             62 

Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct. • • • . • . . • • • • • •                                                                                   63 

    Activities of the Committee .••                       0   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •       •       •       •       •     63 

    Code of Judicial Conduct • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                                          63 

    Code of Conduct for Law Clerks • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••                                                                             . 64 

                                              v
Committee on lntercircuit Assignments. . • . . . . • . . • . . . . •                   64 

Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure •••••..•••                                64 

     Civil Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . .    64 

     Criminal Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       65 

    Bankrup tcy Rules . . • . • • . • • . • • • . . . . • . . • . . • . . . • .        65 

    Additional Rules Amendments. . . • • . • • . • • • . . . • . • . •                 66 

     Rules Enabling Acts. • . • • . • • • . . • . • • • • • . • . • • • • • .          66 

    Local Rules of Court .••.••••••.•.••.•.•.....•.                                    67 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Probation System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         67 

    Sen tencing Institutes •••••••••••.••••••••••••••                                  67 

    Probation and Pretrial Services Officers •••••••••••.                              68 

    Sentencing Reform Legislation. • . . • . • . • • . • . • . • . . •                 69 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Bankruptcy System ••.••••..••••••....•••...••••                                      70 

    Selection and Appointment of 

      Bankruptcy Judges. • • . • . • . . . • . . • • • . . • . • • . • . . .           70 

    Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges. • . • • • . • . • • • • • •                    7I

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Federal Magistrates System. . • • • • . • • . • • • . . . • • • • • . .              71 

    Salaries of Clerks of Court Serving 

      as Part-Time Magistrates. • .••••••• .• .. •• ••.•• •                            71 

    Locations of Magistrates. • • . • • . • • . . . • • • . . • • • • • • . .          72 

    Changes in Magistrates Positions. • •• •••.•.••••••.                               72 

Committee to Implement the 

  Criminal Justice Act. • . • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . . . • . • . . • . •          80 

    Appointments and Payments. • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •                 80 

    Budget Requests - Federal Public Defenders. • • • • • • • • •                      81 

    Grant Requests - Community Defender 

      Organiza tions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       83 

    Acquisition of Word Processing or 

      Personal Computer Equipment. • . • • . • • • • • • • . • . . •                   84 

    Guidelines. • • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • . • • • • • •      85 

    Community Defender Organizations ­
      Conditions of Grant. . • . • • • • • • • • . • . • . . • • • • • • • •           85 

    Criminal Justice Act Amendments. . • . . • . . . . • . • • • • •                   87 

Committee on the Operation of the Jury System                                          88 

    Summary Jury Trials. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           88 

    Juror Utilization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        88 

Ad Hoc Committee on Cameras in the Courtroom                                           89 

Ad Hoc Committee on American Inns of Court. • • • • • • • • • •                        89 

Memorial Resolution. . • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • . •         90 

Elections. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9I

Pretermission of Terms of the 

      Courts of Appeals • . • . • . • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • •          9I

Release of Conference Action. • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              91 



                                           vi
                  REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

                  OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 

                      OF THE UNITED STATES 


                       September 19-20, 1984

      The Judicial Conference of the United States convened
on September 19, 1984, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice
of the United States, issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and continued
in session on September 20. The Chief Justice presided and the
following members of the Conference were present:

First Circuit:

      Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
      Judge W. Arthur Garrity, Jr., District of Massachusetts

Second Circuit:

      Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
      Chief Judge Jack B. Weinstein, Eastern District
       of New York

Third Circuit:
      Chief Judge Ruggero J. Aldisert
      Chief Judge Walter K. Stapleton, District of Delaware

Fourth Circuit:

      Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
      Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., Eastern District of Virginia

Fifth Circuit:

      Chief Judge Charles Clark
      Judge Adrian G. Duplantier, Eastern District of Louisiana

Sixth Circui t:

      Chief Judge Pierce Lively
      Chief Judge Robert M. McRae, Jr., Western District
       of Tennessee




                               43 

Seventh Circuit:

      Chief Judge Walter J. Cummings
      Chief Judge John W. Reynolds, Eastern District
       of Wisconsin

Eighth Circuit:

      Judge Gerald P. Heaney·
      Judge Albert G. Schatz, District of Nebraska

Ninth Circuit:

      Chief Judge James R. Browning
      Chief Judge Robert J. McNichols, Eastern District
       of Washington

Tenth Circuit:
      Chief Judge William J. Holloway
      Chief Judge Luther B. Eubanks, Western District
       of Oklahoma

Eleventh Circuit:
      Chief Judge John C. Godbold
      Chief Judge James Lawrence King, Southern District
       of Florida

District of Columbia Circuit:
      Chief Judge Spottswood W. Robinson, m
      Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District
       of Columbia

F edera.1 Circui t:

      Chief Judge Howard T. Markey




*   Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge
      Donald P. Lay who was unable to attend.


                                44 

      Circuit Judges Frank M. Coffin, Edward A. Tamm, and
Gerald B. Tjoflat; Senior Circuit Judge John D. Butzner, Jr.;
Senior District Judges T. Emmet Clarie, Edward T. Gignoux,
Elmo B. Hunter, and Thomas J. MacBride; and District Judges
Aldon J. Anderson, Robert E. DeMascio, and Garnett Thomas
Eisele, attended all or some of the sessions of the Conference.

       The Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on
. Courts, Civil Liberties and the Administration of Justice,
  Honorable Robert W. Kastenmeier; the Chairman of the House
  Appropriations Subcommittee, Honorable Neal Smith; and the
  Chief Counsel of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Vinton
  DeVane Lide, attended the Conference briefly and spoke on
  matters pending in the Congress of interest to the Judiciary.

       The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable
 William French Smith, Jr., the Solicitor General, Honorable
 Rex E. Lee, and the Director of the United States Marshals
 Service, Stanley E. Morris, addressed the Conference briefly on
 matters of mutual interest to the Department of Justice and
 the Conference.
       William E. Foley, Director of the Administrative Office
 of the United States Courts; Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Deputy
 Director; James E. Macklin, Executive Assistant Director;
 William J. Weller, Legislative Affairs Officer; Daniel R.
 Cavan, Deputy Legislative Affairs Officer; Deborah H. Kirk,
 Chief, Office of Management Review; Professor A. Leo Levin,
 Director of the Federal Judicial Center and Charles W. Nihan,
 Deputy Director, attended the sessions of the Conference.
 Mark W. Cannon, Administrative Assistant to the Chief
 Justice, also attended the sessions of the Conference.

      The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo
 Levin, presented a report on the activities of the Center.
                REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR 

              OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

              OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 


      The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
 States Courts, William E. Foley, submitted to the Conference
 the Annual Report of the Director for the year ended June 30,
 1984. The Conference authorized the Director to release the
 Annual Report immediately in preliminary form and to revise
 and supplement the final printed edition.


                              45
      A separate report on the operation of the Equal
Employment Opportunity Plans of the Courts of Appeals and
District Courts was also received by the Conference and
authorized to be released.

            JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

      Mr. Foley reported that during the year ended June 30,
1984 there were 1,126 appeals filed in the United States Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. During the year the court
disposed of 964 appeals and there were 690 appeals pending as
of June 30, 1984. In the other twelve courts of appeals there
were 31,490 appeals filed, an increase of 6.3 percent over the
29,630 appeals filed the previous year. The courts of appeals
disposed of 31,185 appeals, 8.8 percent more than the number
disposed of the previous year, but 305 appeals less than the
number of filed. As a result the number of appeals pending in
the courts of appeals on June 30, 1984 increased 1.4 percent to
22,785.
      In the United States district courts there were 261,485
civil cases docketed during the year, an 8.1 percent increase
over the previous year and more than twice the number of civil
cases filed in 1977. There were 243,113 civil cases terminated,
an increase of 12.9 percent over the previous year, but 18,372
cases less than the number filed. On June 30, 1984 the number
of pending civil cases increased by 7.9 percent to a record
250,292 pending civil actions.
      Criminal cases filed in the district courts in 1984 were
36,845, an increase of 2.6 percent. There were 35,494 criminal
cases terminated, 4.4 percent more than the previous year, but
1,351 less than the number filed. As a result the number of
criminal cases pending on the dockets of the district courts
increased to 19,938, an increase of 7.3 percent.
      During the year ended June 30, 1984 there were 344,275
bankruptcy petitions filed in the district courts, a decrease of
8J percent from the previous year. There were 304,014
petitions terminated and the pending caseload on June 30, 1984
increased to a record 577,567 pending bankruptcy petitions.




                             46 

                   JUDICIAL PANEL ON 

                 MULTIDISTRICT LITlGATION 


      A written statement filed with the Conference by the
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation indicated that during
the year ended June 30, 1984, the Panel had acted on 1,120 civil
actions pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407. Of that number, 544
actions were centralized for consolidated pretrial proceedings
with 576 actions already pending in the various transferee
districts at the time of transfer. The Panel denied transfer of
88 actions.
      Since its creation in 1968 the Panel has transferred 13,274
civil actions for centralized pretrial proceedings in carrying
out its responsibilities. As of June 30, 1984, approximately
10,213 cases had been remanded for trial, reassigned within the
transferee district, or terminated in the transferee court.

          COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

      Judge Frank M. Coffin, Chairman of the Committee on
the Judicial Branch, informed the Conference that the
Committee had prepared two statements on the need for
increases in the salaries of judges and other judicial personnel
for submission to the Commission on Executive, Legislative
and Judicial Salaries which will be appointed for the fiscal year
beginning October 1, 1984. Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference authorized the distribution of these
two statements to all Article III judges, United States Claims
Court judges, bankruptcy judges, and United States magistrates
for their information.
         COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

     Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration, presented the report of the Committee.
                         AUTOMATION
     Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed the progress made by the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts and the
Federal JUdicial Center in providing automation support to the
courts under the five-year plan and concluded that the present
pace of implementation is not rapid enough to meet the desires
and needs of the courts. The Com mittee was of the view that


                              47 

the development of software programs, particularly for full
electronic civil and bankruptcy docketing in the district courts,
should be accelerated and that the current docketing practices
of the district courts should be reviewed to determine their
adaptability to automation so that inefficient operations in
clerks offices will not become magnified by tomorrow's
technological developments. Furthermore, the Com mittee
concluded that more attention is needed in the area of
personnel preparation and training for the increased demands
of the automation process.

      The Committee recognized, however, that the need for
speedier implementation can be met only by more adequate
funding and that resources should also be devoted to the
personnel needs of clerks offices in the automated future. The
Committee also concluded that because of the high volume and
the repetitive nature of their work, the bankruptcy clerks
offices appear to be the entities most likely to benefit from
automation. As a result, separate attention should be given to
their needs. The Committee also concluded that further work
on the bankruptcy noticing system, not inconsistent with the
recent "Dole amendment" requiring the use of contract
services when possible, should be continued and that the
calendaring function should be pursued. The Committee also
believed that because of the strain on currently available
resources implementation of the Probation Information
Management System should be assigned a lower priority than
that of bankruptcy automation.

     Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference directed the Administrative Office and the Federal
Judicial Center to seek additional resources, both money and
personnel, to enable both the Administrative Office and the
Federal .ludicial Center to provide full automation to all courts
more expeditiously. The Conference further directed that a
higher priority be given to the bankruptcy court automation
project than to the Probation Information Management System.

                      COURT SECURITY

      The Conference in March, 1982 (Conf. Rept., p. 49)
resolved that the judicial councils of the circuits maintain
oversight of the implementation of the recent Attorney
General's Task Force Report on Court Security. Recently
some individual judges, and at least one district judges'



                              48 

association, have expressed concern about court security and
indicated their disagreement with the limitations imposed on
the use of United States marshals under the procedures
outlined in the Attorney General's report.

      Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed the task force report and the issues
raised and had concluded that under present budgetary
limitations it is not possible to provide a law enforcement
officer in each courtroom in every case without regard to the
real need for security. If bailiff-type, nonsecurity related
services are needed in a courtroom, the Committee believed
there are less costly ways to provide these services, such as
the use of criers or courtroom attendants. Accordingly, the
Committee has asked the Subcommittee on Supporting
Personnel to study the matter and provide the Committee with
its recommendations. Meanwhile, the Committee has asked
the Administrative Office to recirculate the Attorney
General's task force report to all judges.

     Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved the following resolution:
     That the Judicial Conference approve the
     position that no United States Marshal shall be
     required to be in a courtroom except for security
     purposes, in accordance with the joint statement
     of the Chief Justice and the Attorney General
     and the report of the Attorney GeneralIs Task
     Force on Court Security which the joint
     statement adopts.
              COURT-ANNEXED ARBITRATION

      Beginning in the fiscal year 1978 Congress authorized the
establishment of an experimental court-annexed arbitration
program in three district courts and in the fiscal year 1985
authorized the expenditure of additional funds in the amount of
$400,000 to expand the pilot program to eight other districts.
Several courts have already expressed interest in participating.
       In the 98th Congress Senator Arlen Specter introduced a
bill, S. 2259, which would require each district to establish an
arbitration program by local rule. The bill would set rigorous
jurisdictional requirements for referral of cases to arbitration
and provide for sanctions in the event of an unsuccessful


                              49 

appeal to a district court. It was the view of the Committee
that in light of the limited experience with arbitration in the
district courts it would be premature for Congress to enact
legislation with specific statutory requirements at the present
time. Upon the suggestion of the Committee the Conference
voted to recommend that Congress defer action on S. 2259
until after the expansion of the arbitration pilot program and
the completion of an analysis of its operation.

                 NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS

      At its session in September, 1981 (Conf. Rept., p. 62) the
Conference approved guidelines for the expenditure of
nonappropriated funds which were later published in the Guide
to Judiciary Policies and Procedures. Judge Hunter stated that
in order to reduce questionable expenditures and decrease the
number of inquiries received as to appropriate expenditures,
the Administrative Office had recommended to the Committee
certain modifications to the guidelines. It was the view of the
Conference, however, that the guidelines established under the
previous resolution were sufficient and accordingly voted to
reaffirm the previous Conference resolution.

          RETIREMENT OF TERRITORIAL JUDGES
     The Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee had
requested the views of the Conference on S. 1997, 98th
Congress, a bill to amend Section 373 of title 28, United States
Code, relating to the retirement of territorial judges. The bill
would decrease from 10 to 8 years the period of service
required for retirement and would authorize retirement
annuities to be paid at age 62 rather than at age 65.

      At its session in March, 1982 (Conf. Rept., p. 17) the
Conference recommended comprehensive legislation providing
annuities for judicial officers other than Article m judges.
Upon the recommendation of the Committee the Conference
reaffirmed support for the language contained in a draft bill
submitted by the Committee and recommended that Congress
enact this proposed legislation in lieu of S. 1997.

DISTRIBUTION OF LOCAL RULES OF COURTS OF APPEALS

     Section 2077 of title 28, United States Code, requires the
Judicial Conference to prescribe a fee for the sale of copies of
the local rules of the courts of appeals, but authorizes the


                              50 

Conference to provicle for the free distribution of copies to
members of the bar of each court and other interested
persons. Judge Hunter stated that the courts of appeals in all
circuits currently distribute copies of their local rules free of
charge and that the clerks of the courts of appeals in all
circuits, except one, recommended a practice of free
distribution. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference revised the schedule of fees promulgated pursuant
to 28 U.S.C. 1913 to authorize the free distribution of the local
rules of the courts of appeals. Judge Hunter advised the
Conference that the Committee would consider the question of
providing for the free distribution of the local rules of the
district courts.

                PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

      H.R. 5619, 98th Congress, would add Hauppauge as an
additional place of holding court for the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of New York. Judge Hunter
advised the Conference that the district court and the Judicial
Council of the Second Circuit had approved this proposal.
Upon the recommendation of the Committee the Conference
approved the bill.

               REPORTS OF MATTERS HELD 

            UNDER SUBMISSION OR ADVISEMENT 

     A proposal to revise the procedure for filing reports of
cases held under submission for more than 90 days in the courts
of appeals and cases and motions held under advisement more
than 60 days in the district courts was withdrawn by the
Chairman of the Committee for further study.


    UNIFORM RULES OF DISCIPLINARY ENFORCEMENT
     At its session in September, 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 42) the
Conference approved the Model Rules of Disciplinary
Enforcement promulgated by the American Bar Association
and recommended their adoption by all Federal district and
appellate courts. Judge Hunter informed the Conference that
the Committee had consulted with a representative of the
American Bar Association concerning a need for amendments
to the model rules and concluded that several amendments
should be made. First, the Committee determined that a
technical amendment to the model rules would be advisable to


                              51 

insure that if a state altered its code of professional
responsibility, the sUbstantive disciplinary requirements
applicable in a district court located in that state would not be
different. The Committee also concluded that an attorney
subject to disciplinary action should be required to certify as
to all courts before which the attorney has been admitted to
practice, so that all other courts may be informed of any
disciplinary action.

     The Committee therefore proposed the following
amendments to the Model Federal Rules of Disciplinary
Enforcement:

      (I) That Rule IV.B be amended by inserting the
      words "or Rules of Professional Conduct" after
      the words "Code of Professional Responsibility"
      in each place in which they appear.

      (2) That Rule V.C be amended by inserting at the
      end thereof the following:

            The order to show cause shall
            include a certification of all courts
            before     which    the    attorney­
            respondent is admitted to practice,
            as specified in the form appended
            to these rules.

      (3) That Rule V.D be amended by inserting at the
      end thereof the following:
            The 'attorney-respondent       shall
            execute the certification of all
            courts before which that attorney­
            respondent is admitted to practice,
            in the form specified, and file the
            certification with the answer.
      The Conference approved these recommendations and
also approved a form of certification to be appended to Rule
XV.




                              52 

                     ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS

      Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Committee had reviewed the results of the 1984 biennial survey
of judgeship needs conducted by the Subcommittee on Judicial
Statistics and voted to recommend the creation of additional
judgeships in the United States courts of appeals and in the
United States district courts.
      Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference recommended the creation of additional judgeship
positions in the United States courts of appeals as follows:
     Fourth Circuit • • . • • • . . • • • • • • • • • . . •      I
     Tenth Circuit. • • • • • • . • . • . . • • • . . • • .      1
     Eleventh Circuit. • . . • • • • • • • • . • • • . • •       3

     Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   5

      Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference also recommended the creation of the following
additional permanent and temporary judgeships in the United
States district courts, including the conversion of certain
temporary judgeship positions to permanent status:
     First Circuit:

              Massachusetts                                      1

     Second Circuit:
              Connecticut •.•.•••.••••.••••                      I
              New York, Northern •••••••••.•                     I
              New York, Eastern •••••••••.••                     I
              New York, Southern ..•••••••..                     I
              New York, Western ••.•.••.••••                     1 t/p*

     Third Circuit:
              New Jersey                                         1 temp.
              Virgin Islands ••••••••••••••••                    I temp.




                                      53 

Fourth Circuit:

       1\1aryland • .. .. • . .. .. • .. • .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..   I temp.
       North Carolina, Eastern ••••••••                                 I tip·
       Virginia, Eastern •••••.•.••.••                                  4,

Fifth Circuit:

       Louisiana, Middle •••••••••••••                                  I temp.
       Mississippi, Southern •••••••••••                                I temp.
       Texas, Eastern •..••••••••••••                                   I temp.
       Texas, Southern •.•..••••.•••.                                   3
       Texas, Western •••••••••••••••                                   I

Sixth Circuit:

       Michigan, Eastern. • • • • . . • • • • ..                        2
       Ohio, Northern. • • • • • • • • . • • • • •                      I
       Ohio, Southern. • • . • . • • • • • • . ••                       I

Seventh Circuit:

       illinois, Northern •••••••••••••                                 I + I tip·
       illinois, Central ..•••••••.••.•                                 I temp.
       Indiana, Northern •.•••••••.•.•                                  I tlp*
       Indiana, Southern •••••••••••••                                  1
       Wisconsin, Western ••••••••••..                                  I

Eighth Circuit:

       Arkansas, Western                                                 1
       Iowa, Southern ••••••••••••.••                                    1
       Missouri, Eastern ••••••••••..•                                   1
       Nebraska .............................. . 
                      1 temp.
Ninth Circuit:
       Calif ornia, Northern '.••••••••••                                I + I temp. 

       Calif ornia, Central ••••••••••••                                 3 temp. 

       Idaho .......................................... . 
              1 temp. 

       Oregon ...................................... .. 
                1





                                     54 

     Tenth Circuit:

            Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    I
            Kansas. . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . .   1
            Oklahoma, Western. . • . • . • . • • •.           I + 2 temp.

     Eleventh Circuit:

            Alabama, Northern •..•..•.•••.                    I

            Flori da, Middle .••••••••••....                  I temp. 


     *Existing temporary position to be made permanent.

     In addition, the Conference recommended that the two
roving judgeship positions in the State of Arkansas be made
permanent judgeships for the Eastern District of Arkansas and
that the roving judgeship position for the Northern and
Southern Districts of Iowa be made a permanent judgeship for
the Northern District of Iowa.

      The Committee further submitted information indicating
that if the diversity of citizenship jurisdiction of the Federal
courts were abolished, the number of recommended additional
judgeship positions (both permanent and temporary) would be
reduced from 42 to 9. The recommended additional judgeships
for the courts of appeals, however, would not change because
the elimination of diversity cases would not lower workload
enough to change the recommendations. The Conference
thereupon directed that the next transmittal of Judicial
Conference judgeship recommendations to the Congress
include a detailed table showing the impact of the elimination
of diversity of citizenship jurisdiction on judgeship
req uirements for the district courts.

                       EN BANC HEARINGS

      Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Committee had reconsidered the previous Conference
recommendation that the Congress amend 28 U.S.C. 46(c) to
make clear that a majority of the judges who are qualified to
hear and determine a case be sufficient to order a hearing or
rehearing en banco (Conf. Rept., Sept. 1973, p. 47). Based on
an analysis of the Supreme Court opinion in Western Pacific
Railroad Cor. v. Western Pacific Railroad Co., 345 U.S. 247
 1953 , and other decisions, a member of the Subcommittee on
Federal Jurisdiction concluded that each court of appeals may


                                   55 

regulate its procedure for the consideration of a petition to
hear or rehear a case en banc by local rule. The adoption of a
local rule must be by a majority vote of the judges in regular
active service, but the rule itself may authorize the granting
of the petition by a vote of a majority of active judges who are
not disqalified.

     Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference voted to rescind its 1973 resolution calling for an
amendment to 28 U.S.C. 46(c) and to recommend that each
court of appeals consider adopting a local rule under 28 U.S.C.
2071 and 2077 and Rule 47 of the Federal Rules of Appellate
Procedure establishing a process for determining when a case
is to be heard or reheard en banc, including whether an
absolute majority or a qualified majority of judges is required
to vote to hear or rehear a case en banco

                 MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION

      H.R. 5159, 98th Congress, is a bill to permit a transferee
judge to consolidate multidistrict cases for the trial of liability
and, if certain requirements are met, for the determination of
damages. The bill would also provide for nationwide subpoena
power and for a single judge determination of the substantive,
controlling state law for all actions consolidated. S. 2260, 98th
Congress, would· permit the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
Litigation to consolidate Clayton antitrust actions for trial
whether private or United States cases.           S. 2454, 98th
Congress, would permit the Panel on Multidistrict Litigation to
consolidate private Clayton antitrust actions for trial.

       Since 1977 it has been the consistent view of the
Multidistrict Litigation Panel that it should not be given the
power to consolidate cases for trial.        Although the bar
perceives a need for a consolidation power, it was the view of
the Committee that sections 1404 and 1406 of title 28, United
States Code, in conjunction with the powers granted to the
Multidistrict Litigation Panel under section 1407, currently
provide sufficient authority for the consolidation of cases for
trial.

      Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference voted to advise Congress that there is no need for
further legislation authorizing the consolidation of cases for
trial in the light of 28 U.S.C. 1404, 1406 and 1407; that it
recommends against enactment of the proposal contained in


                               56 

R.R. 4159 to amend 28 U.S.C. 1407 to require the transferee
judge to determine controlling state la\,.7 for all actions
consolidated; and that the enactment of S. 2260 and S. 2454 is
unnecessary and an erosion of general policy through special
provisions affecting only limited types of litigation.

                  INTERSTATE COMMERCE

     R.R. 3919, 98th Congress, wou]d reverse the
Congressional action of 1978 creating a $10,000 jurisdictional
amount for shippers' damage cases.          Prior to 1978 many
metropolitian district courts, particularly the District of
Massachusetts, were inundated with large numbers of claims
for damages to perishable commodities, such as fruit and
vegetables, in which the damages alleged rarely exceeded $200
per case. Although some states will not admit into evidence an
agricultural inspector's certificate that is generally admissible
in a district court, the Committee believed that this is a
problem of state law and one that does not require federal
involvement. Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference recommended against the enactment of H.R. 3919.

        STAFF ATTORNEY RETIREMENT COVERAGE
      The Conference in September, 1983 (Conf. Rept., p. 53)
authorized law clerks and legal assistants appointed on or after
January 1, 1984 to elect a temporary "term" appointment or a
permanent "career" appointment.         Law clerks and lega]
assistants electing a term appointment would not be included
in the Civil Service Retirement System, .but would corne under
the Social Security System and be required to pay social
security taxes. Those who eJected to have a permanent career
appointment would be subject to both civil service retirement
deductions and social security taxes. Previous Conference
action, however, did not cover staff attorney positions in
central legal offices.

      Judge Hunter informed the Conference that several staff
attorneys have expressed an interest in being offered the same
option given to law clerks and legal assistants. It was the view
of the Committee that staff attorneys should be given this
opportunity. The election to be appointed under a term or
career appointment, however, should be made at the time of




                              57 

appointment and the election should be submitted in writing to
the Administrative Office. Upon the recommendation of the
Committee the Conference adopted the following resolution:

     That the resolution approved by the Judicial
     Conference at its September, 1983 session for
     appointments of law clerks and legal assistants
     be amended to include staff attorney offices
     where appointments of over one and up to three
     years are established as a condition of
     employment.

 SECRETARIES TO FEDERAL JUDGES AND MAGISTRATES

     It has been the practice within the Judiciary to retain the
secretary of a deceased judge or magistrate on the payroll for
a period of 30 to 90 days to wind up the affairs of the judicial
officer. Thereafter the secretary may accept another position
in the court system, but at the lower grade'level authorized for
that position. Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
regulations in the Executive Branch authorize the retention of
a secretary at the same grade level for a period of two years
even though the secretary has accepted a lower-graded
position. The secretary, however, must have served a period of
two years and a minimum of 52 consecutive weeks at the grade
higher than that of the position in which placed.

      It was the view of the Committee that the use of a
similar system would benefit the courts by maintaining trained
and knowledgeable individuals who could be called upon to
assist visiting judges or magistrates or, if selected, provide a
trained secretary for a newly appointed judge or magistrate,
but that the retention period for a secretary to a deceased
judge or magistrate should be only one year. Under these
procedures a secretary must be selected for appointment to a
vacant position in the court which is graded lower than the
secretary's current grade without a break in service. At the
end of the one year retention period the secretary's grade
would revert to the highest grade authorized for the position
held.

     Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference adopted the following resolution:




                              58 

     Any secretary to a deceased judge or magistrate
     who has 52 weeks or more of service as a
     secretary to the judge or magistrate, and is
     appointed, at the discretion of the appointing
     officer, to an available vacant position for which
     qualified within the court, without a break in
     service, will retain his or her current grade and
     pay for a one year period.

                     COURT REPORTERS

      Judge Hunter informed the Conference that 28 United
States district courts had requested authority for a total of 43
court reporter positions in addition to the complement
authorized by the ratio of one court reporter per active
judge. These requests include the continuance of 38 positions
currently authorized and five new positions. At its session in
September, 1983 (Conf. Rept., p. 52) the Conference considered
similar requests for the continuation of existing positions or
for new positions and submitted them to the Subcommittee on
Supporting Personnel for review. At that time the Conference
also concluded that "in the interim, swing court reporter
positions that become vacant should be abolished, unless the
Director of the Administrative Office determines the position
is necessary and approves a temporary appointment pursuant
28 U .S.C. 753(a)."

      At the suggestion of Judge Hunter the Conference
authorized three additional swing court reporter positions on a
temporary basis, one each in the Southern District of Florida,
the Eastern District of Missouri and the Eastern District of
Texas; continued the existing positions approved under the
previous Conference resolution for a period of six months; and
asked the Committee to report further at the next Conference
session.

      Judge Hunter also stated that the Committee would
consider further the policy question of whether a district court
in establishing a regular tour of duty for court reporters must
do so for all reporters at the same geographic location.




                              59 

                COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

    Judge Charles Clark, Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget, submitted the Committee'S report.

             SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS 

                FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1985 


      The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, authorized the Director of the Administrative
Office to submit to the Congress requests for supplemental
appropriations in the amount of $51,029,000 for the fiscal year
1985. The request will include funds for an anticipated 3.5
percent increase in salaries to become effective October 1,
1984; an increase of 15 percent in the cost of health benefits
effective in January, 1985; additional funds required because of
the 85 additional Article III judgeship positions created by
Public Law 98-353; the cost of increased staff resulting from
its passage; costs associated with the liberalization of the age
and service requirements for retirement purposes authorized
by the new public law; and additional funds for the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts required to
service the new judgeship positions.
     The Director of the Administrative Office was further
authorized to amend the supplemental appropriation request
because of any new legislation, action taken by the Judicial
Conference, or for any other reason the Director and the
Budget Committee consider necessary and appropriate.

      APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1986

      The Conference approved the budget estimates for the
fiscal year 1986, prepared by the Director of the
Administrative Office and submitted by the Committee. The
estimates, exclusive of the Supreme Court, United States
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the Court of
International Trade and the Federal Judicial Center total
$1,098,846,000, an increase of $106,849,000 or 10 percent over
the amount appropriated by the Congress for the fiscal year
1985, adjusted to reflect proposed supplemental appropriation
requests for pay adjustments and new program costs. Provision
has been made in the budget estimates for an additional 1,327
permanent positions.      Approximately 44 percent of the
increases in the budget are for mandatory or uncontrollable
costs such as within grade salary advancements, promotions,


                              60 

increases in contract rates~ and charges for equipment,
services and supplies, as well as rental increases for space
occupied by the courts. The remaining increases are necessary
in order to staff and support the new judgeship positions anci to
maintain the same level of support and services required by the
rapidly growing workload of the judiciary.

     The Director of the Administrative Office was authorized
to amend the budget estimates because of new legislation,
action taken by the Judicial Conference, or for any other
reason the Director and the Budget Committee consider
necessary and appropriate.

               JUDICIAL ETIDCS COMMITTEE

     Judge Edward A. Tamm, Chairman of the statutory
Judicial Ethics Committee, presented the Committee's
report.
               ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE

      Judge Tamm informed the Conference that the
Committee has received 1,875 financial disclosure reports for
the calendar year 1983, including 964 reports from judicial
officers and 911 reports from judicial employees. Since January
1, 1984, the Committee has also received 31 reports from
nominees to judgeship positions. All reports submitted to the
Committee are being reviewed by at least one Committee
member to determine whether they comply with 28 U.S.C.
App. I 306(a).

      The Conference was informed that one judicial officer
and 10 judicial employees had failed to file reports covering the
calendar year 1983. In the absence of filing, the Committee,
acting in accordance with the procedures previously adopted by
the Committee and reported to the Conference in September,
1980 (Conf. Rept., p. 76), will consider a reference to the
Attorney General under 28 U.S.C. App. I 304(b).

           REPORTING FORM AND INSTRUCTIONS

      Judge Tamm stated that the Committee has endeavored
to limit changes in the reporting form and instructions in order
to facilitate compatibility of reports with those submitted in
prior years, and to ease the burden on reporting individuals in
preparing their reports.       The Committee recommended,


                               61 

however, that the note at the beginning of the approved
reporting form be amended by adding the words "Compare and
reconcile this year's report with last year's" and that the
certification appearing at the end of the report be clarified.
The Conference approved these recommendations and further
directed that a reference to Canon 3C(3)(c) of the Code of
Judicial Conduct be added to the certification at the end of
the form.

      The Committee also recommended a change in the
instructions to clarify the requirement for reporting assets
held as a trustee or other fidiciary for the benefit of any other
person.    This recommendation was also approved by the
Conference.

       ETHICS IN GOVERNMENT ACT AMENDMENTS

      The Chairman of the House Judiciarv Committee had
requested the views of the Conference on- H.R. 5573, 98th
Congress, a bill to provide a method for changing the values
specified for reporting gifts and assets to account for
inflation. It was the view of the Committee that no change in
the law is necessary. The Conference thereupon recommended
against the enactment of the bill.
          DISPOSITION OF DISCLOSURE REPORTS

     The Ethics in Government Act, Section 305(d), provides in
part that "any report received (by the Judicial Ethics
Committee) shall be held in its custody and be made available
to the public for a period of six years after receipt of the
report.    After such six year period the report shall be
destroyed unless needed in an ongoing investigation •.• II The
Act does not make provision for the disposition of copies of
financial disclosure reports filed with the clerks of court.
Upon the recommendation of the Committee the Conference
authorized the clerks of court to destroy copies of disclosure
reports in their possession after a period of six years in
accordance with the statutory provisions applicable to the
disposition of the records of the Judicial Ethics Committee.




                              62 

     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

     Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the
Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct, presented the
report of the Committee.

              ACTIVITIES OF THE     CO~/'MITTEE

      Judge Markey informed the Conference that since its last
report the Committee had received 19 inquiries from persons
subject to the various codes of conduct and had issued 16
advisory responses. The Committee is also publishing Advisory
Opinion No. 74 pertaining to the situation in which a lawyer or
law firm in a case has agreed to employ the judge's present law
clerk; Advisory Opinion No. 75 covering the situation in which
a judge receives a governmental or military pension and a
military or governmental service is a party in a case; and a
revision of Advisory Opinion No. 17 pertaining to the receipt or
reimbursement of travel expenses by a judge and spouse.

               CODE OF JUDICIAL CONDUCT

     The Committee submitted the following amendments to
the Code of Conduct for United States Judges which were
approved by the Conference:

     (I) That the "Compliance" section of the Code be
     amended by adding the words "or as specal
     master" to the end of subsection B.

     (2)    That the title "Effective Date of
     Compliance" be amended to clarify the Code's
     applicability to new judges by substituting
     "Applicable" for "Effective" and by adding at the
     end of the first sentence the words "following
     appointment."

     (3) That the following paragraph be added to the
     commentary following Canon 3C(I)(d)(ii) "That a
     judge's law clerk may have a prospective
     employment relation with a law firJTl in a case
     does not disqualify the judge when the law clerk
     has been excluded from all contact with the
     case. Judges may elect to notify counsel of the
     potential relation and the exclusion."



                              63
           CODE OF CONDUCT FOR LAW CLERKS

     Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference amended Canon 3 of the Code of Conduct for Law
Clerks by adding the following subdivision:

     D. A law clerk should inform the appointing­
     judge of any circumstance or activity of the law
     clerk which might serve as a basis for
     disqualification of the judge, e.g., a prospective
     employment relationship with a law firm,
     association of the clerk's spouse with a law firm
     or litigant, etc.

       COMMITTEE ON INTERcmcurr ASSIGNMENTS

     The written report of the Committee on Intercircuit
Assignments, submitted by the Chairman, Judge Thomas A.
Flannery, was received by the Conference.

     The report indicated that during the period February 15,
1984 through August 15, 1984 the Committee recommended 61
assignments to be undertaken by 40 judges. Of this number, 15
were senior circuit judges, 5 were active circuit judges, 13
were senior district judges, 3 were active district judges, 1 was
a senior judge of the Court of International Trade, 2 were
active judges of the Court of International Trade, anol was an
active judge of a bankruptcy court.

      Of the 61 assignments approved, 29 judges undertook 41
assignm ents to the courts of appeals and 13 judges undertook 16
assignments to the district courts.       In addition 1 active
bankruptcy judge undertook 4 assignments to a bankruptcy
court outside of the circuit.

 COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

     Judge Edward T. Gignoux, Chairman of the Standing
Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, presented the
report of the Committee.

                         CIVIL RULES

     The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed
amendments to Rules 6(a), 45(d)(2), 52(a), 71A(h), and 83;
Supplemental Admiralty Rules B(I), C(3), and E(4)(f); and


                              64 

Official Form IS-A.        The proposed amendments were
accompanied by 8 report from the Advisory Com mittee
Chairman summarizing the work of the Advisory Committee
and !lCom mittee N ote~!1 explaining the purpose and intent of
the proposed amendments. The Committee recommended that
these proposed amendments be approved by the Conference
and transmitted to the Supreme Court for its consideration
with a recommendation that they be approved by the Court and
transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law.              This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.

                        CRIMINAL RULES

      The Committee also submitted proposed amendments to
Rules 6(e)(3)(A)(ii), 6(e)(3)(B) and (C), ll{c)(1), 12.1(£), l2.2(e),
35(b), 45(13), 49(e) and 57 of the Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure. The proposed amendments were accompanied by a
report from the Advisory Committee Chairman summarizing
the work of the Advisory Committee and "Committee Notes"
explaining the purpose and intent of the proposed
amendments.        The Committee recommended that these
proposed amendments be approved by the Conference and
transmitted to the Supreme Court for its consideration with a
recommendation that they be approved by the Court and
transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law. The Conference
approved the recommendation with the understanding that the
committee note accompanying the amendment to Rule 35 will
be amended to indicate that a defendant is not precluded from
filing a motion to reduce a sentence even though the court
reduces sentence on its own motion.

                     BANKRUPTCY RULES

      Judge Gignoux informed the Conference that the
Committee had approved the circulation of a preliminary draft
of proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 5002 and 5004
for comment by the bench and bar. These rules pertain to
prohibited appointments by bankruptcy judges. The Advisory
Committee on Bankruptcy Rules advised of a need to proceed
with the consideration of these proposed amendments on an
expedited basis. Accordingly written comments have been
requested by December 31, 1984 and a public hearing will be
held in Washington, D.C. on January 17, 1985. The Committee
plans to present these proposed amendments to the Conference




                                65 

at its session in March 1985 with a recommendation that they
be transmitted immediately to the Supreme Court for its
consideration and possible report to the Congress by the Chief
Justice prior to May 1, 1985.

      The Conference thereupon authorized the Committee to
present its final recommendations on these proposed
amendments to the Executive Committee of the Conference
for its consideration, so that they may be presented to the
Supreme Court at the earliest possible date.      Executive
Committee action will be reported to the Conference at its
next session in March, 1985.

            ADDITIONAL RULES AMENDMENTS

     Judge Gignoux also advised the Conference that at the
request of the Advisory Committees on Appellate, Civil and
Criminal Rules, additional proposed rules amendments are
being circulated to the bench and bar and public for
com ment.     Public hearings on these proposals have been
scheduled. The Committee anticipates that, if approved by the
Advisory Committees and the Standing Committee, they will
be submitted to the Conference for consideration at its
September, 1985 session. In addition, the Advisory Committee
on the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure has completed a
study of the operation of Appellate Rule 30, Appendix to the
Briefs, which will soon be published.

                   RULES ENABLING ACTS

      The Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee had
requested the views of the Conference on H.B.. 5061, 98th
Congress, a bill to terminate certain authority of the jUdicial
branch of the government which is SUbject to congressional
review unless the authority is approved by an enactment of the
Congress. The apparent purpose of the bill is to eliminate
from the Evidence Rules Enabling Act, 28 U.S.C. 2076, a
"legislative veto"     provision    similar   to   that    held
unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in Immigration and
Naturalization Service v. Chadha,        U.S.    , 103 Sup. Ct.
2764 (I983).                       --         -­

     The Committee recommended that the Conference advise
the Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee that it
approves eliminating the "legislative veto" provision from 28
U.S.C. 2076, but that the bill is unclear and does not appear to


                              66 

accomplish its intended purpose. Upon the recommendation of
the Committee the Conference voted to disapprove the bill in
its present form.

                 LOCAL RULES OF COURT

       For several years the Committee has considered the
problem posed by local circuit and district court rules which
have proliferated in recent years and many of which appear to
be inconsistent with the general rules of practice and
procedure. Judge Gignoux stated that the Committee had
reviewed a comprehensive local district court rules index
prepared by the Administrative Office which indicates a need
f or a thorough study. Because such a study would transcend
the work of anyone advisory committee, the Standing
Committee has assumed responsibility for this study and
requested that the Chief Justice be authorized to appoint a
reporter to the Standing Committee to prepare a plan for the
study of local district court rules and perhaps to conduct any
study approved by the Committee. The Advisory Committee
on the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure is currently
studying the local rules of the courts of appeals. Both studies
will he coordinated. The Conference thereupon authorized the
Chief Justice to appoint a reporter to the Standing Committee
f or this purpose.

        COMMITTEE ON THE ADM1NISTRAnON OF 

              THE PROBAnON SYSTEM 


    Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat, Chairman of the Committee on
the Administration of the Probation System, presented the
Committee's report.
                  SENTENCING INSTITUTES

     The Conference in March, 1984 (Conf. Rept., p. 14)
approved plans for a Joint Institute on Sentencing for the
judges of the Fifth and Seventh Circuits to be held at the
Federal Correctional Institution at Butner, North Carolina,
April 1-3, 1985. Upon the recommendation of the Committee
the Conference approved the time, place, participants and
tentative agenda for this sentencing institute. The final
agenda will be submitted to the March, 1985 meeting of the
Conf erence.




                             67
      The Conference also authorized the Committee te;
develop plans for & Joint Institute on Sentencing for the judges
of the Eighth and Tenth Circuits to be held sometime in 1985,
ana &- Joint Institute on Sentencing for the judges of the Second
and Sixth Circuits to be held at Butner, North Carolina during
thE: fiscal year- 1986. Planning continues for the Institute on
Sentencing for the judges of the Ninth Circuit which was
authorizeci by the Conference in March, 1984 (Conf. Rept., p.
14),

       PROBATION AND PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICERS

      Judge Tjoflat informed the Conference that Congress has
appropriated funds for 248 of the 330 positions requested for
the probation service for the fiscal year 1985, including 168 of
the 224 requested probation officer positions and 80 of the 106
requested probation clerks. The Appropriation Act, however,
provides only 153 of the 373 positions requested for pretrial
services. In explaining this reduction the report of the House
Appropriations Committee stated:

       The remaining positions in the budget base will
       allow for the continuation of pretrial services in
       the demonstration districts •.• as well as provide
       staffing for those districts where the courts have
       elected to establish separate agencies. There
       would appear to be a question as to whether the
       Pretrial Services Act authorizes the appointment
       of additional personnel in probation offices to
       perform pretrial services.          Although the
       Committee is not questioning the merits of the
       Pretrial Services program, the Committee has
       not provided any funds or positions for additional
       personnel in probation offices to perform the
       pretrial services function untiJ this ambiguity is
       resolved. In addition, the Committee believes
       the courts should utilize contract services as
       provided for in the Pretrial Services Act,
       especially in those areas where the workload is
       minimal. H. Rept. 98-802, p.50.

     The Congressional conferees on the appropriations bill
adopted the House position stating:




                               68 

     The conferees are agreed that base funding for
     the pretrial services program will be restored
     when the issue concerning the authorization for
     this program is resolved by the House and Senate
     Judiciary Committees. H. Rept. 98-952.

      Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference authorized the allocation of the 153 available
pretrial services positions to the demonstration districts and to
those districts which have elected to establish separate
pretrial services offices. The Committee further noted that
when the positions now available have been allocated, the
remaining 79 courts will have to provide pretrial services with
existing staff. If one of these courts subsequently elects to
establish a separate office there will be no funds to provide
staff until appropriations are made available.

      Judge Tjoflat stated that the Committee has approved a
request for 447 additional positions to be included in the
appropriation request for the fiscal year 1986, based on the
application of the approved staffing formula to the projected
workload. If the request is approved, the Committee plans to
allocate 307 of the 447 positions to probation offices to
perform pretrial services work.

            SENTENCING REFORM LEGISLATION

      Judge Tjoflat reported to the Conference in detail on the
status of sentencing reform legislation. On August 8, 1984,
the Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives
ordered reported H.R. 6012, the "Sentencing Revision Act of
1984." Judge Tjoflat said that it was probable that the House
would consider the bill before adjournment. The Senate had
previously passed a similar bill on February 2, 1984.

      The sentencing bill endorsed by the Conference in 1983
continues to provide the basis for the Probation Committee's
efforts to ensure that any guideline legislation ultimately
enacted will be capable of being implemented with a minimum
of disruption for both district and appellate courts. At the
March, 1984 meeting of the Conference (Conf. Rept., p. 15)
concern was expressed about the impact of sentence review on
the workload of the courts of appeals.        The Conference
resolved "that the subject of appellate review of sentencing be
recommitted to the Committee for further study and report."



                              69 

      Judge Tjoflat reported that, upon reconsideration, the
Committee had again endorsed the appellate review provisions
of the bill that was approved by the Conference in March,
1983.     The Committee recognized that there is an
overwhelming consensus in the political branches of the
government in favor of a system of sentencing guidelines
whose binding nature is enforced through appellate review.
The appellate review provisions of the Judicial Conference bill
seem to the Committee to impose the minimum burden on the
appellate courts that is consistent with the fundamental
purpose of a guideline sentencing system - to reduce disparity
by producing enf or ceable standards to gui de trial judges'
sentencing decisions. The Committee believes that the 1983
Conference bill would generate fewer appeals than the
appellate review legislation submitted to the Congress by the
Judicial Conference in 1977.

      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
               BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

     Judge Robert E. DeMascio, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System, presented the
report of the Com mittee.

             SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT OF 

                  BANKRUPTCY JUDGES 


      The Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal Judgeship Act
of 1984, Public Law 98-353, gives jurisdiction over bankruptcy
matters to the respective United States district courts and
authorizes the district courts to refer any or all bankruptcy
cases or proceedings to bankruptcy judges. Under the new
statute bankruptcy judges are judicial officers of the United
States district courts and are to be appointed by the respective
courts of appeals for terms of 14 years. Section 120 of the Act
requires the judicial councils of the circuits to assist the courts
of appeals in evaluating potential nominees and to recommend
qualified persons for appointment as bankruptcy judges "under
regulations prescribed by the Judicial Conference."

      Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Executive Committee of the Conference had previously
approved regulations for the selection and appointment of
bankruptcy judges which are similar to the Conference's
regulations governing the selection and appointment of United
States magistrates. The Conference thereupon ratified the


                               70 

action taken by the Executive Committee and authorized the
Bankruptcy Committee to review the regulations, and any
comments thereon which may be received, and to report to the
Conference at its next session.

       ARRANGEMENTS FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

     The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, changed the official duty station of the
bankruptcy judge for the Northern District of Mississippi from
Greenville to Aberdeen.

      COMMlTI'EE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 

           FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM 


     Judge Garnett Thomas Eisele, a member of the the
Committee on the Administration of the Federal Magistrates
System, presented the Commi ttee's report on behalf of the
Chairman, Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jr.

       SALARIES OF CLERKS OF COURT SERVING AS 

               PART-TIME MAGISTRATES 


      At its session in September, 1974 (Conf. Rept., p. 69) the
Conference resolved that lithe aggregate compensation of an
individual who holds a combination position of part-time
magistrate and clerk of a district court shall not exceed the
salary payable to either a full-time magistrate or a clerk of
court of a large district court, whichever is lesser." Judge
Eisele stated that at the present time the salary of a clerk of
court in a large district exceeds the salary of a full-time
magistrate by $300. As a result, a clerk of a large district
court who also performs magistrate duties would, under the
previous resolution of the Conference, be required to accept a
lesser salary for the performance of additional magistrate
duties. Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference resolved that the special limitation on the
aggregate compensation of an individual who holds a
combination position of part-time magistrate and clerk of a
district court shall not apply to a clerk of a district court who
receives no additional compensation or increase in grade for
the performance of part-time magistrate duties.




                              71 

                LOCATIONS OF MAGISTRATES 


      Three United States district courts have expressed B.
desire to move an incumbent full-time magistrate from s
currently specified location to the location fixed for a recently
authorized fu11-time magistrate position established elsewhere
in the district. It was the view of the Committee that the
district courts should have the flexibility to reassign
magistrates with the concurrence of the j,udicial council of the
circuit. A reassignment would not amount to a reappointment,
but would be a continuation of the existing term. To ensure
that the judicial council of the circuit has the views of all
concerned, the district courts should give advance notice of a
proposed reassignm ent to the magistrate involved and to the
Director of the Administrative Office and afford an
opportunity for them to offer pertinent information.

      Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference authorized the district courts to reassign a
magistrate from one authorized location within a district to
another at the same salary level, but only with the prior
specific approval of the judicial council of the circuit, provided
that the court has advised the magistrate concerned and the
Director of the Administrative Office of the proposed
reassignment and given them the opportunity to submit
comments to the council for its consideration in determining
whether to grant approval.

            CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

      After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the
circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
magistrate positions.     Unless otherwise indicated, these
changes are to become effective when appropriated funds are
available. The salaries of full-time magistrate positions are to
be determined in accordance with the salary plan previously
adopted by the Conference.




                               72 

                         FIRST CIRCUIT 


Massachuset ts:

     (1)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
     Worcester (or Ayer) for an additional four-year term at
     the currently authorized salary of $14,710 per annum.

Puerto Rico:

     0)   Continued the full-time magistrate position at San
     Juan which is due to expire on May 31, 1985, for an
     additional eight-year term~

                        SECOND CIRCUIT

New York, Eastern:

     0)     Continued the full-time magistrate position at
     Brooklyn which is due to expire on June 19, 1985, for an
     additional eight-year term.

     (2) Continued the full-time magistrate position at
     Hempstead for an additional eight-year term.

     (3) Authorized a fourth full-time magistrate position at
     Brooklyn.

                        THIRD CIRCUIT

Pennsylvania, Middle:

     0)    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
     Scranton for an additional four-year term and increased
     the salary of the position from $21,956 per annum to
     $28,933 per annum.

     (2) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
     position at Stroudsburg from $2,920 per annum to $14,710
     per annum.




                              73 

Pennsylvania, Western:

     (1)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
     Johnstown for an additional four-year term and reduced
     the salary of the position from $2,920 per annum to
     $1,947 per annum.

Virgin Islands:

     (I) Converted either the part-time magistrate position at
     Christiansted, or the clerk-magistrate position at
     Charlotte Amalie, at the discretion of the court, to a
     full-time magistrate position.

     (2)   Continued the     part-time magistrate position at
     Christiansted and the   authorization of the clerk of court
     at Charlotte Amalie     to perform part-time magistrate
     duties for additional   four-year terms at the currently
     authorized salaries.

                     FOURTH CIRCUIT

North Carolina, Eastern:

     (I) Continued the authorization of the clerk of court at
     Raleigh to perform the duties of a part-time magistrate
     for an additional four-year term at the currently
     authorized salary payable to the clerk of a large district
     court.

     (2)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
     Wilmington for an additional four-year term at the
     currently authorized salary of $4,867 per annum.

Virginia, Eastern:
     (0     Continued the full-time magistrate position at
     Alexandria which is due to expire on September 30, 1985,
     for an additional eight-year term.

     (2)    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
     Norfolk which is due to expire on April 30, 1985, for an
     additional eight-year term.




                              74 

     (3)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
     Richmond for an additional four-year term and increased
     the salary from $28,933 per annum to $33,050 per annum.

West Virginia, Northern:

     (I)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
     Morgantown (or Fairmount or Clarksburg) for an
     additional four-year term at the currently authorized
     salary of $2,920 per annum.

                        FIFTH CIRCUIT

Texas, Southern:

     (1) Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at
     Galveston at a salary of $33,050 per annum.

Texas, Eastern:

     (1) Authorized the part-time magistrate at Texarkana to
     exercise jurisdiction in the adjoining Western District of
     Arkansas.

     (2) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
     position at Texarkana from $2,920 per annum to $3,894
     per annum upon implementation of the adjoining district
     jurisdiction.

Texas, Western:

     (1) Converted the part-time magistrate position at Waco
     to a full-tim e magistrate position.

                        SIXTH CIRCUIT

Ohio, Northern:

     0)  Authorized a third full-time magistrate position at
     Cleveland.

     (2) Continued the full-time magistrate position at Akron
     for an additional eight-year term.

     (3) Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
     Lima upon the expiration of the current term.


                              75 

Ohio, Southern:

      0)   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
      Dayton for an additional eight-year term.

Tennessee, Eastern:

      (I)  Continued the full-time magistrate position at
      Knoxville for an additional eight-year term.

                      SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Illinois, Central:

      (1)   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
      Springfield for an additional eight-year term.

      (2) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Rock
      Island for an additional four-year term at the currently
      authorized salary of $8,869 per annum.

                       EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Arkansas, Eastern:
      (1)  Authorized a third full-time magistrate position at
      Little Rock.

Arkansas, Western:
      0)   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
      Texarkana, effective November 30, 1984, or upon the
      designation of the part-time magistrate at Texarkana,
      Texas to exercise jurisdiction in the adjoining Western
      District of Arkansas, whichever is earlier.

Missouri, Western:
      (1)    Authorized a full-time magistrate position at
      Jefferson City.

      (2) Authorized the full-time magistrate at Jefferson City
      to exercise jurisdiction in the adjoining Eastern District
      of Missouri.



                              76
North   Dakota~


     (I) Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
     position at Grand Forks from $2,920 per annum to $3,894
     per annum.

South Dakota:

     (I)   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
     position at Rapid City from $14,710 per annum to $33,050
     per annum.

     (2) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Sioux
     Falls at the currently authorized salary of $8,869 per
     annum.

                         NINTH CIRCUIT

Alaska:

        0)   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
        Anchorage for an additional eight-year term.

     (2)    Waived the statutory 5-year bar membership
     requirement for the part-:-time magistrate position at
     Nome upon a finding that no individual meeting the
     5-year requirement is available to serve at that location.

California, Northern:

     0) Continued the full-time magistrate position at San
     Francisco which is due to expire on December 19, 1985,
     for an additional eight-year term.

        (2)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
        Monterey (or Salinas) for an additional four-year term at
        the currently authorized salary of $28,933 per annum.

California, Central:

        0)  Redesignated the official location of the newly
     authorized full-time magistrate position at Santa Ana as
     Santa Ana or Los Angeles and removed the condition on
     filling the position.




                               77 

Hawaii:

     (1)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
     Honolulu for BI\ additional four-year term at the
     currently authorized salary of $33,050 per annum.

     (2)    Authorized a part-time magistrate position at
     Johnston Island at a salary of $1,947 per annum. The
     position had been scheduled for discontinuance effective
     September 30, 1984.

Idaho:

     (1)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
     Pocatello for an additional four-year term and increased
     the salary from $8,869 per annum to $14,710 per annum.

     (2) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Coeur
     d'Alene (or Moscow) for an additional four-year term at
     the currently authorized salary of $8,869 per annum.

Washington, Western:

     (1)    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
     Seattle which is due to expire on July 31, 1985, for an
     additional eight-year term.

                       TENTH CIRCUIT

Colorado:

     (1) Increased the sl..!iry of the part-time magistrate
     position at Rocky Mountain National Park from $8,869
     per annum to $12,763 per annum.

Kansas:

     (1)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
     Junction City for an additional four-year term and
     increased the salary from $10,816 per annum to $16,765
     per annum.

     (2)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
     Leavenworth for an additional four-year term and
     increased the salary from $6,922 per annum to $10,816 per
     annum.


                            78
New Mexico:

     (1)   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
      Albuquerque to a full-time position.

     (2)   Continued the part-ti me magistrate position at
     Farmington for an additional four-year term at the
     currently authorized salary of $1,947 per annum.

Oklahoma, Northern:

     (1)  Continued the full-time magistrate position at Tulsa
     for an additional eight-year term.

Oklahoma, Eastern:

     (1)  Converte'd the part-time magistrate position at
     Muskogee to a full-time position.

Oklahoma, Western:

     (1)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
     Oklahoma City for an additional four-year term and
     increased the salary from $16,765 per annum to $19,361
     per annum.

     (2) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Enid
     for an additional four-year term at the currently
     authorized salary of $ 2, 920 per annum, subject to revi ew
     in one year.
                      ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Alabama, Southern:
     (1)  Retained the part-time magistrate position at Selma
     at the currently authorized salary of $1,947 per annum.

Florida, Middle:

     0)  Authorized a third full-time magistrate position at
     Tampa.




                             79 

Florida, Southern:

     (1) Continued the full-time magistrate position at Miami,
     which is due to expire on December 11, 1985, for an
     additional eight-year term.

     (2) Continued the full-time magistrate position at Fort
     Lauderdale for an additional eight-year term.

     (3) Continued the part-time magistrate position at Key
     West for an additional four-year term at the currently
     authorized salary of $21,956 per annum.

Georgia Southern:

     0)    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
     Swainsboro for an additional four-year term at the
     currently authorized salary of $3,894 per annum.

              COMMITTEE TO IMPLEMENT THE 

                 CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT 


    Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the Committee
to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented the
Committee's report.

              APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

      Judge MacBride submitted to the Conference a report on
appointments and payments under the Criminal Justice Act for
the first half of the fiscal year 1984. The report indicated that
$37,000,000 was available for the implementation of the
Criminal Justice Act at the beginning of the fiscal year and
that projected obligations for the year are $39,265,000. A
supplem ental appropriations request in the amount of
$2,265,000 to cover pay costs and additional program
requirements has been approved by the Congress.               The
supplemental request also provides funding for the
establishment of a Federal Public Defender Organization to
serve the Northern, Eastern and Western Districts of
Oklahoma.

      During the first half of the fiscal year 1984 approximately
21,700 persons were represented under the Criminal Justice
Act, compared to 20,700 in the first half of the fiscal year
1983, an increase of 4.8 percent. This increase parallels the


                              80 

rise of 4.3 percent in the number of criminal cases commenced
in the United States district courts during the twelve month
period ended March 31, 1984. Of the 21,700 persons represented
during the first half of the fiscal year, 13,040, or 60 percent,
were represented by Federal Public and Community Defender
Organizations, an increase of 3.7 percent from the number of
appointments made during the first half of the fiscal year
1983.

                      BUDGET REQUESTS ­
                  FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS 


      The Criminal Justice Act, as amended, requires each
Federal Public Defender Organization, established pursuant to
18 U.S.C. 3006A(h)(2)(A), to submit a proposed budget to be
approved by the Judicial Conference in accordance with 28
U.S.C. 605. Judge MacBride stated that the Committee had
reviewed four requests for supplemental funding for the fiscal
year 1985 and had reviewed requests from the 35 Federal
Public Defender Organizations for funding for the fiscal year
1986.

      The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved supplemental budget requests for the
fiscal year 1985 for Federal Defender Organizations as follows:

     Lousiana, Eastern ••••.••••••••••••                           $ 7,072
     Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          27,750
     Texas, Southern •••••••••.••••••••                              63,479
     Texas, Western •.•.••.••••••••••••                              59,487

         TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        $ 157,788 


      The Conference, also upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved budget requests for the fiscal year 1986
for the Federal Public Defender Organizations as follows:

     Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $     916,883
     California, Northern •••••••••••••.                          1,021,465
     California, Eastern •••••.••.•.••••                            905,896
     California, Central •••••••••••••••                          1,808,801
     Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           464,307
     Connecticut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            433,688
     Florida, Northern ••••••••••••••••                             270,252
     Florida, Middle •••••••••.••••••••                             636,562
     Florida, Southern ••••.••••••.••••                           1,217,485


                                     81
     Georgia, Southern ..••..•.....•...                          328,351
     Hawaii ......        iii   •••••••••••••••••                611,286
     Illinois, Central &. Southern,
       &. Missouri, Eastern •.••••••.•••.                        412,900
     Kansas ..•...•.••••..••.••..••.                             383,746
     Kentucky, Eastern ...•.•..•.•...•                           297,412
     Louisiana, Eastern •..•.••.....••.                          431,145
     Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
      843,013
     Massachuset ts ..•.•••.•....••.•.                           336,368
     Minnesota .••••.•..•..•..••..•.                             276,043
     Missouri, Western •..••...•.•...•.                          580,684
     Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . .    fP   •••••••••
         527,157
     New Jersey • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
        790,012
     New Mexico . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . 
        356,040
     Ohio, Northern •.•.•.••.•......•.                           339,657
     Oklahoma, Northern, Eastern
      &. lrV estern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      421,992
     Oregon .•.•..•••.•....•.•••.••                              583,497
     Pennsylvania, Western •.•..•.•.•••                          349,003
     Puerto Rico . . . . . • . . . . . . • . • . . . . .         393,657
     South Carolina •.•.•...••.••.•••.                           337,775
     Tennessee, Middle •..•••••.••••.•                           373,434
     Tennessee, Western •.•.•.••.•.•..                           213,778
     Texas, Southern ..•..•.•.•.•••••.                           783,765
     Texas, Western •.•.•.•••.••..•••.                           788,659
     Virgin Islands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        475,689
     Washington, Western •.••.•.•••••.•                          497,633
     West Virginia, Southern •••••.••••••                        222,314

     TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
    $19,630,349

      Judge MacBride informed the Conference that the above
budgets for the fiscal year 1986 were based on projected
caseloads and that the Committee will entertain requests for
supplemental funding if workloads or other factors warrant
reconsideration of funding needs. Judge MacBride also stated
that the Court of Apppeals for the Third Circuit had approved
amendments to the Criminal Justice Act Plan for the Middle
District of Pennsylvania to provide for the establishment of a
Federal Public Defender Organization in that district and that
the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit had similarly
approved the establishment of a Federal Public Defender
Organization for the Eastern District of North Carolina.




                                      82 

     Upon the recommendation of the Committee the
Conference approved funding for the Federal Public Defender
Organizations in these two districts for the fiscal years 1985
and 1986 in the following amounts:

     Middle District of Pennsylvania:

            Fiscal year 1985 ••••••.••••••                $447,636
            Fiscal year 1986 .••••••.•.••.                $355,445

     Eastern District of North Carolina:

            Fiscal year 1985 •..••••••••••                $359,660
            Fiscal year 1986 •••••••••••••                $366,355

                 GRANT REQUESTS -
         COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

      The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved supplemental sustaining grants for the
fiscal year 1985 for the following Community Defender
Organizations:

     Federal Defender Program, Inc., 

     Georgia, Northern ••••••••••••••••                    $ 39,406 


     The Legal Aid Society of New York, 

     Federal Defender Services Unit, 

     New York, Eastern & Southern •••••••                    65,287 


            TOTAL . • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . .    $104,693 


      The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, also approved sustaining grants for the fiscal year
1986 for the six Community Defender Organizations as follows:

     Federal Defenders of San Diego, 

     Inc., California, Southern .••••.•••••               $1,328,910 


     Federal Defender Program, Inc., 

     Georgia, Northern ••••••••••••••••                     475,359 


     Federal Defender Program, Inc., 

     Illinois, Northern •••••••••••••••.•                    791,178 





                                  83
     Legal Aid &. Defender Assn. of
     Detroit~ Federal Defender
     Division, Michigan, Eastern •....••...           800,867

     The Legal Aid Society of New York,
     Federal Defender Services Unit,
     New York, Eastern &. Southern .••.•••           1,851,334

     Defender Assn. of Philadelphia,
     Federal Court Division,
     Pennsylvania, Eastern .••••••...•••.             619,634

            TOTAL .•.•..•••...•..••••              $5,867,282

     Judge MacBride stated that the Committee will consider
requests for supplemental sustaining grant funds if workload
increases or other factors warrant reconsideration of the
approved sustaining grants.

          ACQUISITION OF WORD PROCESSING OR 

            PERSON AL COMPUTER EQUIPMENT 


      It was the view of the Committee that, to the extent
warranted by workload, all Federal Defender Organizations
should be offered word processing or personal computer
capability by the close of the fiscal year 1986. In order to
avoid incurring the total cost for providing system-wide
capability in one fiscal year, the Committee recommended
that supplemental funding be provided in the fiscal year 1985
for those organizations with the most immediate need for the
equipment. The Conference thereupon approved supplemental
funding for the fiscal year 1985 for the defender organizations
listed below. Additionally, the defender organizations in the
Northern District of Georgia, the District of Maryland and the
Eastern and Southern Districts of New York will use the
supplemental funding authorized for the fiscal year 1985 to
acquire this equipment.

     California, Eastern •••.•••.••••••••            $ 8,500
     Florida, Northern •••••••••.•••••••               17,000
     Florida, Middle ••••••••.••.•••••••               17,000
     Kansas ••••••••.•.••.••.••..•..•                  17,000
     Kentucky, Eastern ••••..••••.••••                  8,500
     Missouri, Western •••••••••••••••••               17,000
     New Jersey •.•••••..•..•••••..••                   8,500
     Ohio, Northern ••.••••••••••••••••                 8,500


                             84
     Pennsylvania, Western .•.•.•..••••.                      8,500
     PUerto Ri co .•.•.••.••.•..•...•..                       8,500
     Tennessee, Western •.••...•••.•••.                       8,500

        TOTAL . . • . • . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . . .   $127,500

                             GUIDELINES

      The Committee submitted to the Conference the
following amendments to the Guidelines for the Administration
of the Criminal Justice Act which were approved by the
Conference:

     1.   An amendment to paragraph 2.22A to
     eliminate the requirement for counsel to file a
     memorandum detailing the services provided
     when the compensation claimed exceeds $750 and
     to make the filing of such a memorandum
     discretionary  with the court when the
     compensation claimed is less than the statutory
     maximum.

     2. The inclusion of a new chapter 5 to the
     Guidelines entitled "Miscellaneous Procedures"
     and a new subsection 5.01 setting forth the
     procedures for the release of information
     pertaining to Criminal Justice Act activities.

       COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS ­
              CONDITIONS OF GRANT

      The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved various changes in the "Community
Defender Organization Grant Terms and Conditionsll as
follows:

     1. An amendment to clauses 2 and 3 to require
     that grant funds, and grant-related income, be
     maintained in federally insured interest bearing
     accounts and to bar the commingling of grant
     funds and grant-related income with non-grant
     funds.

     2. An amendment to clause 8 to require that the
     certified public accountant selected by the
     grantee to perform the annual audit be approved


                                   85
by the Administrative Office and that the annual
audit be expanded to include an inventory of all
property acquired by the grantee with grant
funds when specifically requested by the
Administrative Office.

3. An am endm ent to clause II to change the
threshold amounts for Administrative Office
approval of the acquisition or disposition of
property and to require that the Administrative
Office be advised in advance of contractual
undertakings, such as insurance or leases, which
have significant potential long term effects or
cost implications.

4. An amendment to clause 12 to clarify the
procedures relating to the dissolution of the
grantee and the discretion of the Judicial
Conference to continue or renew grants and to
add provisions relating to the safeguarding of and
accounting for property and for indemnifying the
United States with respect to the grantee's debts.

5. An amendment to clause 14 to require that
reimbursement for official travel and SUbsistence
expenses generally not exceed the amounts
authorized for Federal employees, that the
grantee's policies for reimbursement of these
expenses be set forth in writing, and that the
records of expenditures for travel and
subsistence be maintained in a manner
acceptable to the Administrative Office.

6. An amendment to clause 15 to require that
written copies of personnel policies and the
terms and conditions of employment be provided
to the Administrative Office, that leave records
be maintained in a manner acceptable to the
Administrative     Office,    and    that     the
Administrative Office approve both the filling of
personnel vacancies and the compensation to be
paid to employees.

7. An amendment to clause 17 to preclude the
use of grant funds for any purpose except the
operations of the grantee.


                        86
     8.    An amendment to clause 21 to prohibit
     employees of the grantee from reCeIVing
     anything of value from or on behalf of grantee
     clients.
     9. An amendment to clause 23 to provide that
     failure to deliver representation and other
     services is a basis for reducing, suspending,
     disallowing or terminating payments to the
     grantee and to change the requirement for notice
     of intent to reduce, suspend or terminate
     payment from 30 to 10 days.

           CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT AMENDMENTS

      Judge MacBride informed the Conference of a bill, H.R.
5757, pending in the 98th Congress, which would establish a
comprehensive plan establishing uniform rates among the more
than 100 Federal "fee shifting" statutes which authorize
attorneys' fees in certain civil, judicial, and administrative
proceedings. The bill also provides for an increase in the rates
for attorney compensation under the Criminal Justice Act and
increases the maximum allowable payments. An identical bill,
S. 2802, 98th Congress, was introduced in the Senate.

      Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference authorized the transmission of the following views
to the Congress:

     The Judicial Conference strongly concurs with
     the assessment underlying H.R. 5757 that the
     existing levels of attorney compensation under
     the Criminal Justice Act are inadequate and
     shOUld be raised.        However, the Judicial
     Conference believes that the problem of the
     present inadequacy of compensation for counsel
     appointed to represent defendants in federal
     criminal cases should be addressed separately
     from the issue of "fee-shifting" in civil cases, and
     that a mere doubling of the Criminal Justice Act
     hourly rates and per case maximums would not be
     sufficient. The House passed bill, H.R. 4307, and
     an identical bill, S. 2420, introduced in the
     Senate by Senator Mathias, would provide a more
     flexible and durable remedy with respect to the
     Criminal Justice Act compensation issue. In


                              87
      addition, it would bring about other needed
      improvements      relating     to     effective
      implementation and operation, and thus more
      nearly ensure the fundamental purpose of the
      Criminal Justice Act. Accordingly, the Judicial
      Conference does not support the amendment to
      the Criminal Justice Act included in H.R. 5757
      and again endorses the enactment of H.R. 4307
      or S. 2420.        .

  COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION OF THE JURY SYSTEM

     Judge T. Emmet Clarie, <;::hairman of the Commitee on
the Operation of the Jury System, presented the report of the
Committee.

                   SUMMARY JURY TRIALS

      Judge Clarie informed the Conference that the
Committee had completed its analysis of the summary jury
trial and had concluded that it is a useful complement to other
judicial techniques aimed at promoting the settlement of
difficult cases. Although Judge Clarie emphasized that it is
not suitable for all cases, it is a valuable tool in many
situations. The Conference thereupon adopted the following
resolution:

      Resolved, that the Judicial Conference endorses
      the experimental use of summary jury trials as a
      potentially effective means of promoting the fair
      and equitable settlement of potentially lengthy
      civil jury cases.

                     JUROR UTILIZATION

      At its session in March, 1984 (Conf. Rept., p. 34) the
Conference established a national goal of limiting the
percentage of jurors not selected, serving or challenged on voir
dire or orientation day to 30 percent. Judge Clarie informed
the Conference that many district courts had made significant
progress toward attaining this goal and suggested a formula to
be used in calling jurors for civil and criminal trials. It was the
view of the Conference that a strict formula would not be
advisable. The Conference, however, commended the district




                               88 

courts for the improvements made in the increased use of
jurors called to serve and encouraged all district courts to
continue their efforts to improve the utilization of jurors.

 AD HOC COMMITTEE ON CAMERAS IN THE COURTROOM

      On March 8, 1983, 28 separate radio, TV, newspaper and
related organizations filed a petition with the Judicial
Conference requesting that Canon 3A(7) of the Code of
Conduct for United States Judges and Rule 35 of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure be amended to allow radio
broadcasting, televising, motion picture and still camera
coverage of Federal court proceedings, and further that the
Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure and the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure be amended to include provisions allowing
such coverage. The petition was assigned to the Committees
on Court Administration, Rules of Practice and Procedure, and
the Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct and the
Chairman of these committees each selected four members of
their committees to form the Ad Hoc Committee.

      The Committee filed a report with the Conference
recommending that the petition be denied and the Conference
approved. The report of the Committee was authorized to be
released and the Committee was discharged. In view of a
request pending in a district court of the Second Circuit to
televise certain proceedings in that court, Chief Judge Wilfred
Feinberg abstained from consideration of and voting on the
report of the Committee.

   AD HOC COMMITI'EE ON AMERICAN INNS OF COURT

     Judge Aldon J. Anderson, Chairman of the Ad Hoc
Committee on American Inns of Court, presented a brief
report on the activities of the Committee.

      Judge Anderson informed the Conference that the
concept of an American Inn of Court continues to spread. Two
additional Inns have been chartered in recent months and
numerous inquiries have been received from potential sponsors
of new Inns. He informed the Conference of plans to create a
permanent national organization separate from                 any
governmental entity to control the operation of the program.
The plan calls for the creation of a nonprofit corporation to be




                              89 

chartered under the District of Columbia Nonprofit
Corporation Act. Draft Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws
for the new organization have been prepared and will be
considered further at the Committee's next meeting.

                  MEMORIAL RESOLUTION

      The Conference, noting the death of Judge George L.
Hart, Jr., a former member of the Conference, adopted the
following resolution:

     With deep regret the Judicial Conference of the
     United States notes the death of George L. Hart,
     Jr. on May 21, 1984, after more than twenty years
     of active service and five years service as a
     senior judge of the United States District Court
     for the District of Columbia. Judge Hart served
     as a member of the Conference in 1974 and 1975
     while he was the Chief Judge of his court. He
     was well known to his colleagues and respected
     by them. He was a long-time member of the
     Conf erence's      Com mi ttee      on      Court
     Administration serving with distinction since
     1975.    Judge Hart gained the respect and
     admiration of judges throughout the nation with
     whom he was in daily contact in his position as
     Chairman of the Committee on Intercircuit
     Assignments to which he was appointed in 1977.
     He was the first Presiding Judge of the United
     States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court,
     serving a term of three years under an
     assignment from the Chief Justice.

     Judge Hart was widely recognized not only for
     his scholarly work as a judge but also for his
     outstanding    administrative   ability.      His
     assignments, both within his court and elsewhere,
     were always discharged competently and
     expeditiously.

     We, the members of the Judicial Conference,
     extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Louise
     and his son and ask that a copy of this resolution
     be sent to them.




                             90
                         ELECTIONS

       The Conference referred to the Executive Committee of
the Conference the task of selecting a bankruptcy judge to
serve as a member of the Board of the Federal Judicial Center
to fill the unexpired term of Bankruptcy Judge John J. Galgay,
recently deceased.

                PRETERMISSION OF TERMS 

               OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS 


      The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the
pretermission of terms of the United States courts of appeals
during the calendar year 1985 at the following locations: at
Asheville, North Carolina in the Fourth Circuit and at
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and Wichita, Kansas in the Tenth
Circuit.

            RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

      The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for
legislative or administrative action.




                                       Warren E. Burger

                                       Chief Justice
                                        of the United States

November 26, 1984




                             91 

                                                             INDEX 


                                                                                                                                 Page

Additional Judgeships. • . • • . • • • • • • • . • • . • • . • • •• • • • • • • . • •• •                                         53
Administrative Office, U. S. Courts
  Judicial Business of the Courts. • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • • • • • •                                                  46
     Report of the Director.. . • . .. .. • . . . .. . .. . . .. .. . .. . .. .. . . .. . .. .. .. .. ..                          45
American Bar Association; Model Rules
 of Disciplinary Enforcement. • • • • • . . • . • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • 51
Appointments and Payments, Criminal Justice Act... •• ••••• 80
Appropriations (see Budget)            .
Arbitration; Court-annexed..... • • ••• . •••••••. •••• ••• •••• 49
Attorney General:
   Financial disclosure nonfiling; Referral of ••• . • • • • • . • . • • 61
   Security; Task Force Report on ••.•••.•••..•....•••••. 48
Automation:
    oankruptcy .. .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. . .. .. . .            48
    Computerized docketing ••.•••••••••••.•.••••••••••••                                                                          48
    Federal Defender Organizations.......................                                                                         84
    Five-year plan.. .. . . .. . .. .. .. .. . .. .. . . .. . .. .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. . . .. .. .. .. . .. . . ..              47
   Probation Information Management System. • • • • • • • • • •. •                                                                48
Bankruptcy System:
   Arrangements for Bankruptcy Judges •••••••••••••••.••                                                                         71
   Committee on; Report of.. •• • • •• • •• . .•• • •• •• . ••••• . .•                                                           70
   Selection and Appointment of Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • • • ..                                                                70
Boards:
   Federal Judicial Center; Election to • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                     91
Budget:
   Appropria tians for F Y 1986 • . • • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .                                            60
   Committee on; Report of.............................                                                                          60
   Supplemental Appropriations for FY 1985...............                                                                        60
Budget Requests - Federal Public Defenders. • • • • . • • • • • • • • •                                                          81
Cameras in the Courtroom; Ad Hoc Committee on;
    Report of .. . .. .. .. . . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . . . .. . . .. .. . .. .. . ..    89
Cases Cited:
   Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Chadha.......                                                                       66
   Western Pacific Railroad Corp. v.
     Western Pacific Railroad Co, ••••••.•••.••••••••••••                                                                        55
Clerks of Court Service as Part-time Magistrate;
        Aggreg a te salary                  0 f .......................................................... "."              ..   71 

Codes of Conduct:
   Activities of the Committee •••••••••••••.••••••••••••                                                                        63
   Advisory Committee on; Report of ••••••••••••••••••••                                                                         63
   Cameras in -the Courtroom •.••••••••••••.•••••.••••••                                                                         89
    Judicial Conduct .................................................................... ..                                     63
    La w Clerks.. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. • .. . . . . .. .. . .. • . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. • .. .. .. .. .. .. • .. •      64

                                                                93
Community Defender Organizations:
     Conditions of Grant ....................................                                                            85
     Grant Requests ...........................                                 It   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   83
Court Adm inistra tion:
  Arbitration; Court-annexed. • • . • • • • • • • . • • • • • . • • . • • • • •.                                         49
    Automation... .. . . . . .... ..... . . . . .. .. .. ...... . .. .. .                                                47
    Committee on; Report of... ••• •• . • ••• •.••• •. . •.• •• • ••                                                     47
    Court Reporters ....................................                                                                 59
    Disciplinary Enforcement; Uniform Rules of ••.•••••••••                                                              51
    Diversity of Citizenship Jurisdiction. • • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • • •                                           55
    En Bane Hearings ..•.•...........•............•.•••.                                                                 55
   Interstate Commerce. • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • . • • •• • • • •• 57
   Judgeships; Additional.. • . .. .. • • . .. . • • . • .. . .. ... • • • • • 53
   Local Rules; Distribution of ••••••.••••••••••••••.•••• 50
   Matters under Submission or Advisement; Report of. •• • •• 51
   Multidistrict Litigation .............................. 56
   Nonapprot>ria ted Funds. • • • . • • • • • • . • . . • . • . . . . • • . • • . • • • 50
   Retirement Coverage; Staff Attorneys. • • . •. •. ••• ••• • •• 57
   Retirement of Territorial Judges. . • • . • • • • • • • • • • . . • . • • • 50
   Secretaries to Judges and Magistrates. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 58
   Securi ty; Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
   Places of Holding Court. • • • . • • • • • • • • . • • . • • . • . . • . • • • • • 51
Court Reporters ••.••..•.•.•••.•.•••••••.••••.•••••.••• 59
Courts of Appeals; Pretermission of Terms .•.•..•••••••••• 91
Criminal Justice Act:
   Amendments to the Act. •• • •. •• .•• ••• • • ••••.• • •• • •. •• 87
   Appointments and Payments.. ••• • • • • •• • ••••• ••• •••• • • 80
   Budget Requests, Federal Public Defenders. • • • • • . • • •• • • 81
   Committee on; Report of............................. 80
   Community Defender Organizations:
       Conditions of Grant. ........ ........... .......... . . ... ...... ...... . ..........                           85
       Grant Requests .................................................................                                  83
    Guidelines ........................................ ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    85
     Word Processing or Personal Computers;
       Acquisition of ................•.............. "". .. . • •                                                       84
Disciplinary Enforcement; Uniform Rules of • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                 51
Diversity of Citizenship. • . • • • . • • • • • • • • • . . • . . • . • • • • • • • • • •                                55
Election ..............................................                                                                  91
En Banc Hearings .......................................                                                                 55
Equal Employment Opportunity.. ••••• ••••••• ••• ••••••• ••                                                              46
Ethics (see JUdicial Ethics)
Executive Committee Actions:
   Bankruptcy Judges; Selection and Appointment. •• • •••••                                                              70
    Bankruptcy Rules ....................................                                                                66
    Elections. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       91
Federal JUdicial Center:
    Board; Election to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                              .9 1

                                                   94
Federal Public Defenders:
     Budget Requests. • • • . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . • . . .      81
   Word Processing and Personal Computers. • • • • • • . • • • • • . •                           84
Fee Schedule; Sale of Local Rules. . . • . • • • • • • • • . • • . • . • • . • •                 50
Financial Disclosure (see Judicial Ethics)
Funds; Nonappropriated . . • • • • . . • . • • . • . • . . . . • • • . • . . . .• • . .          50
Grant Requests - Community Defender Organizations.. • . • • •                                    83
Guidelines:
     Cri minal Justice Act ................................                                      85
    Nonappropriated Funds. ••• ••• . • .•••• • .•••••.•••• .• •••                                50
Hart, George L. Jr.; Memorial Resolution........ •• ••• .••••                                    90
Inns of Court:
    Ad Hoc Committee on; Report of. • • . • • • • . . . • . • • • • • • • • •                    89
lntercircuit Assignments:
    Committee on; Heport of. • . . • • • • • • . . . • • . • • • • • • • • . • • • •             64
Interstate Commerce. ••• • •. •• ••• ••. . ••• . .•. •••• •• •••. . .                            57
Judges:
    Bankruptcy:
      Appointment and Selection of •••••.•••.•••.••••••.••                                       70
        Arrangements for ..................................                                      71
   Code of Conduct for. • • • • • • • . • • • • • . • . . • • • • . • • • • • . • • • •          63
   Retirement of Territorial .•.•••••.••••..•.••••••••••.                                        50
   Secretaries to deceased ••••••.•..••••..••.•.••••••••.                                        58
Judgeships; Additional. . .• ••••••••• •••••.. •••••• .• ••••••                                  53
JUdicial Branch:
   Committee on; Report of.... • ••• . •• ••. . ••. ••• •• .• ••• •                              47
JUdicial Business of the Courts. • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • . • • . . • • • • •             46
JUdicial Conference of the U.S.
     Call of.............................................                                        43
   Release of Action. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        91
Judicial Councils:
   Locations of Magistrates. . ••• ••• . . .••••••••••••• •• .••                                 72
   Selection and Appointment of Bankruptcy Judges. • ••••• •                                     70
JUdicial Ethics:
   Activities of the Committee.. . . • . •. • .• •. • ••.•• ••• . .• •                           61
   Committee on; Report of. • • • • • . • .. . • • . . • . • . • • • • • • • • • • •             61
   Disposition of Disclosure Reports. . •• . ••• •••••• •• •• •• ••                              62
   Ethics in Government Act Amendments.. ••• ••• .• ••••••                                       62
   Financial Disclosure Reports; Forms
     and Instructions. '. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      61
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation;
     Report of ...•...••.•.•.••..•.••••..•.••...•.•••. ., • •                                    47
Juror Utilization. .... .... ....................... ...... ..                                   88
Jury System:
   Committee on; Heport of. • • • • • • . • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •              88
    Juror Utilization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .   88
    Summary Jury Trials.......... . ........ ...... ...... .....                                 88

                                                 95
Law Clerks; Code of Conduct for. • • • • . . .• • • . . • . • . • • . . . . . .                 64
Legisla tion:
   Additional Judgeships. . • • • • • . . . . . . • . . . . . • • • . . . • • • • • . •         53
     Arbitration ................................ ., . . . . . . . .                            49
     Criminal Justice Act Amendments. .. . . • . .• •. •• • ••• • • ••                          87
     En Bane Hearings •...••.•..••.••...•.•.••.•.•.....••                                       55
     Ethics in Government Act ..••.•••.••••••.•.•". •• ••• •••                                  62
     Interstate Commerce.. . . ... .. ....... .. . .. ........ . . .                            57
     Multidistrict Litigation •.••••.•..•••••••••••.••••••••                                    56
     Places of Holding Court. • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • •         51
     Retirement of Territorial Judges. . • • ••• . . . • • • •• •• •• • • •                     50
     Rules Enabling Acts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      66
    Sentencing Reform Legislation.. •• . . ••• ••• .. • •. •• •• . ••                           69
Local Rules of Court ...................................                                        67
Magistrate System:
  Committee on; Report of. . • . • . . . • . . . . . . . • . . • • . •. • . . • •               71
  Locations of Magistrates. . ••• •• . . • . . • • . .. . . .• .• .. •• • •                     72
  Magistrates Posi tions; Changes in •...•••.......•••.•••                                      72
    Salaries of Part-time. . . . . . . ...... ... . .. .. . .... .. . . . .                     71
Magistrates; Secretaries to deceased. • • . . . • • • • • . . . • . . . • . • •                 58
Marshals, United States. . • • • • • • • . . . . • • • • • • • • • . . . • • • • • • • •        49
Matters under Submission or Advisement; Report of. . . . • . . . .                              51
Media Petition (see Cameras in the Courtroom)
Memorial Resolution, Honorable George L. Hart, Jr. ••••••••                                     90
Multidistrict Litigation:
   Consolidating cases for trial. • • • • • . • . • • • • . • . • • • • . • . • • •             56
   Judicial Panel on; Report of .......... ........ .... .• ••                                  47
Personal Computers; Acquisition of. . . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • .                 84
Photographs (see Cameras in the Courtroom)
Places of Holding Court. • • • • • . • • • • • . . • • • . • • • • • • . • . • • • • • •        51
Pretermission of Terms, Courts of Appeals. • • • . • • • • • • • ••• •                          91
Pretrial Services Officers. • . • • • . • • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • •         68
Probation System:
   Committee on; Report of.............................                                         67
   Probation and Pretrial Services Officers. . . . . . . . . • . • •• ..                        68
   Sentencing Institutes. • • •• . •• • • •••.• •. .•• ••• ••••• •• • •                         67
   Sentencing Reform Legislation. • • . • . •• • • • • • • • • • •• . • • • •                   69
Quadrennial Commission on Salaries. . . • . • • • • • • • . • • • . • • • • •                   47
Release of Conference Action ••••.•••••••••••••••••••.••                                        91
Retirement:
    Staff Attorneys. ... . . . . ...... ... . .. ..... .. ...... ....                           57
    Terr i torisl Judges • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • . • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • ••   50




                                                96 

Rules:
   Additional Amendments.                                            66
   Admiralty •.•....•.••      ............................ .         64
   Appellate ••.....••••                                             66
   Bankruptcy ••••••.•••                                             65
   Civil ... "........... .                                          64
   Criminal ................................. "......... .           65
   Disciplinary Enforcement •••••••••••••••••••••••••••.             51
   Local:
     Distribution of ................................... .           50 

     En Bane Hearings ................................... .          56 

     Study of ......................................... .            67 

   Practice and Procedure
      Com mittee on, Report of ••••.••••••••••••••••.•.•••           64
      Reporter for ••..•.                                            67
    Rules Enabling Acts.                                             66
Salaries:
    lVlagistrates; Part-time •••••.•.••.•.•.•••••.•.•.••.••.         71
   Quadrennial Commission on                                         47
Secretaries.                                                         58
Security ...                                                         48
Sentencing:
   Appellate Review of •.•••••••••••••••••                           69
   Insti tutes ............ "............... .                       67
   Reform Legislation ........................ .                     69
Staff Attorneys; Retirement Coverage of•••••                         57
Summary Jury Trials ................................... .            88
Utilization of Jurors ................................... .          88
Word Processing; Acquisition of .••.•••••••••••••••••.••••           84




                                97
                                                     GPO 1111-0117
