           REPORT 

              of the
   PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 

      UNITED STATES 



        September 17-18, 1985




          Washington, D. C.
                1985
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 



        L. Ralph Mecham 

            Director 

           REPORT 

              of the
    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

JUDICIAL COl\TFERENCE OF THE 

       UNITED STATES 


         September 17-18, 1985




           Washington, D. C.
                 1985
  THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331
§ 331. JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED SnTES

   The alief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of each
judicial circuit. and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at such
time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such confer­
ence which shall be known as the Judicial Conference of the United States, Special ses­
sions ofthe conference may be called by the Oiief Justice at such times and places as he
may designate.
  The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the cir­
cuit and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held
pursuant to sec:tion 333 of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for
three sUCX'eSSive years. except that in the ,ear f!>lIowing the enactment of this amended
section the judges in the first. fourth. snenth. and tenth circuits shall choose a district
judge to sem: for one ,ear. the judges in the second. fifth. and eighth circuits shall
choose a district judge to serve for t1IO years and the judges in the third. sinh. ninth. and
District of Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge to serve for three years.
   If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit
is unable to attend. the Oiief Justice may summon any other circuit or district judge from
SllCh circuit_ Every judge summoned shall attend and. unless excused by the Oiief Justice,
shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to the needs of his
circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of which the administration of justice in
the courts of the United States may be improved.
   The Conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from circuits
or districts where necessary. It shall also submit suggestions and recommendations to the
various courts to promote uniformity of management procedures and the expeditious con­
dl1Ct of court business. The Conference is authorized to exercise the authority provided in
section 372(c) of this title as the Coaf_ce. or throush a standing committee_ If the
Coaference elects to establish a standing committee. it shall be appointed by the Oiief
Justice and all petitiolls for review shall be reviewed by thlt committee. The Conference
or the standing committee may bold hearings, take sworD testimony. issue subpoenas and
subpoenas dllCes tecum. and make necessary and appropriate orders in the exercise of its
authority_ Subpoenas and subpoenas d _ tecum shall be issued by the clerk of the Su­
preme Court or by the clerk of any court of appeals. It the diRlCtion of the Oiil!'f Justice
or his designee and under the real of the court. and shall be sened in the manner pro­
vided in rule 4S(c) of the Federal Rules of CIvil' Procedure for subpoenas and subpoenas
duces tecum issued on behalf of the United States or an officer or any agency thereof.
The Coaference may also prescribe and modify rules for the exercise of the authority pro­
vided in section 372(c) of this title. All judicial officers and employees of the United
States shall promptly cury into effect all orders of the Judicial Conference or the stand­
iIIg committee established pursuant to ibis sec:tion.

   The Coaference shall also c:a.rry 08 a contiDuons study of the operation and effect of the
,eneral rules of practice and procedure DOW or hereafter in use as prescribed by the Su­
preme Court for die other courts of the United States pursuant to la•. Such changes in
and rodditiolls to those rules u 'the Coaference may deem desirable to promote simplicity
in procedure, fainless in admillistratioG. the jut determination of litigation. and the elim·
illation of a:ajustifiable expense and delay shall be recommended by the Conference from
time to time to the Supreme Court for its consideration and adoption. modification or reo
jection. in accordance with la•.
  The Attorney General shall. upon request of the Oiief Justice. report to SllCh conference
on matters rdating to the business of the sneral courts of the United States. with partic­
ular reference to cues to which the Ualted States is a party.
  The Oiief Justice shall submit to Coagress an annual report of the proceedings of the
Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.


                                             iv
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS 


                REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

            JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES 


                                September 17-18, 1985 



                                                                                       Page

Call of the Conference • • • . • • • . • • • • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • ••       39 

Report of the Director of the Administrative 

    Office of the United States Courts ••.•••.•.•••.•••••••                                 42 

       Judicial Business of the Courts •• • . • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • ••              42 

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. . . • • • • . • • • . • . • • • ••              43 

Committee on the Judicial Branch. • • • • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • ••              43 

    Actual Travel Expenses for Judges. • • • . • . • • • • . • • . . • • . ••               43 

    Commuting Expenses of Judges. • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • • • • . • ••                44 

    Receipt of Military Retired Pay for Judges •••••••.•.••••                               44 

Committee on Court Administration •••••••••. • • • • • • . • • • .•                         44 

    Automation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..     45 

    Court Security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..     45 

    Frivolous Litigation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      46 

    Records Disposition Program and Schedules. • • • • • • • • • • • •.                     46 

    Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges. • • . • • • • • • • • . ••                  46 

    Senior District Judge Chambers. . . • • . . • • • • . . . • • . . • • • ••              47 

     Court Reporters. • . • . . . • . • . • • • . . . • • . . . • • • . . . • . . . .. 47 

     Career Law Clerks . . . • • . . • . . . . . • . • . . . . . ~ . . • . . . . • •. 48 

    Qualification Standards for Secretaries •••. • • . • • • . • • . • ..                   48 

    Diversity in Wrongful Death Cases. . • • . • • • • • • . . • • • . • • ••               49 

    Registration of Foreign Judgments •..••••••.•••.•••.•.                                  50 

    Removal Jurisdiction •.••••••••.••••• . . • • . . • • . . • . ••                        50 

    JUdicial Review of Federal Maritime Orders. • . • • • . • • . • • ..                    51 

    Product Liability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..      52 

    State Court Liaison in 

       Federal Rulemaking Process • • . . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • ••              52 

    Report of Matters Held Under Advisement. . • • . . • • . • • . • ••                     52 

    Arbitration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53 

Committee on the Budget. • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • . • • • • . • • ••           53 

    Supplemental Appropriations for the 

       Fiscal Year 1986 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..      53 

    Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1987 • . • • • • • • • • • • . • • ..                53 

    Court Security Budget Estimates. • • • • • • • . • • • . • • • • • • . ••               54 

Judicial Ethics Committee •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                     55 

    Activities of the Committee. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••             55 

    Reporting Form and Instructions • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••              55 

                                       v

Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                  55 

   Activities of the Committee. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..             55 

   Disqualification in Protracted Litigation .......... • . . . ..                         56 

   Code of Conduct for Staff Attorneys. . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . ..                 56 

   Applicability of Codes of Conduct. . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . ..               57 

   Form for Notice of Disqualification. . . . • . . . . . . . . • • . • . •.               57 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments. . . . . . • . • . . • . . . . . • •.                57 

Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure ...••....•....                                58 

   Appellate Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..      58 

     Rules Enabling Acts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 58 

Committee on the Administration 

   of the Probation System .. . . . • . • . . • • . • . • . • . . • . • . . . .. 59 

      Sentencing Institutes • ...••...•.•..•.•.••.•....•. 60 

      Comprehensive Crime Control Act 

          of 1984. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 60 

        Criminal Fine Collection. • • . • . . • • • • . . . • . • • . • . . . . •. 61 

        Drug Aftercare • . • . • . . • . . . . • . . . . . . • . . • • • . . . . • . . 62 

      Carrying of Firearms .••....••••.•••.••••.•...•..                                    64 

Committee of the Administration 

   of the Bankruptcy System . . • . . . • • • • • . • . • • . • . • . • • • • ..           64 

      Bankruptcy Judgeship Recommendations •. . • • • • • • . • . .•                       64 

      Interi m Model Local Rule . • . • • . . . . • . • . • • . • • • . • . . •.           65 

Committee on the Administration 

   of the Federal Magistrates System. • . . • • • • . • • • • . • . . • • •.                66 

      Magistrates 70 Years of Age or Older ....•••••••...••                                 66 

      Use of Legal Assistants in Social 

          Securi ty Cases . . • . . • • • . . . • • • • . . . • . . • • • . . . . . . .• 67 

     Changes in Magistrate Positions ....•.•.•••...•...•.                                   67 

Committee to Implement the 

   Criminal Justice Act •.•.•.••.•.••...••.•.•••..••••                                      75 

     Appointments and Payments. . • . . . • • . • . • • • • . • . • . . ..                  75 

     Budget Requests - Federal 

       Public Defenders •••...••.•.••.•.••••.••...••••                                      76 

     Grant Requests - Community 

       Defender Organizations .•.•...••...••••...•...••                                     78 

      Guidelines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..     79 

Committee on the Administration of the
     Cri minal Law. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 80 

        Habeas Corpus • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . • • . . • • • . • . .. 80 

        Computer Fraud. . • . . . . • . . . . • . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . .. 81 

      Death Penalty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       81 

      Exclusionary Rule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..         82 

Committee on the Operation of the
   Jury System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..      83 

      Grand Jury Orientation Film • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • ••              83 

      Amendments to the Jury Selection 

       and Service Act • • . • • • • . • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • . . • • . ..         83 

      Amendments to Juror Qualification
       Questionnaire. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..        84 


                                       vi
Implementation Committee on Admission of 

    Attorneys to Federal Practice. . . • . • • . . . • • • • • • . • . . . . ••        84 

Committee on Pacific Territories •••.••••••••. • • • . • • • • • •.                    85 

Standing Committee to Review Circuit              .

    Council Conduct and Disability Orders. . • . . • • • • • • • . • • . ..            86 

Ad Hoc Committee on American Inns of Court. • . • • . . . . . . • • •.                 86 

Ad Hoc Committee on Electronic Sound Recording. • • . • • . . • . .•                   87 

Chief Judge of Court of International Trade 

    As Member of the JUdicial Conference. • . • • . . • • • • • • • • . ••             87 

Resolutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .«   ••   « ••••••••« • • • • • • • ••   87 

Pretermission of Terms. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   89 

Release of Conference Action. • • . . • . . . . • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • •.       89 





                                    vii
                 REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

                 OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 

                     OF THB UNITED STATES 


                      September 11-18, 1985 



      The Judicial Conference of the United States convened
on September 17, 1985, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice
of the United States, issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and continUed
in session on September 18. The Chief Justice presided and the
following members of the Conference were present:

First Circuit:

     Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
     Chief Judge Juan M. Perez-Gimenez, District of
       Puerto Rico

Second Circuit:

     Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg.
     Chief Judge Jack B. Weinstein, Eastern District of
       New York

Third Circuit:
     Judge James Hunter, III. 

     Chief Judge Murray M. Schwartz, District of Delaware 

Fourth Circuit:

     Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
     Chief Judge Frank A. Kaufman, District of Maryland

Fifth Circuit:

     Chief Judge Charles Clark
     Judge Adrian G. Duplantier, Eastern District of Louisiana


* Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge
Ruggero J. Aldisert, who was unable to attend.




                              39
Sixth Circuit:

     Chief Judge Pierce Lively
     Chief Judge Robert M. McRae, Jr., Eastern District
       of Tennessee

Seventh Circuit:

     Chief Judge Walter J. Cummings
     Chief Judge Frank J. McGarr, Northern District
       of lllinois

Eighth Circuit:

     Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
     Chief Judge John F. Nangle, Eastern District of Missouri

Ninth Circuit:

     Chief Judge James R. Browning
     Chief Judge Robert J. McNichols, Eastern District
       of Washington

Tenth Circuit:
      Chief Judge William J. Holloway
      Chief Judge Sherman G. Finesilver, District of Colorado

Eleventh Circuit:

      Chief Judge John C. Godbold
      Chief Judge James Lawrence King, Southern District
        of Florida

District of Columbia Circuit:

      Chief Judge Spottswood Robinson, III
      Chief Judge Aubrey Robinson, District of Columbia

Federal Circuit:

      Chief Judge Howard T. Markey




                                40
      Circuit Judges Richard A. Arnold, Frank M. Coffin, Otto
R. Skopil, Jr., and Gerald B. Tjoflat; Senior Circuit Judge John
D. Butzner, Jr.; Senior District Judges Aldon J. Anderson, T.
Emmet Clarie, Edward T. Gignoux, Elmo B. Hunter, and
Thomas J. MacBride; and District Judges William B. Enright,
Robert E. DeMascio, and John H. Pratt attended all or some
sessions of the Conference.
      The Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on
Courts, Civil Liberties, and the Administration of Justice,
Honorable Robert W. Kastenmeier, and the Chief Counsel of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, Dennis W. Shedd, attended
the Conference briefly and spoke on matters pending in the
Congress of interest to the judiciary.

      The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable
Edwin Meese 3rd, and the Acting Solicitor General, Honorable
Charles Fried, addressed the Conference briefly on matters of
mutual interest to the Department of Justice and the
Conference.
       L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative
Office of the United States Courts; James E. Macklin, Jr.,
Executive Assistant Director; Karen K. Siegel, Attorney
Advisor to the Executive Assistant Director; William J. Weller,
Legislative Affairs Officer; Daniel R. Cavan, Deputy
Legislative Affairs Officer; Wil.!iam R. Burchill, Jr., General
Counsel; Deborah H. Kirk, Inspector General; Professor A. Leo
Levin, Director of the Federal Judicial Center and Charles W.
Nihan, Deputy Director, attended the sessions of the
Conference. Douglas D. McFarland, Deputy Administrative
Assistant to the Chief Justice, also attended the sessions of
the Conference.
       Senator Giovanni Coco of Italy attended the Conference
briefly on the first day.
       The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, A. Leo
Levin, presented a report on the activities of the Center.




                             41 

                REPORT OF THE DmECTOR 

             OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFFICE 

              OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 


       The Chief Justice introduced to the Conference the new
Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, L. Ralph Mecham, who submitted the Annual Report of
the Director for the year ended June 30,1985. The Conference
authorized the Director to release the Annual Report
immediately in preliminary form and to revise and supplement
the final printed edition.

            JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

       Mr. Mecham reported that during the year ended June
30, 1985, there were 2,472 appeals filed in the United States
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. During the year, the
court disposed of 1,472 appeals, and 1,690 appeals were pending
as of June 30, 1985. In the other twelve courts of appeals,
there were 33,360 appeals filed, an increase of six percent over
the 31,490 appeals filed the previous year. The courts of
appeals disposed of 31,387 appeals, one percent more than the
number disposed of the previous year, but 1,973 fewer appeals
than the number filed. As a result, the number of appeals
pending in the courts of appeals on June 30, 1985 increased nine
percent to 24,758.

       In the United States district courts, there were 273,670
civil cases docketed during the year, a five percent increase
over the previous year and almost twice the number of civil
cases filed in 1978. There were 269,848 civil cases terminated,
an increase of 11 percent over the previous year, but 3,822
fewer cases than the number filed. On June 30, 1985, the
number of civil cases pending increased by almost two percent
to a record 254,114 cases.

        Criminal cases filed in the district courts in 1985 rose to
39,500, an increase of seven percent over 1984. There were
37,139 criminal cases terminated, five percent more than the
previous year, but 2,361 fewer than the number filed. As a
result, the number of criminal cases pending on the dockets of
the district courts increased to 22,299, an increase of 12
percent.




                               42 

       During the year ended June 30, 1985, there were 364,536
bankruptcy petitions filed in the district courts, an increase of
six percent from the previous year. There were 333,158
petitions terminated and the pending caseload on June 30, 1985
increased to a record 608,945 bankruptcy petitions.
       Mr. Mecham also reported that on September 16, 1985,
there were 20 vacancies among the 168 judgeship positions
authorized for the United States courts of appeals, 66
vacancies among the 575 authorized judgeship positions in the
United States district courts, and one vacancy on the United
States Court of International Trade.

                   JUDICIAL PANEL ON 

                 MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION 


       A written statement filed with the Conference by the
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation indicated that during
the year ended June 30, 1985, the Panel had acted on 1,215 civil
actions pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407. Of that number, 687 were
centralized for consolidated pretrial proceedings with 528
actions already pending in the various transferee districts at
the time of transfer. The Panel denied transfer of 1,800
actions.

       Since its creation in 1968, the Panel has transferred
14,489 civil actions for centralized pretrial proceedings in
carrying out its statutory responsibilities. As of June 30, 1985,
12,482 cases have been remanded for trial, reassigned within
the transferee district, or terminated in the transferee court.
          COMMrITEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

       Judge Frank M. Coffin, Chairman of the Committee on
the Judicial Branch, presented the report of the Committee.
At the Committee's request, the Conference authorized the
release and dissemination of the report to all federal judges.

         ACTUAL TRAVEL EXPENSES FOR JUDGES

       H.R. 2561, 99th Congress, would amend 28 U.S.C. 456(a)
to provide for the payment to justices and judges of their
actual and necessary expenses of subsistence while traveling on
official business, subject to a reasonable ceiling established by



                              43
the Judicial Conference. Upon the recommendation of the
Committee, the Conference recommended enactment of the
bill.
            COMMUTING EXPENSES OF JUDGES
       H.R. 2187, 99th Congress, would authorize payment of
commuting expenses between residences and official duty
stations for judges who reside not more than 300 miles from
their official duty stations. Judge Coffin reported that the
Committee, noting that commuting expenses of federal
officials have traditionally been considered as inherently
personal expenses, could not support singling out the judiciary
for preferential treatment in this manner. The Conference
thereupon recommended against enactment of the bill.
    RECEIPT OF MILITARY RETIRED PAY FOR JUDGES
        Since federal judges appointed to hold office during
good behavior continue to occupy the office in the legal sense
after retirement from regular active service under 28 U.S.C.
371(b), 5 U.S.C. 5532(c) precludes senior judges from receiving
any military retired pay to which they would otherwise be
entitled. The Committee pointed out that section 5532 is
inconsistent with 5 U.S.C. 8344(f) (which requires the
suspension of civil service retirement annuities to active
judges but authorizes their resumption upon judicial
retirement), and could provide an incentive for retirement
from the judicial office under 28 U.S.C. 371(a) rather than to
senior status under 371(b), thereby depriving the judiciary of
the invaluable services of senior judges.
       The     Conference       approved     the     Committee's
recommendation that 5 U.S.C. 5532(c) should be amended to
permit federal judges in senior status pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
371(b) to draw military retired pay to which they would be
entitled on the basis of regular or reserve military service.

         COMMITl'EB ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

      Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration, presented the report of the Committee.




                              44 

                        AUTOMATION 

      Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Subcommittee on Judicial Improvements had received a status
report on the 1985 revision of the Five-Year Plan for
automation in the United States courts and, at its next meeting
in December, 1985, will consider the 1986 update of the Plan.
The next version of the Five-Year Plan will include plans for
the judiciary in the following areas: office automation,
telecommunications, computer assisted legal research (CALR),
personnel for automation support, and training.
       In September, 1983 (Conf. Rept., p. 53), the Judicial
Conference assigned to the Subcommittee on Judicial
Improvements, on an experimental basis, the responsibility for
oversight of automation, and requested a recommendation
within two years as to whether the special oversight function
should continue. Upon the recommendation of the Committee,
the Conference approved the continued oversight of
automation by the Committee on Court Administration and its
Subcommittee on Judicial Improvements through September,
1987.

                      COURT SECURITY
        In 1982, the Attorney General's Task Force on Court
Security developed, and the Conference adopted (March 1982
session, Conf. Rept., p. 49; September 1984 session, Conf.
Rept., pp. 48-49), criteria for the presence of a deputy U.S.
marshal in court for security purposes based on four levels of
anticipated risk. While a marshal would not be present at low
risk proceedings, higher risk levels could dictate the presence
of one or more marshals. Implementation of these criteria
virtually eliminated the presence of marshals during civil
trials.
       In response to expressions of concern by district judges,
the United States Marshals Service initiated a pilot project in
three judicial districts to test the use of contract court
security officers in low risk proceedings.        When judicial
officers in the pilot districts were asked whether court
security officers should continue to provide a security presence
in low risk proceedings in their courts, 98 percent of those
responding favored continuation of the practice.



                              45
      Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved the following policy:

            Subject to the policy approval of the
      Court Security Committee, at the request of
      a judicial officer, court security officers may
      be used as a security presence in low-risk
      courtroom proceedings which do not warrant
      the presence of a deputy U.S. marshal under
      the risk criteria established by the Attorney
      General's Task Force on Court Security,
      where such assignments will not detract from
      judicial area or perimeter security.

            This policy does not authorize the
      addition of extra court security officers
      beyond the number needed for courthouse
      security.

                  FRIVOLOUS LITIGATION

       At its session in September, 1983 (Conf. Rept., p. 56),
the Conference approved the concept of the exhaustion of
state administrative remedies in cases brought under 42 U.S.C.
1983 and tasked the Committee with developing appropriate
legislative language for further consideration by the
Conference. Draft legislation prepared by the Subcommittee
on Judicial Improvements was returned to the Committee for
an assessment of the draft's impact on the caseload of the
federal courts.
   RECORDS DISPOSITION PROGRAM AND SCHEDULES

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved a revised records disposition program and
revised schedules for the disposition of federal court records.

   TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

       The Administrative Office had proposed that all judicial
officers, including judges of the United States Claims Court,
bankruptcy judges, and United States magistrates, be included
within the Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges as
approved by the Conference in September, 1980 (Conf. Rept.,
p. 67), and amended in March, 1985 (Conf. Rept., p. 8). The
Committee supported the concept in principle and requested an


                             46
opinion on the legality of the proposal. Judge Hunter informed
the Conference that the General Counsel had concluded that
there was no legal impediment to including these judicial
officers within the travel regulations applicable to justices and
judges (except that Claims Court judges, bankruptcy judges and
magistrates may not receive actual expenses of sUbsistence for
extended travel assignments, and bankruptcy judges and
magistrates may not recover relocation expenses upon their
initial appointment in the manner of Presidential appointees),
and that the Bankruptcy and Magistrates Committees of the
Conference supported their inclusion as a matter of policy,
provided that clerks of court and deputy clerks of court who
are authorized to perform magistrate duties are not included.
The Conference, upon the recommendation of the Committees,
accordingly approved an amendment to the judges' travel
regulations to include Claims Court judges, bankruptcy judges,
and magistrates, with the exception of clerk-magistrates and
those subject matter exceptions noted above.

            SENIOR DISTRICT JUDGE CHAMBERS

       In March, 1984 (Conf. Rept., p. 8), the Conference
adopted the United States Courts Design Guide. The Guide
sets the size of an active district judge's suite at up to 1,600
square feet and the size of a senior district judge's suite at up
to 1,200 square feet, although a suite of up to 1,600 square feet
may be provided if proper justification is presented. The
Administrative Office advised the Committee that excessive
relocation is occurring as the result of this slight difference in
size.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved an amendment to the Guide to
standardize the size of new chambers for both active and
senior district judges at up to 1,600 square feet. The modest
increased rental costs resulting from larger suites for senior
judges would be offset by the avoidance of demolition and
construction costs should the space ultimately need to be
converted to active judge use.

                     COURT REPORTERS

       Judge Hunter reported that 32 district courts had
requested 51 reporters in addition to the complement
authorized by the ratio of one reporter per active judge. Upon
the recommendation of the Committee, the Conference


                               47
approved 31 additional positions, representing a reduction of
five from the number of full-time reporters presently
authorized, with any reduction of personnel to be accomplished
through attrition only. The positions were approved contingent
upon the courts! adoption of appropriate management
techniques, including full utilization of each reporter and a
substantially equal distribution of the in-court/chambers
workload, through sharing of resources wherever possible.

       The Conference did not address the question of whether
electronic court recorder operators should be considered
equivalent to court reporters in determining a court!s total
reporting needs.

                    CAREER LAW CLERKS

       In September, 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 49), the Conference
authorized the promotion of career law clerks from JSP-12 to
JSP-13 after five years of experience as a law clerk to a
federal judge. The Committee concluded that four years as a
personal law clerk was sufficient to indicate a career
commitment and recommended that the Conference's
resolution of September, 1978 be amended to permit promotion
of career law clerks to JSP-13 after four years of experience
(including three at the JSP-12 level) as a law clerk to a federal
judge. The Conference agreed to the amendment.

     QUALIFICATION STANDARDS FOR SECRETARIES

      In reviewing the qualification standards for secretaries
under the Judiciary Salary Plan, the Administrative Office
discovered a number of inconsistencies.

       In order to qualify for a position as secretar~ to a
federal judge (JSP-ll) or assistant secretary to a federal judge
(JSP-lO), four years of service "to a federal judg,U are
required, including three years at the JSP-lO or JSP-9 level,
respectively; on the other hand, secretaries to United States
magistrates and circuit executives need spend only one year at
the grade JSP-9 level to qualify for grade JSP-lO. Moreover,
although experience as secretary to a bankruptcy judge
qualifies as service lIto a federal judge!!, secretarial experience
on the staff of a United States magistrate or other court
official does not so qualify.




                               48
       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved amendments to the Judiciary Salary Plan
(1) to conform the qualification standards for assistant
secretaries to federal judges to other secretarial positions at
the JSP-lO level and (2) to replace "four years as a secretary to
a federal judge" with "four years as a secretary in a federal
court" in the qualification standards for principal secretaries
to federal judges.

          DIVERSITY IN WRONGFUL DEATH CASES

       The citizenship of a representative party in a civil
action is the citizenship of the representative rather than the
citizenship of the person represented. In some jurisdictions,
attorneys have sought the appointment of out-of-state
representatives in order to create diversity of citizenship so
that civil actions involving the interest represented may be
brought either in federal or in state courts.

       The Committee was of the view that the citizenship of
a representative party should be deemed to be the same as the
citizenship of the party represented in an action involving an
infant, an incompetent person, or an estate, and the
Conference agreed.        Without disturbing the previous
Conference action recommending the abolition of diversity
jurisdiction (March 1977 session, Conf. Rept., p. 8), the
Conference approved the Committee's recommendation that 28
U.S.C. 1332(c) be amended to read as follows:

            (c) For the purpose of this section and
            section 1441 of this title -­

            (1) [The present text of section 1332(c)];
            and

            (2)   the legal representative of the
            estate of a decedent shall be deemed to
            be a citizen only of the same state as
            the    decedent,    and     the   legal
            representative   of    an infant or
            incompetent shall be deemed to be a
            citizen only of the same state as the
            infant or incompetent.




                              49 

         REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN JUDGMENTS

        28 U.S.C. 1963 currently authorizes the registration of a
judgment in a foreign jurisdiction only when the judgment has
become final by appeal or upon the expiration of the time for
filing an appeal. The judgment is a lien on the property of the
judgment debtor which is located within the district. If the
property of the judgment debtor is located outside the district
or is removed to another jurisdiction pending appeal, the
judgment creditor cannot obtain a lien in the foreign
jurisdiction until after the appeal process is completed and
thus may be unable to enforce the judgment if assets have been
dissipated.

       The Committee determined that a judgment debtor
should not be permitted to hide his assets in a foreign
jurisdiction and that the district court entering the judgment
should be given discretion to permit registration in a foreign
jurisdiction pending appeal, but only upon a showing of good
cause.      The Conference concurred and approved the
Committee's recommendation that the first sentence of 28
U.S.C. 1963 be amended to read as follows:

             A judgment in an action for the
       recovery of money or property entered in any
       district court may be registered by filing a
       certified copy of such jUdgment in any other
       district when the judgment has become final
       by appeal or expiration of the time for
       appeal or when ordered by the court that
       entered the judgment for good cause shown.
                   REMOVAL JURISDICTION

        H.R. 2446, 99th Congress, would add a new subsection
(e) to 28 U.S.C. 1441 to overturn case law holding that a civil
action within the exclusive jurisdiction of a federal district
court is not removable from a state court in which it was
improvidently brought. The Committee agreed that the law
should be changed to permit removal in these circumstances,
but favored a more concise drafting approach consisting of
inserting the words "exclusive or concurrent!! in 28 U.S.C.
l441(a), rather than adding a new subparagraph. Section l44l(a)
would then read as follows:




                              50
      (a) Except as otherwise expressly provided
      by Act of Congress, any civil action brought
      in a state court of which the district courts
      of the United States have original
      jurisdiction, exclusive or concurrent, may be
      removed by the defendant or defendants, to
      the district court of the United States for
      the district and division embracing the place
      where such action is pending. [Emphasis
      addedJ

      Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference voted to support the Committee's proposed
amendment to 28 U.S.C. 144l(a), in lieu of enactment of H.R.
2446.

    JUDICIAL REVIEW OF FEDERAL MARITIME ORDERS

        Although all orders of the Federal Maritime Commission
and the Maritime Administration, except orders issued under
section 19 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920 (46 U.S.C. 876),
were historically reviewable only in the courts of appeals,
Congress in enacting the Shipping Act of 1984 (46 U.S.C. 1701 et
seq.) inadvertently failed to make conforming amendments to
title 28 of the United States Code necessary to continue court
of appeals review of such orders. H.R. 3049, 99th Congress,
would reinstate direct court of appeals review of Maritime
Commission and Maritime Administration orders, and also
extend court of appeals review to orders issued under section
19 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, the only category of
Commission orders not subject to direct court of appeals
review prior to the 1984 Act.
       The Committee observed that this legislation would,
with one limited exception, simply reinstate prior court of
appeals direct review, and thus would not substantially
increase the workload of the courts of appeals. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee, the Conference therefore
voted to support enactment of H.R. 3049.




                              51 

                     PRODUCT LIABILITY

        Judge Hunter informed the Conference that the
Subcommittee on Federal-State Relations had for some time
studied proposals to create a national, uniform product liability
law. The primary bill under consideration in the 99th Congress
is S. 100.

        The basic issues involved -- whether state product
liability law should be preempted in favor of a uniform national
law and, if so, what the sUbstantive law should be - are
questions of public policy for Congress to determine.
However, section 17 of S. 100 would create a Product Liability
Review Panel to be established by the Conference and
consisting of "three individuals selected on the basis of their
expertise regarding civil actions and recovery for loss or
damage caused by a product". The Panel would, among other
things, study the need for federal legislation by reviewing the
adequacy of existing remedies in providing recovery for loss or
damage caused by products.            Since section 17 would
inappropriately interject the Conference into policy
formulation and legislative recommendation in areas
traditionally considered to be matters for the Congress, the
Conference approved the Committee's recommendation that
section 17 of S. 100, the "Product Liability Act", be opposed.
            STATE COURT LIAISON IN FEDERAL 

                 RULEMAKING PROCESS 


       Rules of practice and evidence adopted in the federal
system are of significant import for state court systems
because of the state use of federal rules as models. In order to
enhance both federal and state judicial interests, the Chief
Justice agreed to the Committee's recommendation that a
representative of the Conference of Chief Justices be named
to the Standing Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure
and each of its advisory committees, except the Advisory
Committee on Bankruptcy Rules.

     REPORT OF MATTERS HELD UNDER ADVISEMENT

       At its session in March, 1985 (Conf. Rept., p. 12), the
Conference requested the Committee to consider combining
the report on pending three-year-old civil cases with the report
on matters held under advisement in the district courts. Judge
Hunter informed the Conference that the Subcommittee on


                              52
Judicial Statistics had declined to combine the two reports
after being informed by the Administrative Office that a
combination report could result in duplicative effort by judges,
magistrates, and circuit executives, and would surely delay the
distribution of the information contained in the report on
matters held under advisement.

                        ARBITRATION

       Judge Hunter advised the Conference that ten courts
are now participating in the court-ordered arbitration pilot
program in the federal courts. Programs are underway in
Eastern Pennsylvania, Northern California, Middle Florida,
Middle North Carolina, New Jersey, Western Oklahoma,
Western Michigan, and Western Texas. Eastern New York
plans to implement its arbitration program by the end of the
calendar year.

                COMMlTI'EE ON THE BUDGET

       Chief Judge Charles Clark, Chairman of the Committee
on the Budget, presented the report of the Committee.

       SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE
                 FISCAL YEAR 1986

       Judge Clark reported that no program supplementals for
the fiscal year 1986 were currently anticipated.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference authorized the Director of the Administrative
Office to submit to the Congress any requests for supplemental
appropriations for the fiscal year 1986 due to new legislation,
action taken by the Judicial Conference, or for any other
reason the Director and the Budget Committee consider
necessary and appropriate.

     APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1987

       The Conference approved the budget estimates for the
fiscal year 1987, prepared by the Director of the
Administrative Office and submitted by the Committee. The
estimates, exclusive of the Supreme Court, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the Court of
International Trade, and the Federal Judicial Center, total
$1,169,729,000, an increase of $123,729,000, or 12 percent over


                              53
the amount approved by the House for the fiscal year 1986.
Provision has been made in the budget estimates for an
additional 1,273 permanent positions.       Approximately 64
percent of the increases in the budget are for mandatory or
uncontrollable costs such as within-grade salary advancements
and promotions; the restoration of base budget authority
resulting from the carrying forward of fiscal year 1985
unobligated balances; increases in contract rates and charges
for equipment, services, and supplies; and rental increases for
space occupied by the courts. The remaining increases are
necessary to maintain the same level of support and services
required by the rapid and continuing growth in the workload of
the judiciary.

       The Director of the Administrative Office was
authorized to amend the budget estimates due to new
legislation, action taken by the Judicial Conference, or for any
other reason the Director and the Budget Committee consider
necessary and appropriate.

           COURT SECURITY BUDGET ESTIMATES

       The court security budget for the fiscal year 1987, as
submitted to the Budget Committee based on requests from
the district court security committees which were reviewed
and revised by the U.S. Marshals Service, amounted to
$50,212,000. These funds would have provided for 1,282 court
security officers, or an increase of 282 positions over the
number requested for 1986.

       Judge Clark reported that the Budget Committee was
concerned with the increased court security request, which is
56 percent over the $32,000,000 approved by the House for
1986 and almost twice the level of funding authorized for the
fiscal year 1985. The Committee also observed significant
variances in the numbers of court security officers requested
by districts with similar characteristics. Accordingly, the
Committee approved for inclusion in the budget estimates for
the fiscal year 1987 only the sum of $37,844,000 for court
security, an amount which will provide the level of security
equipment and services requested for the fiscal year 1986,
adjusted to reflect inflation and nonrecurring expenses, subject
to amendment based upon a reevaluation of fiscal year 1987
court security needs.




                              54 

       The     Conference      approved     the     Committee's
recommendation that each court security committee and
district court chief judge (or designee) reevaluate the request
for security services and equipment for the fiscal year 1987 and
submit a revised estimate providing the minimum personnel
and equipment necessary for the security of the court.

               JUDICIAL ETmCS COMMrITEE

       Judge John H. Pratt, a member of the Judicial Ethics
Committee, presented the report of the Committee on behalf
of the Chairman, Judge Edward A. Tamm.

              ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE

       Judge Pratt reported that the Committee had received
1,919 financial disclosure reports for the calendar year 1984,
including 983 reports from judicial officers and 936 reports
from judicial employees.        Since January 1, 1985, the
Committee had also received 60 reports from nominees to
judgeship positions. All reports submitted to the Committee
are being reviewed by at least one Committee member to
determine whether they comply with section 302 of the Ethics
in Government Act.

          REPORTING FORM AND INSTRUCTIONS

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved a "Checklist" to be included with
financial disclosure report forms.       The Conference also
approved a Committee recommendation that official court
reporters be requested to file an original and two copies of the
financial disclosure report form.

     ADVISORY COMMITrEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

       Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the
Advisory Com mittee on Codes of Conduct, presented the
report of the Committee.

              ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE

       Judge Markey informed the Conference that since its
last report, the Committee had received 24 inquiries and had
issued 17 advisory responses. The Chairman also responded to
26 telephone inquiries that did not require reference to the


                              55
Committee. The Committee is publishing opinions dealing with
disqualification when (l) a former judge appears as counsel; (2)
a judge's relative is the spouse of a law firm partner; and (3) a
judge is a utility ratepayer or taxpayer.

     DISQUALIFICATION IN PROTRACTED LITIGATION

      In September, 1980 (Conf. Rept., p. 81), the Conference
approved a proposed amendment to 28 U.S.C. 455 and
forwarded it to the Congress:
       (f) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions,
       if any justice, judge, magistrate, or
       bankruptcy judge to whom a matter has been
       assigned would be disqualified, after
       substantial judicial time has been devoted to
       the matter, because of the appearance, after
       the matter was assigned to him, of a party in
       which he individually or as a fiduciary, or his
       spouse or minor child residing in his
       household, has a financial interest (other
       than an interest that could be substantially
       affected by the outcome), a waiver of
       disqualification may be accepted from the
       parties;   in the absence of waiver,
       disqualification is not required if the judge
       determines that the public interest in
       avoiding the cost of delay or reassignment
       outweighs any appearance of impropriety
       arising from his continuing with the matter
       to completion.

H.R. 3044, 99th Congress, would also amend 28 U.S.C. 455, but
only with respect to class actions.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference reaffirmed support for its own amendment to
section 455, and voted to oppose enactment of H.R. 3044 in its
present form.

       CODE OF CONDUCT FOR STAFF ATTORNEYS

       The present Code of Conduct for Staff Attorneys does
not address the question of service as an arbitrator or mediator
in a dispute not pending in the court employing the staff



                              56
attorney. Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved an amendment to Canon 5 of the Code
for Staff Attorneys, adding the following subdivision:

      e. Service as Arbitrator or Mediator. A
      staff attorney shall not serve as arbitrator or
      mediator of disputes except in the
      performance of prescribed duties with
      respect to cases pending before the court by
      which he is employed.

         APPLICABILITY OF CODES OF CONDUCT

       In March, 1978 (Conf. Rept., p. 14), the Conference made
the Code of Conduct for United States Judges applicable to
Administrative Office employees in salary grades GS-15 and
above.     The Conference subsequently approved and
promulgated specific codes for particular judicial officers and,
in September, 1982 (Conf. Rept., p. 83), applied the Code of
Conduct for Circuit Executives to the Directors of the
Administrative Office and the Federal Judicial Center and to
the Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice.

       After reviewing the various Codes of Conduct, the
Committee determined that the Code for Circuit Executives is
more appropriately applicable to Administrative Office
employees in grades GS-15 and above than is the Code of
Conduct for Judges.      Upon the recommendation of the
Committee, the Conference therefore amended its March, 1978
resolution to make the Code for Circuit Executives, rather
than the Code for Judges, applicable to Administrative Office
employees at or above the GS-15 level.

        FORM FOR NOTICE OF DISQUALIFICATION
       The Committee developed a form entitled "Notice
Concerning Waiver of Judicial Disqualification", and the
Conference authorized its distribution for consideration and
possible adoption by the courts.

       COMMITI'EE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

      A written statement filed with the Conference by the
Committee on Intercircuit Assignments indicated that, during
the period February 1, 1985 through August 15, 1985, the
Committee had recommended 47 intercircuit assignments to be


                              57
undertaken by 39 judges. Of this number, nine were senior
circuit judges, 11 were active circuit judges, 11 were senior
district judges, four were active district judges, one was a
senior judge of the Court of International Trade, and three
were active judges of the Court of International Trade.

        Of the 47 assignments approved, 25 judges undertook 30
assignments to the courts of appeals, and 14 judges undertook
17 assignments to the district courts.

 COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

       Judge Edward T. Gignoux, Chairman of the Standing
Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, presented the
report of the Committee.

                      APPELLATE RULES

        The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed
new Appellate Rules 3.l, 5.l and 15.1, and proposed amendments
to Appellate Rules 19, 28(c), 30(a) and (b), 39(c), and 45(b). The
Committee also submitted additional proposed amendments to
Appellate Rules 3(d), 8(b), 10(b) and (c), ll(b), 12(a), 23(b) and
(c), 24(a), 25(a) and (b), 26(a) and (c), 28(j), 3Ha) and (c), 34(a)
and (e), 43(a) and (c), 45(a) and (d), and 46(a) and (b), to
eliminate gender-specific language. The proposed amendments
were accompanied by a report from the Advisory Committee
Chairman summarizing the work of the Advisory Committee,
and "Committee Notes" explaining the purpose and intent of
the proposed amendments. The Committee recommended that
these proposed amendments be approved by the Conference
and transmitted to the Supreme Court for its consideration
with a recommendation that they be approved by the Court and
transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law.                    This
recommendation was approved by the Conference.

                    RULES ENABLING ACTS

       In September, 1983 (Conf. Rept., pp. 65-66), the
Conference expressed views on H.R. 4144, 98th Congress, a bill
to amend the Rules Enabling Acts. H.R. 2633, 99th Congress,
the successor to H.R. 4144, inco.rporates many of the
Conference's previous recommendations but also contains new
provisions which are a matter of concern. At Congressman
Kastenmeier's request, Judge Gignoux filed a statement on
H.R. 2633 with the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts,


                                58
Civil Liberties, and the Administration of Justice in connection
with a July 15, 1985, hearing in the Subcommittee. Chairman
Gignoux supported certain portions of the legislation but noted
four matters of significant concern:

    1. 	   The failure of the proposed legislation to continue
           current Rules Enabling Act language permitting
           promulgated rules to supersede conflicting procedural
           statutes creates the potential for fruitless satellite
           litigation.

    2. 	   A provision that rules "shall not .•. supersede any
           provision of a law of the United States" could destroy
           the rule making process because rules once in effect
           are "laws of the United Statesll •

    3. 	   A requirement that the Supreme Court transmit with
           a proposed rule proposed amendments to any law "to
           the extent such amendments are necessary to
           implement such proposed rulell could task the Court
           with rendering advisory opinions prohibited by Article
           III of the Constitution.

    4. 	   A requirement that committee meetings be open
           would seriously impair the efficient functioning of
           the rulemaking process without significant public
           benefit.

     Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference endorsed the views expressed by Judge Gignoux in
his July, 1985 statement, with two modifications suggested by
Judge Gignoux:       first, the Conference declined to object
further to elimination of the "supersession" clause; and second,
the Conference declined to object to the requirement that
proposed rules be accompanied by proposed statutory changes
necessary to implement the rules, provided that the Judicial
Conference rather than the Supreme Court is charged with the
responsibility of forwarding the statutory changes.

      COMMITl'EE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                 PROBATION SYSTEM

       Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat, Chairman of the Committee on
the Administration of the Probation System, presented the
report of the Com mittee.



                               59
                  SENTENCING INSTITUTES

       At the request of the Committee, the Conference
approved the time, place, participants, and tentative agenda
for a Joint Institute on Sentencing for the judges of the Second
and Sixth Circuits at Butner, North Carolina, March 17-19,1986,
and for an Institute on Sentencing for the judges of the Ninth
Circuit at Phoenix, Arizona, April 21-23, 1986. The final
agenda for each institute will be available for Conference
approval at its next session.

      COMPREHENSIVE CRIME CONTROL ACT OF 1984

       In March, 1985 (Conf. Rept., p. 21), the Conference
authorized the Committee to work with the Administrative
Office and the Federal Judicial Center in drafting technical
and conforming amendments to improve the operation of the
Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 (P.L. 98-473).
Judge Tjoflat subsequently addressed the problems identified
by the Committee in a March 27, 1985, hearing before the
House Judiciary Subcommittee on Criminal Justice. P.L. 99­
22, signed into law on April 15, 1985, corrected two of the
problems by allowing the President to appoint senior judges as
members of the United States Sentencing Commission and by
authorizing    the   Administrative    Office    to    request
appropriations for the Commission until its first chairman is
appointed.

       On April 10, 1985, the Executive Committee, on behalf
of the Conference, approved recommendations for judicial
members of the Sentencing Commission and forwarded them to
the President. The Administrative Office also requested, and
obtained, appropriations as "start-up" funds for the
Com mission.

       Judge Tjoflat advised the Conference that, at the
request of the Department of Justice for assistance in
implementation of the Comprehensive Crime Control Act, the
Committee had shared with the Department the judiciary's
proposed amendments to the Act. Legislation introduced at
the Department's behest, S. 1236 and H.R. 2774, 99th Congress,
adopts many - but not all -- of the judiciary's suggestions.
The Committee recommended that section 4 of the
Department's technical bill, which would amend 18 U.S.C. 3573
to provide for modification or remission of a fine, be opposed.
The Committee also recommended that section 10 of the bill


                              60
be amended to permit federal judges to serve on the
Sentencing Commission part-time, an amendment also
proposed by the Conference's Criminal Law Committee.
Finally, the Committee recommended three amendments to
section II of the technical bill: (a) to address the Committee's
concern that the guideline range established by 28 U.S.C.
994(b) may be too restrictive for short sentences; (b) to
modify the same section of the Code to delete the words
"socioeconomic status"; and (c) to provide for emergency
adoption of temporary guidelines. The Conference approved
all the Committee's recommendations.

                CRIMINAL FINE COLLECTION

       Section 6 of the Department of Justice's proposed
technical amendments to the Comprehensive Crime Control
Act of 1984, S. 1236 and H.R. 2774, would require clerks of
court to be responsible for the receipt and accounting of all
criminal fines. In addition, the Department has transmitted to
the Congress proposed legislation (not yet introduced) requiring
clerks of court to collect all United States magistrate-imposed
criminal fines and providing that the Attorney General and the
Director of the Administrative Office may agree on other
specified categories of offenses resulting in fines to be
collected by the clerks.

       Prior to enactment of the Criminal Fine Enforcement
Act of 1984 (P.L. 98-596), clerks of court, as a convenience to
all parties, physically received and accounted for fine
payments. Under the Fine Enforcement Act, responsibility for
the collection of fines was placed squarely on the Department
of Justice, subject only to an agreement, contemplated in 18
U.s.C. 3565(d)(2), whereby the Attorney General and the
Director of the Administrative Office may define the limited
circumstances in which fines may be received by the clerks.
Absent that agreement, judicial personnel have no authority to
continue to receive fine payments.

       Judge Tjoflat noted that the Probation, Magistrates, and
Criminal Law Committees had each considered this subject in
detail and had uniformly concluded that the law currently
requires the United States Attorneys to collect criminal fines
and that it is entirely proper for these officials to be charged
with that responsibility.




                              61 

       Upon the recommendation of all three Committees, the
Conference affirmed that, as a matter of policy, it is
inappropriate for the judiciary to collect criminal fines, except
in limited circumstances where it is in the public interest for
the courts to perform this executive branch function. The
Conference also voted to oppose any proposed changes in the
law, such as section 6 of S. 1236 and H.R. 2774, that would
transfer this responsibility to the courts in general or to United
States magistrates in particular.

                      DRUG AFTERCARE

       Public Law 95-537 established the drug aftercare
program within the federal judiciary. The legislation also
authorized funds to be appropriated to carry out the program
in the fiscal years 1980-1982. Public Law 98-236 authorized
additional funding through the fiscal year 1986.

       In enacting the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of
1984, Congress inadvertently eliminated the Director's
contracting authority for the drug aftercare program. In
recognition of this problem, the Department of Justice
included as section 26 of its bill to make technical amendments
in the Crime Control Act (S. 1236 and H.R. 2774) the
reestablishment of the Director's authority for drug aftercare.

       The Committee found the present statutory approach,
which limits to three-year intervals the authorization of
appropriations for the drug aftercare program, to be unwieldy
and impractical. Accordingly, the Committee recommended
the enactment of legislation to extend indefinitely the period
for which funds are authorized to be appropriated for drug
aftercare. Specific amounts would then be set through the
appropriations process.

       Another limitation in the drug aftercare legislation is
its failure to authorize the Director of the Administrative
Office to provide alcoholism treatment services for
probationers and parolees. While title II of the Speedy Trial
Act and the Pretrial Services Act of 1982 authorize the
Director to contract for alcohol abuse treatment services for
persons awaiting trial, no comparable provision exists with
respect to those on parole and probation. In order for the




                               62 

probation system to provide comprehensive services to the
courts and to the U.S. Parole Commission, the Committee
concluded that alcoholism treatment must be provided to those
parolees and probationers in need of it.

       The Conference thereupon approved the Committee's
recommendation that the first paragraph of proposed statutory
language in section 26 of S. 1236 and H.R. 2774 be amended to
read as follows:

     He [the Director] shall have the authority to 

     contract with any appropriate public or 

     private agency or person for the detection of 

     and care in the community of an offender who 

     is alcohol dependent or is an addict or a drug­ 

     dependent person within the meaning of 

     section 2 of the Public Health Service Act (42 

     U.S.C. 201). This authority shall include, but 

     not be limited to, providing equipment and 

     supplies; testing; medical, educational, social, 

     psychological,     and    vocational   services, 

     corrective and preventive guidance and 

     training; and other rehabilitative services 

     designed to protect the public and benefit the 

     alcohol dependent person or addict by 

     eliminating his dependence on alcohol or 

     addicting drugs, or by controlling his 

     dependence      and    his   susceptibility   to 

     addiction. The Director may negotiate and 

     award such contracts without regard to 

     section 3709 of the Revised Statutes (41 

     U.S.C. 5). [Emphasis addedJ

     The Conference also approved the Committee's
recommendation that Congress extend indefinitely the
appropriations authority for drug aftercare and leave the
specific amounts to the appropriations process.




                              63 

                    CARRYING OF FIREARMS

       In March, 1975 (Conf. Rept., pp. 20-21), the Conference
approved guidelines permitting probation officers to carry
firearms in certain circumstances. Upon the recommendation
of the Committee, the Conference extended the March, 1975
firearms policy to cover pretrial services officers.

      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
               BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

       Judge Robert E. De Mascio, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System, presented the
report of the Committee.

     BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIP RECOMMENDATIONS

       The Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal Judgeship Act
of 1984 (P .L. 98-353) established 232 bankruptcy judgeships by
law and provided that the Conference "shall, from time to
time, submit recommendations to the Congress regarding the
number of bankruptcy judges needed and the districts in which
such judges are needed." 28 U.S.C. 157{b)(2).

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference voted to request that Congress approve the
following 47 new bankruptcy judgeships:

    Third Circuit             New Jersey                   2

    Fourth Circuit            Maryland                      1
                              South Carolina                I
                              Virginia, Eastern             I

    Fifth Circuit             Texas, Northern               I
                              Texas, Southern              3
                              Texas, Western                I

    Sixth Circuit             Kentucky, Western             Ia/
                              Michigan, Western             I
                              Tennessee, Eastern            I
                              Tennessee, Western            1

    a/ To have concurrent jurisdiction in the Eastern District
    of Kentucky.



                             64
   Seventh Circuit           Illinois, Northern            2
                             Illinois, Central             Ib/
                             Indiana, Northern             C
                             Wisconsin, Eastern            1

    Eighth Circuit           Arkansas, Eastern/
                               Western                     1
                             Iowa, Northern                1
                             Iowa, Southern                1
                             Nebraska                      1

    Ninth Circuit            California, Northern         2
                             California, Eastern          2
                             California, Central          7
                             California, Southern          1
                             Idaho                         1
                             Oregon                        1
                             Washington, Eastern           1
                             Washington, Western           1

   Tenth Circuit             Oklahoma, Northern            1
                             Oklahoma, Western             1
                             Utah                          1

    Eleventh Circuit         Florida, Middle              2
                             Georgia, Northern            2
                             Georgia, Southern            1

   TOTAL                                                 47


   b/ To have concurrent jurisdiction in the Northern and
   Southern Districts of Illinois.
   A small number of additional surveys of judgeship needs
remained unfinished.    At Judge DeMascio's request, the
Conference authorized the Executive Committee to consider
any additional positions recommended by the Bankruptcy
Committee.

               INTERIM MODEL LOCAL RULE

       In March, 1985 (Conf. Rept., pp. 21-22), Judge DeMascio
advised the Conference that a proposed model local rule for
bankruptcy references under the 1984 bankruptcy amendments


                             65
required further review.     The Conference authorized the
Committee to submit the proposed rule to the Executive
Committee of the Conference at a later date. In July, 1985,
the Executive Com mittee directed that the proposed rule be
circulated for additional comment.

       After reviewing the comments on the proposed rule and
with the approval of a majority of the Committee, Chairman
DeMascio withdrew the rule from further Conference
consideration. Judge DeMascio pointed out that, in light of the
time which had elapsed since enactment of the 1984 bankruptcy
amendments, promulgation of another interim measure rather
than permanent amendments to the Bankruptcy Rules would be
disruptive. Judge DeMascio also noted that the Advisory
Committee on Bankruptcy Rules will soon circulate the first
draft of its proposed revision and that circulation of two
different rules concurrently would generate confusion among
the bar.

      COMMITrEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
           FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

      Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jr., Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Federal Magistrates System,
presented the report of the Committee.
        MAGISTRATES 70 YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER

       28 U.S.C. 63I(d) provides that no U.S. magistrate may
serve after reaching the age of 70, except that upon unanimous
vote of the judges of the district court, a 70-year-old
magistrate may continue to serve and be reappointed to
office. Section 4(b) of H.R. 1710, 99th Congress, would delete
section 63I(d) from the Code, removing any restrictions on
service beyond age 70.

       The Committee was of the view that complete
elimination of the age 70 limitation is not warranted because
some alternative to formal removal of a magistrate is
desirable. On the other hand, in order to prevent a single judge
from frustrating the will of the majority, the Committee
considered a majority rather than a unanimous vote of the
judges of the appointing court to be more appropriate for
continuation in office and reappointment of a 70-year-old
magistrate.



                              66
       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference voted to oppose section 4(b) of H.R. 1710. The
Conference also voted to support a legislative proposal to
amend 28 U.S.C. 631(d) to permit a district court by majority
vote (rather than unanimous vote) to continue in office and to
reappoint a magistrate who attains age 70, and to grant to the
court flexibility in determining the period or periods of such
service beyond age 70.

 USE OF LEGAL ASSISTANTS IN SOCIAL SECURITY CASES

       In March, 1980 (Conf. Rept., p. 33), the Conference
established the principle that "The number of legal assistant
positions authorized in any district may not exceed a ratio of
one assistant per fUll-time magistrate position."            The
Committee requested a waiver from the general rule for an
experimental program to establish a pool of up to five legal
assistants for a period of 18 months to assist one district court
in handling social security cases. The Conference granted the
waiver.

       The Committee will monitor the progress of the
experiment and report the results and recommendations, if
any, to the Committee on Court Administration.

           CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

       After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the
circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
magistrate positions.     Unless otherwise indicated, these
changes are to become effective when appropriated funds are
available.
                        FIRST CIRCUIT

Rhode Island:

    Continued the authority of the clerk of court to perform
    magistrate duties for an additional four-year term of
    office at the current aggregate salary of a clerk of a large
    district court (JSP-16).




                              67
                      SECOND CIRCUIT 


Connecticut:

   (1) 	    Continued the full-time magistrate positions at New
            Haven and Bridgeport which are due to expire
            January 24, 1987, and November 1, 1987,
            respectively, for additional eight-year terms.

   (2) 	    Redesignated the official location of the full-time
            magistrate position at Bridgeport as Bridgeport or
            Hartford.

   (3) 	    Redesignated the official location of the full-time
            magistrate position now designated as Hartford or
            New Haven as N'ew Haven or Bridgeport.

New York, Western:

   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Buffalo for
   an additional eight-year term.

                         THIRD CIRCUIT

Pennsylvania, Western:

   (1) 	    Continued the two full-time magistrate positions at
            Pittsburgh for additional eight-year terms.

   (2) 	    Authorized a third full-time magistrate position for
            the district to be located at Pittsburgh.

   (3) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Erie
            for an additional four-year term and increased the
            salary from $1l,195 to $20,039 per annum.

                       FOURTH CIRCUIT

Maryland:

    (1) 	   Continued the two full-time magistrate positions at
            Baltimore which are due to expire on October 17,
            1986, and December 21, 1986, for additional eight­
            year terms.




                              68 

    (2)     Authorized a sixth full-time magistrate position for
            the district, to be located at Baltimore.
South Carolina:
    Continued the full-time magistrate position at Greenville
    for an additional eight-year term.

                        FIFTH CIRCUIT
Texas, Northern:

    (1) 	   Continued the two full-time magistrate positions at
            Dallas for additional eight-year terms.
    (2) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
            Amarillo to a full-time magistrate position at
            Amarillo or Dallas and continued the part-time
            position until conversion to full-time status.
    (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at San
            Angelo for an additional four-year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $2,015 per annum.
Texas, Eastern:
    (1) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Tyler
            which is due to expire on October 1, 1987, for an
            additional eight-year term.
    (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
            Sherman and Texarkana for additional four-year
            terms at the currently authorized salaries of $3,022
            and $4,030 per annum, respectively.
                        SIXTH CIRCUIT

Kentucky, Eastern:

    Continued the part-time magistrate positions at London
    and Covington for additional four-year terms at the
    currently authorized salary of $7,164 per annum each.




                              69 

Kentucky, Western:

   (I) 	     Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Louisville for an additional eight-year term.

   (2) 	     Continued the authority of the deputy clerk of court
             to perform magistrate duties for an additional four­
             year term at no additional compensation.

   (3) 	     Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
             Hopkinsville and Bowling Green for additional four­
             year terms at the currently authorized salaries of
             $34,200 and $4,030 per annum, respectively.

Michigan, Eastern:

    Continued the two fUll-time magistrate positions at
    Detroit which are due to expire February 11, 1987, and
    October 3, 1987, for additional eight-year terms.

                        EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Arkansas, Eastern:

    (1) 	    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Little Rock which is due to expire on December 21,
             1986, for an additional eight-year term.
    (2) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             West Memphis for an additional four-year term at
             the currently authorized salary of $2,015 per annum.

Iowa, Southern:

    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Council
    Bluffs for an additional four-year term at the currently
    authorized salary of $7,164 per annum.

Minnesota:

    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Bemidji for
    an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
    salary of $2,015 per annum.




                               70 

Nebraska:

    Continued the part-time magistrate position at North
    Platte for an additional four-year term at the currently
    authorized salary of $2,015.
North Dakota:

    Ratified the actions of the Executive Committee which:

    (1) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
            Fargo to a full-time position at that location.

    (2) 	   Discontinued either the part-time magistrate
            position at Grand Forks or the part-time magistrate
            position at Devil's Lake (or Minnewaukan), in the
            discretion of the court, and redesignated the other
            position as Grand Forks, Devil's Lake, or
            Minnewaukan at a salary of $4,030 per annum,
            effective upon the appointment of the part-time
            magistrate or on September 30, 1985, whichever is
            later.
   (3) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
            Bismarck and Minot for additional four-year terms
            at the currently authorized salaries of $7,164 and
            $5,037 per annum, respectively.

    (4) 	   Authorized priority in funding for the new full-time
            magistrate position at Fargo.
                        NINTH CIRCUIT

Alaska:
   (1) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Fairbanks for an additional four-year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $22,724 per annum.

   (2) 	    Deferred the scheduled review of the part-time
            magistrate position at Nome for one year after the
            position has been filled.




                              71 

Arizona:

    (1) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
            Phoenix which is due to expire December 19, 1987,
            for an additional eight-year term.

    (2) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
            Tucson for an additional eight-year term.

    (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Tucson for an additional four-year term and
            increased the salary of the position from $25,859
            per annum to $34,200 per annum.

    (4) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Grand Canyon National Park for an additional four­
            year term at the currently authorized salary of
            $22,724 per annum.

California, Southern:

    (1) 	   Continued the two full-time magistrate positions at
            San Diego which are due to expire on September 14,
            1986, and September 5, 1988, for additional eight­
            year terms.
    (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at El
            Centro for an additional four-year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $29,946 per annum.

Montana:
    (1) 	   Authorized a new part-time magistrate position at
            Butte at a salary of $2,015 per annum.

    (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
            Great Falls ($9,179), Kalispell ($5,037), Helena
            ($4,030), Missoula ($3,022), and Cut Bank ($2,015)
            for additional four-year terms at their current
            respective salary levels.

    (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Wolf
            Point for an additional four-year term and increased
            the salary of the position from $2,015 per annum to
            $3,022 per annum.



                              72
Washington, Western:

   (1) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Mt.
            Ranier National Park for an additional four-year
            term, increased the salary from $17,352 per annum
            to $34,200 per annum, and redesignated the position
            as Tacoma or Mt. Ranier National Park.

   (2) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Olympic National Park for an additional four-year
            term at the currently authorized salary of $25,859
            per annum.
   (3) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
            Vancouver and Bellingham for additional four-year
            terms at the currently authorized salary of $4,030
            per annum each.
                       TENTH CIRCUIT

Colorado:

   (1) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Colorado Springs for an additional four-year term at
            the currently authorized salary of $34,200 per
            annum.
   (2) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Monte Vista for an additional four-year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $2,015 per annum.

   (3) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Durango for an additional four-year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $3,022 per annum.

New Mexico:

   0) 	     Continued the full-time magistrate position at
            Albuquerque for an additional eight-year term.

   (2) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Las
            Cruces for an additional four-year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $20,039 per annum.




                              73
Oklahoma, Western:

   (1) 	   Authorized a fourth full-time magistrate position at
           Oklahoma City and authorized a review of the need
           for four full-time magistrate positions prior to the
           filling of the first vacancy to occur two years or
           more after appointment of the fourth full-time
           magistrate, or in four years, whichever occurs
           earlier.
   (2) 	   Continued the two full-time magistrate positions at
           Oklahoma City which are due to expire on
           November 26, 1986, and August 26, 1987, for
           additional eight-year terms.

   (3) 	   Removed the condition for review in two years of
           the full-time magistrate position authorized in
           September, 1983.
   (4) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
           Lawton for an additional four-year term at the
           currently authorized salary of $34,200 per annum.

   (5) 	   Reduced the salary of the part-time magistrate
           position at Enid from $3,022 per annum to $2,015
           per annum, effective October 1, 1985.
Wyoming:
   (1) 	   Continued the authority of the clerk of court to
           perform magistrate duties for an additional four­
           year term at the currently authorized aggregate
           compensation of a clerk of a large district court
           (JSP-16).

   (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
           Casper and Green River for additional four-year
           terms at the currently authorized salary of $2,015
           per annum each.

   (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
           Lander for an additional four-year term at the
           currently authorized salary of $3,022 per annum.

   (4) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
           Rawlins, effective September 30, 1985.


                             74
                     ELEVENTH CIRCUIT 


Alabama, Southern:

    Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Selma,
    effective November 26, 1986, the expiration of the current
    term.

Florida, Middle:

    (1) 	   Continued the two full-time magistrate positions at
            Tampa, which are due to expire on January 3, 1987,
            and April 8,1987, for additional eight-year terms.

    (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Fort
            Myers for an additional four-year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $2,015 per annum.

Georgia, Middle:

    (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Columbus for an additional four-year term and
            increased the salary from $17,352 per annum to
            $34,200 per annum.

    (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
            Albany for an additional four-year term at the
            currently authorized salary of $5,037 per annum.

COMMITI'BB TO IMPLEMBNT THB CRIMINAL JUSTICB ACT

      Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the Committee
to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented the report of
the Committee.

               APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

       Judge MacBride submitted to the Conference a report
on appointments and payments under the Criminal Justice Act
for the first half of the fiscal year 1985. The report indicated
that $42,000,000 were available for the implementation of the
Criminal Justice Act at the beginning of the fiscal year and
that projected obligations for the year are $59,786,000. The




                              75
projected deficiency is due primarily to increased panel
attorney compensation costs resulting from provisions of the
Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 doubling the
Criminal Justice Act hourly rates and case compensation
maximums, and to additional pay costs for defender
personnel. A supplemental appropriation request to cover the
projected deficiency was recently approved by the Congress.

        During the first half of the fiscal year 1985,
approximately 23,000 persons were represented under the
Criminal Justice Act, as compared to 21,700 in the first half of
the fiscal year 1984, an increase of six percent. This increase
parallels the rise of 8.3 percent in the number of criminal
cases commenced in the United States district courts during
the 12-month period ended March 31, 1985. Of the 23,000
persons represented during the first half of the fiscal year,
13,832, or 60 percent, were represented by federal public
defender and community defender organizations, an increase of
six percent from the number of appointments made during the
first half of the fiscal year 1984.

   BUDGET REQUESTS - FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS

       The Criminal Justice Act, as amended, requires that a
budget for each federal public defender organization,
established pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3006A(h)(2)(A), be approved
by the Judicial Conference in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 605.
The Committee reviewed 15 requests for supplemental funding
for the fiscal year 1986 and reviewed requests for the 35
federal public defender organizations for funding for the fiscal
year 1987.
       The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved supplemental budget requests for the
fiscal year 1986 for federal defender organizations as follows:


 California, Northern .•.••••••.••••••••••                              $ 40,788
 California, Eastern .•.••••.•.•••.••..••.                                 34,933
 California, Central •.••••••.•.•••.••.•.•                                 68,740
 Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     .      20,451
 Florida, Northern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        .      48,625
 Florida, Southern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        .     226,134
 Hawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .    162,500




                                        76 

 Illinois, Central &: Southern,
   &: Missouri, Eastern •••••••••••..•.••••                                22,617
 Louisiana, Eastern ..••••••.•••••.•.••••                                  23,351
 Nevada .•.....           * •••••••••••••••••••••                          34,398
 Pennsylvania, Middle &: Western .••••••.•••                               41,557
 Puerto Rico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
       66,013
 Tennessee, Middle •••••••••••••..••••••                                    7,370
 Texas, Southern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
        127,019
 Washington, Western ••••••••••••.•.•••••                                 339,746

   TOTAL ............................ . 
                               $1,264,242

       The Conference, also upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved budget requests for the fiscal year 1987
for the federal public defender organizations as follows:

 Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
     $966,314
 California, Northern ..•••••..•.•.•••••••                               1,139,562
 California, Eastern . • • • • • • • • • . . . . • . • • • • •             954,839
 California, Central •••••••••••••.•••••••                               1,976,968
 Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
        497,654
 Connecticut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
       445,402
 Florida, Northern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
           341,338
 Florida., Middle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
        758,499
 Florida, Southern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
         1,879,528
 Georgia, Southern •.•••.••••••.....•••••                                  313,461
 Hawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
      691,980
 Illinois, Central &: Southern,
   &: Missouri, Eastern ••••••••••••••••.•.                               503,388
 Kansas ••.••••.••••..••••••••.•.•••••                                    408,743
 Louisiana, Eastern ....•••••.•.•.•••••••                                 485,195
 Maryland •.•.•......••••.......•.••••                                    889,352
 Massachusetts .•....••••••..•..•••••••                                   365,515
 Minnesota .•.•...••.•.••.•.....••...•                                    302,369
 Missouri, Western .....•••........••••••                                 620,577
 Nevada •••.•....••••••.•.•.••.•••••.                                     593,917
 New Jersey ••••.•.••••••••.•....•••••                                    903,077
 New Mexico •••••.••••••••••••••••••••                                    374,247
 North Carolina, Eastern •••••••••••••••••                                402,577
 Ohio, Northern . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . • . • . . • . • . 
         353,630
 Oklahoma, Northern, Eastern,
   & Western ••........••..•.•.•...•...                                   440,052
 Oregon •••••••....••••••.•••.....•••                                     622,859
 Pennsylvania, Middle &: Western •••••••••••                              795,247
 Puerto Rico •••••.••••••••••••••..••••                                   483,471
 South Carolina ••••..•.•••••....•••••••                                  356,070


                                        77
 Tennessee, Middle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           405,044
 Tennessee, Western ..••....••...•.•.•••                               232,273
 Texas, Southern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         918,523
 Texas, Western . . . . . . . . ., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       841,707
 Virgin Islands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .       500,494
 Washington, Western .•••...••••.•.•..•.•                              848,595
 West Virginia, Southern •••.••.....•••..••                            222,910

   TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $22,835,377 


 Judge MacBride informed the Conference that the foregoing
budgets for the fiscal year 1987 were based upon projected
caseloads and that the Committee will entertain requests for
supplemental funding if workloads or other factors warrant
reconsideration of funding needs. Judge MacBride also stated
that although the Conference in September, 1984 (Conf. Rept.,
p. 83) had approved funding for the establishment of a federal
defender organization for the Middle District of Pennsylvania,
a reevaluation of the projected caseload had led the Middle and
Western Districts of Pennsylvania to amend their Criminal
Justice Act plans to authorize a branch office of the Western
District of Pennsylvania in the Middle District. The Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit approved the amendments to
both district plans, and the Administrative Office and the
Committee agreed to the consolidation of the budgets
previously approved by the Conference for the separate
organiza tions.

                   GRANT REQUESTS ­
           COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

       The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, approved supplemental sustaining grants for the
fiscal year 1986 for the following community defender
organiza tions:

 The Legal Aid Society of New York,
  Federal Defender Services Unit,
  New York, Eastern &. Southern ..•••••••••.•                         $102,600

 Defender Assn. of Philadelphia,
  Federal Court Division,
  Pennsyl vania, Eastern. . • • • . . • . . • • • . • • • • . •         25,377

   TOTAL. . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . .. ... . . . . . ...          $127,977



                                      78 

      The Conference, upon the recommendation of the
Committee, also approved sustaining grants for the fiscal year
1987 for the six community defender organizations as follows:

Federal Defenders of San Diego,
  Inc., California, Southern ••••••••••••••••• $1,442,393

Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
 Georgia, Northern ••••.••••••••••••••••••                            507,199

Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
 Illinois, Northern ••••••••••••••••••••••••                          819,600

Legal Aid & Defender Assn. of
 Detroit, Federal Defender
 Division, Michigan, Eastern. . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •         850,955

The Legal Aid Society of New York,
 Federal Defender Services Unit,
 New York, Eastern & Southern ••••••••••••.. 2,306,380

Def ender Assn. of Philadelphia,
 Federal Court Division,
 Pennsylvania, Eastern ••.••••••••••••••••••                          670,967

  TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $6,597,494 


     Judge MacBride stated that the Committee will consider
requests for supplemental sustaining grant funds if workload
increases or other factors warrant reconsideration of the
approved sustaining grants.

                               GUIDELINES

      The Committee SUbmitted to the Conference the
following amendments to the Guidelines for the Administration
of the Criminal Justice Act, which were approved by the
Conference:

      1. 	   An amendment to paragraph 2.01 D and the "Model
             Plan for the Composition, Administration and
             Management of the CJA Panel" to permit pro hac
             vice admission of attorneys to the Criminal Justice
             Act panel in exceptional circumstances.



                                     79
     2. 	   An amendment to paragraph 2.03 restricting the
            participation of prosecutors and other law
            enforcement agents in the financial eligibility
            determination.

     3. 	   The addition of a new paragraph 2.18 relating to
            compensation of standby counsel, and the
            redesignation of paragraphs 2.18 and 2.19 as 2.19 and
            2.19.1, respectively.

     4. 	   An amendment to paragraph 2.26 to limit
            compensable travel time for attorneys to those
            hours actually spent in or awaiting transit.

     5. 	   An amendment to paragraph 3.01 relating to
            investigative, expert, and other services requested
            of federal defender organizations by pro se litigants
            and by defendants with retained counsel.


            COMM1TI'EE ON THE ADMINISTRATION 

                 OF THE CRIMINAL LAW 


       Judge John D. Butzner, Jr., Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Criminal Law, presented the
report of the Committee.
                       HABEAS CORPUS

       S. 238, 99th Congress, would reform procedures for
collateral review of criminal judgments. Similar legislation
passed the Senate in 1984 (S. 1763, 98th Congress) but died in
the House.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference voted to endorse section 5 of S. 238, which would
amend 28 U.S.C. 2254(b) to permit an application for a writ of
habeas corpus to be denied on the merits notwithstanding the
failure of the applicant to exhaust the remedies available in
state court. Consideration of section 3 (a proposed amendment
to 28 U.S.C. 2253 to vest in the judges of the courts of appeals
exclusive authority to issue certificates of probable cause for
appeal in habeas corpus proceedings) and section 4 (a proposed
amendment to Rule 22 of the Federal Rules of Appellate
Procedure to create an identical certificate requirement for
appeals by federal prisoners in collateral relief proceedings


                               80
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2255) was deferred by the Conference,
pending a Committee solicitation and evaluation of the views
of the circuit and district court chief judges on these
provisions.
                     COMPUTER FRAUD
       The Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 added a
new section 1030 to title 18 of the Code dealing with computer
fraud. H.R. 930 and H.R. 1001, 99th Congress, would amend
section 1030 to make it an offense to access a computer
without authorization or to use a computer lawfully accessed
for unauthorized purposes.       H.R. 1001, which additionally
provides for the separate offense of accessing a computer or
using a computer for unauthorized purposes by means of a
scheme to defraud, would restrict the offenses it creates by
requiring that something of value (other than the computer)
aggregating $5,000 or more must be obtained as a result of the
unauthorized access or use.
       The     Conference     approved      the    Committee's
recommendation that, in order to take advantage of existing
case law and assist in the administration of the computer fraud
statute, the pending House bills should be amended so that the
new computer fraud offense tracks the language of existing
mail and wire fraud statutes. The Conference also agreed with
the Committee's observation that, while the decision to impose
a $5,000 minimum gain requirement (H.R. 1001) was a
legislative judgment for Congress, the inclusion of such a
requirement would add to the complexity of proof in the
prosecution of a computer fraud offense.
                      DEATH PENALTY
        Numerous bills dealing with capital punishment have
been introduced in the 99th Congress. One of the bills, S. 239,
is the successor to S. 1765, which passed the Senate in the 98th
Congress.

       S. 239 attempts to establish a constitutional procedure
for imposition of the death penalty in conformity with the
decisions of the Supreme Court. During the first stage of a
two-stage trial, the jury or judge would determine the issue of
guilt. Upon a finding of guilty, if the government had filed a
pretrial notice of intent to seek the death penalty specifying
the aggravating factors to be proved, the second or sentencing


                              81
stage would be activated. Aggravating and mitigating factors
for the jury or judge to use as guidance in determining when
the death penalty should be imposed would be set out in the
statute.

        While on the subject matter of capital punishment
legislation the JUdicial Conference generally defers to the
Congress, the Conference did vote to express concern about
the language of S. 239 and encouraged the Committee and the
Administrative Office to work with the Senate Judiciary
Committee on this legislation. The Conference also voted to
approve the Committee's recommendation that S. 239 be
amended to provide a defendant notice prior to trial of any
non-statutory aggravating factors which would be considered
at the sentencing stage of the proceedings to the same extent
and in the same circumstances as notice of statutory
aggravating factors must be provided.

                   EXCLUSIONARY RULE

       S. 237 and H.R. 1126, 99th Congress, would add a new
section to title 18 of the Code to permit the use of illegally
seized evidence in a criminal trial if the evidence were
obtained, with or without a warrant, by a law enforcement
officer acting with a reasonable good faith belief that his
conduct conformed to the Fourth Amendment.            Similar
legislation passed the Senate in the 98th Congress, but no
action was taken in the House.

       The Committee noted that these bills were drafted prior
to the Supreme Court's decision in United States v. Leon, 104 S.
Ct. 3405 (1984), holding that the exclusionary rule will not bar
the use in a criminal trial of evidence obtained by law
enforcement officers acting in reasonable reliance on a search
warrant subsequently found to be invalid.           The Court
established an objective standard for determining the
reasonableness of the officers' reliance on the validity of the
warrant.

       The Committee was of the view that the pending
legislation, insofar as it applies to searches conducted pursuant
to a warrant, is unnecessary in light of Leon and, further, that
whether to extend Leon to other situations should be left to
the courts. The Committee also observed that, while Leon




                              82
adopts an objective standard for determining the
reasonableness of an officer's conduct, S. 237 and H.R. 1126
would additionally require the presence of subjective good
faith in the lawfulness of a search or seizure.

        Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference voted to oppose enactment of S. 237 and H.R.
1126. In the event the Congress were to proceed with
legislation on this subject notwithstanding the objections of the
federal judiciary, the Conference also approved the
Committee's alternative recommendation that the bill be
amended to adopt the objective standard set forth in United
States v. Leon, 104 S. Ct. 3405 (1984).

 COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION OF THE JURY SYSTEM

      Judge T. Emmet Clarie, Chairman of the Committee on
the Operation of the Jury System, presented the report of the
Committee.

              GRAND JURY ORIENTATION FILM

       Judge Clarie reported that the grand jury orientation
film, entitled "The People's Panel", had been completed. The
Committee recommended its use to all district courts, as did
the Conference.      Also upon the recommendation of the
Committee, the Conference formally acknowledged the
contribution of Frank Rothman, Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of MGM/UA Entertainment Company,
and Judge William B. Enright (California, Southern) for their
assistance in the development of this informative and
professional motion picture, produced at virtually no cost to
the federal government.

            AMENDMENTS TO THE JURY SELECTION 

                   AND SERVICE ACT 


       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference proposed the following technical amendments
to the Ju:-y Selection and Service Act:

     1. 	   An amendment to 28 U.S.C. 1866{c)(I) to provide
            that courts may delegate to clerks the function of
            granting temporary excuses from service on the
            grounds    of   "undue   hardship    or   extreme
            inconvenience", and that persons so excused may


                              83
             either be automatically resummoned at the
             conclusion of the excuse period or, if the court's
             jury selection plan so provides, have their names
             reinserted into the qualified wheel.

     2. 	    An amendment to 28 U.S.C. 1863(b)(3) specifically
             to authorize clerks or jury com missioners to
             delegate jury selection functions to non-judicial
             branch personnel such as computer technicians.

     3. 	    An amendment to 28 U.S.C. 1863(b)(6) to limit the
             classes of persons exempted or barred from jury
             service to those in active service in the armed
             forces, members of fire and police departments, and
             federal or state public officers.

     4. 	    An amendment to 28 U.S.C. 1864(a) to eliminate the
             requirement that the clerk or jury commissioner
             prepare an alphabetical list of names drawn from
             the master wheel, and provide instead only that
             courts must have the capacity to generate such an
             alphabetical list.

     5. 	    An addition to the Act authorizing temporary,
             limited experimental use of new selection
             procedures,    notwithstanding     their    technical
             inconsistency with existing statutory provisions.

            AMENDMENTS TO JUROR QUALIFICATION 

                     QUESTIONNAIRE 


        28 U.S.C. 1869(h) requires JUdicial Conference approval
of modifications to juror qualification forms.        Upon the
recommendation of the Committee, the Conference approved a
change from IIOriental" to "Asian/Oriental" in question 10, and
a revision of the sequence of questions 5, 6, and 7.

    IMPLEMENTATION COMMITrEE ON ADMISSION OF 

         ATTORNEYS TO FEDERAL PRACTICE 


      Chief Judge James Lawrence King, Chairman of the
Implementation Committee on Admission of Attorneys to
Federal Practice, presented the final report of the Committee.

       The Committee was appointed pursuant to Conference
resolution in September, 1979 (Conf. Rept., pp. 103-105). As


                                84
successor to the Committee to Consider Standards for
Admission to Practice in the Federal Courts (the Devitt
Committee), the Implementation Committee was directed to
oversee and monitor, on a pilot basis in a selected number of
district courts, programs directed toward improvement of trial
advocacy in the federal courts, including but not limited to
examinations, trial experience requirements, and peer review.
Judge King informed the Conference that the Committee's
final report represented the culmination of six years of work
and 17 meetings of the Committee. Thirteen district courts
participated in the pilot evaluation.

       The    Committee       concluded    that     examination
requirements have contributed significantly to improving the
level of knowledge of federal practice subjects; that trial
experience requirements will prove to be effective, although
the available data are currently insufficient to prove or
disprove their effectiveness; that there is little awareness of
peer review programs, although the Committee considered
them essential in dealing with problems of professional
adequacy; and that student practice should continue to be
encouraged, although there has been too little contact with
student appearances as yet to offer a basis for knowledgeable
comment.

        After extended discussion, the Conference voted to
recommend that federal courts consider programs directed
toward improvement of trial advocacy recommended by the
Devitt and Implementation Committees and developed by the
pilot courts. The Conference discharged the Committee after
agreeing to assign to another Committee responsibility for
receiving information from the courts on their experiences
with admissions and proficiency maintenance programs, for
facilitating the exchange and review of that information, and
for making recommendations to the Conference, as
appropriate, on measures to assist the courts in their efforts.
The Conference also authorized the distribution of the
Committee's final report to federal judges and to interested
persons outside of the judiciary.

          COMMITTEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES

       The Committee on Pacific Territories filed a report
indicating that the Committee had met with representatives of
the Government of American Samoa and will report in March,



                             85
1986 on the question whether certain decisions of the
territory's courts should be reviewable in Article III courts and,
if so, the best means of achieving that objective.

  STANDING COMMITTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL 

         CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS 


       The Standing Committee to Review Circuit Council
Conduct and Disability Orders filed a report indicating that,
since the Committee's last report, several petitions for review
of council affirmations of dismissals of complaints by chief
circuit judges had been dismissed administratively.         The
Committee also decided one case within the jurisdiction of the
Conference, upholding the council's imposition of a private
reprimand upon a bankruptcy judge.

   AD HOC COMMlTTEE ON AMERICAN INNS OF COURT

      Judge Aldon J. Anderson, Chairman of the Ad Hoc
Committee on American Inns of Court, presented the report of
the Committee.
       Judge Anderson reported that in April, 1985, a formal
charter for the American Inns of Court Foundation was issued
by the District of Columbia Government under the District's
Nonprofit Corporation Act. Officers of the Foundation and
members of the Board of Trustees were elected and by-laws
approved. The new president of the Foundation, Georgetown
University School of Law Professor Sherman L. Cohn, was
introduced to the Conference by Judge Anderson. Judge
Anderson will serve as Chairman of the Board of Trustees,
which also includes Judges Susan H. Black and William B.
Enright, Professor Cohn and Professor Peter W. Murphy (also
named Secretary-Treasurer of the Foundation), and Messrs.
Albert I. Moon and Harold G. Christensen. New charters were
awarded the 14 existing Inns of Court by the Foundation.

      In accordance with the Conference's action in March,
1985 (Conf. Rept., p. 34), the Committee will continue to
monitor the growth in the Inns of Court movement and
encourage the foundation of additional Inns.




                               86 

           AD HOC COMMITrEE ON ELECTRONIC 

                  SOUND RECORDING 


       The Ad Hoc Committee on Electronic Sound Recording
filed a report indicating that, to date, 31 district judges and 47
bankruptcy judges have requested the installation of electronic
sound recording equipment as the means of taking all or part of
the record of proceedings in court and/or chambers. The
report also indicated that the Administrative Office is
currently preparing a comprehensive cost/benefit analysis and
evaluation of the electronic sound recording program for
presentation to the Conference in March, 1986.

 CIDEF JUDGE OF COURT OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE AS 

        MEMBER OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 


       H.R. 2183, 99th Congress, would among other things
amend 28 U.S.C. 331 to make the Chief Judge of the Court of
International Trade a member of the Judicial Conference. The
Conference unanimously supported providing membership for
the Chief Judge of the Court of International Trade on the
Judicial Conference and expressed no objection to the
remainder of the bill.

                         RESOLUTIONS

      Noting the death of Judge Albert G. Schatz, a member
of the Conference at the time of his death, the Conference
adopted the following resolution:
            We commemorate and memorialize the 

     late Albert G. Schatz (known to his friends as 

     flDuke"), United States District Judge for the 

     District of Nebraska, having been appointed to 

     that position in May of 1973, serving with 

     distinction until his death on April 30, 1985. 


            Judge Schatz was born in Omaha, 

     Nebraska, on August 4, 1921. He received his 

     BA from the University of Nebraska in 1943 

     and his JD from Creighton University in 1948. 

     He served as a Combat Officer with the U.S. 

     Marine Corps in the Pacific Theatre. 





                              87 

             Judge Schatz served several terms on
     the Eighth Circuit JUdicial Council, and was
     elected by his fellow judges to be the district
     court     representative  to    the   Judicial
     Conference of the United States in 1979, and
     reelected in 1983. In 1980, Chief Justice
     Burger appointed Judge Schatz to the
     Executive Committee of the Conference; he
     also served on the Ad Hoc Committee to
     Monitor Regulations on Electronic Sound
     Recording. He remained a member of both
     the Conference and the Executive Committee
     until his untimely death.

            We all will miss our warm association
     with him. His colleagues respected him as a
     lawyer, as a judge, and as a person. The
     Nation has lost a great colleague. As judges
     we have all lost a great friend.

     Noting the resignation of Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., as
Deputy Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts to become Clerk of the United States Supreme
Court, the Conference also adopted the following resolution:

            The JUdicial Conference of the United
     States expresses its sincere appreciation to
     Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., for more than 34 years
     of dedicated service to the Federal
     Judiciary.       Mr.    Spaniol   joined   the
     Administrative Office as an attorney with the
     Procedural Studies and Statistics Division in
     1951 and later served as Chief of the Division
     from 1965 to 1972. Mr. Spaniol was then
     appointed Assistant Director for Legal,
     Legislative, and Special Projects prior to his
     appointment as Deputy Director in 1977.

            The Judicial Conference acknowledges
     Joseph Spaniol's contribution to the work of
     this body in his capacity as Secretary to the
     Standing Committee on Rules of Practice and
     Procedure and Advisory Committees on
     Appellate, Bankruptcy, Civil and Criminal
     Rules; his service and attendance at meetings
     of the Judicial Conference since 1957; and his


                             88
     many contributions to the Administrative 

     Office of the U.S. Courts where he served six 

     Directors: Henry P. Chandler, Warren Olney, 

     III, Ernest C. Friesen, Jr., Rowland F. Kirks, 

     William E. Foley, and L. Ralph Mecham. 


            We the members of the Conference 

     extend to him our appreciation for his 

     devotion to the work of the Federal court 

     system.    Our best wishes on his new 

     appointment go with him. 


                PRETERMISSION OF TERMS

       The Conference, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, approved the
pretermission of terms of the United States courts of appeals
during the calendar year 1986 at the following locations: at
Asheville, North Carolina in the Fourth Circuit and at
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and Wichita, Kansas in the Tenth
Circuit.

           RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

       The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for
legislative or administrative action.


                                       Warren E. Burger




                                       Chief Justice
November 20, 1985                      of the United States




                             89 

                                                 INDEX 


                                                                                                     Page
Administrative Office, U. S. Courts
   Code of Conduct for Employees of the •••••••••••••••••                                             57
   Drug Aftercare ••••.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                               62
   Judicial Business of the Courts. . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • •                     42
   Report of the Director. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                42
   Sentencing Commission Appropriations. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                              60
Admission of Attorneys to Federal Practice;
   Com mit tee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                 84
Alcoholism Treatment (see Drug Aftercare)
Appellate Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        58
Appointments and Payments, Criminal Justice Act. •• • • •••• •                                        75
Appropriations (see Budget)
Arbitration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    53
Attorney General:
   Task Force on Court Security. • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • •                      45
Automation:
     Pi ve-year plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      45
     Oversight of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     45
Bankruptcy Rules •...•••...•.••...•••..•.•.••..•••...•.                                               66
Bankruptcy System:
   Bankruptcy Judgeship Recommendations •••••••••••••••                                               64
   Commi ttee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                  64
   Interim Model Local Rule '............................                                             65
   References to bankruptcy judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                         65
Budget:
   Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1987 •••••••••••••••••••                                            53
   Committee on; Report of. . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                   53
   Court Security Budget Estimates. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                         54
   Supplemental Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1986 •••••••                                           53
Budget Requests - Federal Public Defenders.... •• •• •• •••• •                                        76
Cases Cited:
   United States v. Leon................................                                              82
Chief Justices; Conference of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                  52
Claims Court; Travel Regulations for Judges of the. • • • • • • • •                                   46
Codes of Conduct:
   Activities of the Committee. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                     55
   Advisory Committee on; Report of ••••••••••••••••••••                                              55
     Applicability of .....•.........................•....                                            57
     Staff Attorneys.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          56
  Disqualification in Protracted Litigation •••••••••••••••                                          56
  Form for Notice of Disqualification....................                                            57
Community Defender Organizations - Grant Requests. • • • • • •                                       78
Commuting Expenses of Judges •••••••••••••.••••••••••••                                              44
                                                  91
Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 •.•.•.•••.••••••                                              60
    Computer Fraud ....••...••...........•••...••.•....                                               81 

    Criminal Fine Collection............................                                              61
    Criminal Justice Act; Compensation rates. . • • • . • • • • . • • •                               76
    Drug Aftercare •....•.•. . • . . . • • . . . . • . . . . • • . • . • • . • . . •                  62
Computer Assisted Legal Research ••••••••••••.••••••••••                                              45
Computer Fraud ........................................                                               81 

Court Administration:
   Automation ........................................                                                45
     Arbitra tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
    Career Law Clerks ..................................                                              48
    Committee on; Report of. . • • • . • • • . • • • • • • . . • • • . . • • • • • •                  44
     Court Reporters ..•••.••••••••••••..••••••••••.•.••.                                             47
    Court Security. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         45
    Diversity in Wrongful Death Cases. • •• • • • ••• •• • • • • • • • • •                            49
    Frivolous Litigation ..•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                            46
    Judicial Review of Federal Martime Orders.. .•••••• •• ••                                         51
    Product Liability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          52
    Qualification Standards for Secretaries. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                          48
    Records Disposition Program and Schedules.. • • • • • • • • . • •                                 46
    Registration of Foreign Judgments ••••••••.•••••••••••                                            50
    Removal Jurisdiction ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                             50
    Report of Matters Held Under Advisement. • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                52
    Senior District Judge Chambers. • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • •                       47
    State Court Liaison in Federal Rulemaking Process. . • • • .                                      52
    Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges ••.••••.•••••                                          46
Court Reporters ..•••...•.• '. • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . •                  47
    Financial Disclosure reporting •.•••••••••••••••••••••• 55
Court Security Committee                          •.••.••••••••••••••. 46,54
Courts of Appeals:
    Pretermission of Terms ••..•••••••••••••••••••••••••• 89
Cri minal Fine Collection. • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • 61
Criminal Justice Act:
    Appointments and Payments. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 75
    Budget Requests - Federal Public Defenders. . . • • •• • • • • • 76
    Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 75
    Community Defender Organizations - Grant Requests. • • • 78
    Guidelines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . • . . . . . 79
Criminal Law:
    Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 80
   Computer Fraud •••.••••••••.••••.•••••••••••••••••.                                                81
   Death Penalty. • • . . . • • . . • . • • • • . • . . • . • . • • . • • • • . • • • . • •           81
   Exclusionary Rule • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • •            82
   Habeas Corpus. . • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • •           80
Death Penalty •..••...••••.••.••••••••••••.••••••••••••                                               81
Design Guide, U. S. Courts ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                             47

                                                    92
Disqualifica tion:
     Form for Notice of . . . . . • . • . . . • . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • . .        57
     Protracted Litigation. . • • • • • • • • . . • . • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • • • •          56
Diversi ty Jurisdiction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       49
Drug Aftercare. . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      62
Electronic Sound Recording:
   Ad Hoc Committee on; Report of. •• • . •• ••••••••• • ••• .•                                    87
Ethics (see Judicial Ethics)
Exclusionary Rule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       82
Executive Committee Actions:
   Bankruptcy; Interim Model Local Rule •..•••••••••.•.••                                          65
   Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 •••••••••.•••                                           60
   Magistrates Positions; North Dakota...................                                          71
Federal Public Defenders:
     Budget Requests . . . . • . • • • . . • • . . . . • • • • • . • • • • . • . • . • • • •       76
Financial Disclosure (see Judicial Ethics)
Firearms, Carrying of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         64
Five-year Plan for Automation... •••• • ••• ••• •••• ••• • • . .• •                                45
Foreign Judgments; Registration of • . • • • • • . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • •                   50
Frivolous Litigation ....................................                                          46 

Grand Jury Orientation Film. • • • . • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • .               83
Grant Requests - Community Defender Organizations. • • • • • •                                     78
Guidelines; Criminal Justice Act .•••..•...•••••••.••...••                                         79
Habeas Corpus. . • . . . • . . . . . • • • . . • . • . • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . • . . •     80
Inns of Court:
    Ad Hoc Committee on; Report of.. •• . ••• •• • • ••• •••••••                                   86
Intercircuit Assignments:
    Committee on; Report of. . • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • •               57
International Trade; U. S. Court of ••••.•.•..•••••.•....•.                                        87
Judges:
    Bankruptcy:
      Referencesto •••.••••••••••••••••••••••.•••.••••••                                           65
      Travel Regulations for .••••••••••••.•••••••••••••••                                         46
    Claims Court; Travel Regulations for. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                        46
    Commuting Expenses of . • • • • • • • • • • . . . • . • • • • • • . • • • . • • •              44
    Senior:
        Chambers of • • • . • • . . • • • • . • • • . . . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • •    47
       Military Retired Pay; Receipt of ••••••••••••••••••••                                       44
       Sentencing Commission ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                          60
     Travel:
       Actual Expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        43
        Regulations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   46
Judicial Branch:
   Actual Travel Expenses for Judges. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                      43
   Committee on; Report of............ •••• •• ••••••• •• .•                                       43
   Commuting Expenses for Judges.. • •• •• • • • ••• • •• •• • •• • •                              44
   Receipt of Military Retired Pay for Judges. • • • •• • • • •• • •                               44

                                                  93
Judicial Business of the Courts. . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . • . . • . . • . . .                          42
Judicial Conference of the U.S.:
     Call of. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
     Membership of • . . . . . . . . . . . • .. . • • . . . . . . . . • . . . • • • • . • • . .               87
     Release of Action. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   89
Judicial Ethics:
   Activities of the Committee.. •• • •• • . . .• .• .• • •• • . . . . . .                                    55
   Committee on; Report of.. • • • • •• • • • • • . • • • • •• • •• •• ••. •                                  55
   Reporting Form and Instructions •••..•.•.•••••••••••.•                                                     55
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation:
     Report of . . • . • . • • • . . . • . • • • • • • • • • . . . • . • • • • • • . • • • • • . .            43
Judiciary Salary Plan ...................................                                                     48 

Jurisdiction:
    Diversi ty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          49
    Registration of Foreign Judgments .•••••.•.••••••••••.                                                    50
     Removal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             50
Jury System:
   Committee on; Report of...... • • ••• ••••••••••••• ••••• 83
   Grand Jury Orientation Film.. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 83
   Jury Selection and Service Act; Amendments to • • • • • • • • • 83
   Qualification Questionnaire; Amendments to. • • • • • . • • . • . 84
Justice; Department of ..••••••••••••••••••••••••• 60,61,62
Justices:
   Actual Travel Expenses •. • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 43
   Travel Regulations for. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • 46
Law Clerks; Career. • • • • . • • • . . . • • • • . • . . . . . . • • . . . • . . . .. • . .                  48
Legislation:
   Commuting Expenses of Judges •.•.•.•..••.•••••••..••                                                       44
   Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 •••••••••••••                                                      60
      Computer Fraud. .. . .. . . . .•• . . . . . ... .•.•. .. .... • •• . ..                                 81
      Criminal Fine Collection.. •• • •• ••• ••••••••••••• ••••••                                             61
      Death Penalty... .......... .................... .. ...                                                 81 

      Disqualification in Protracted Litigation •••••••••••••.•                                               56
      Diversity in Wrongful Death Cases. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . •                              49
     Drug Aftercare .....................................                                                     62
      Exclusionary Rule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  82
      Habeas Corpus. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                80
     JUdicial Conference Membership. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                87
     Jury Selection and Service Act; Amendments to • • • • • • • • •                                          83
     Magistrates 70 Years of Age and Older. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                   66
     Maritime Orders; JUdicial Review of • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                51
     Military Retired Pay; Receipt of ..................... •                                                 44
      Product Liability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                52
     Registration of Foreign Judgments ••••••••••••••••••••                                                   50
     Removal Jurisdiction ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                    50
     Rules Enabling Acts •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                    58
     Travel Expenses for Justices and Judges. . • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                   43

                                                       94
Magistrates:
  Committee on; Report of.. . . •• • . • . • •• • • . • • •. •• . • • • •• •                     66
  Legal Assistants in Social Security Cases; Use of .••••.••                                     67
  Magistrates Posi tionsj Changes in •.••••••••.•.•.•••••.                                       67
  Magistrates 70 years of age or older •••••••••••••••••••                                       66
  Travel Regulations for. • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • . . • . . ••             46
Maritime Orders; JUdicial Review of......................                                        51 

Marshals Service ................................... 45,54 

Matters under Advisement; Report of •••••••••••..•••••••                                         52
Memorial Resolution; Judge Albert G. Schatz .•..•••.••••••                                       87
Military Retired Pay; Receipt of .........................                                       44
Multidistrict Litigation:
   JUdicial Panel on; Report of •••.••••••••••••••••••••••                                       43
Pacific Territories; Committee on; Report of • • • • • • . • . • . • • •                         85
Parole Commission. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       63
Pretermission of Terms, Courts of Appeals ..•.......••••••                                       89
Pretrial Services:
     Act of 1982 •••.••.•••...•.••••.•.•.••.••••.••••••••                                        62
   Officers; Carrying Firearms ..•...•...•.•••.•••.••••••                                        64
Probation System:
     Carrying of Firearms •••••••.••..•.•••••.......•••.. .                                      64 

     Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • . • . • . • • • • • • •            59
     Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 •••••.•.•..••                                       60
     Criminal Fine Collection. . • • •• •• • . • . • • • •• • •• • . • • • •• • •                61
     Drug Aftercare ...•...................•.............                                        62 

     Sentencing Insti tutes •.••••••.•....•••••.••.••.•.•.••                                     60
Product Liability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . .   52
Records Disposi tion ....................................                                        46
Release of Conference Action ••••••••••••••••••••••.••••                                         89
Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders:
   Committee on; Report of. • • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • • . . • • . . • . . . •              86
Rules:
     Appellate ....................................... 58,80 

   Bankruptcy; Interim model local. • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • . • • . . . •                  65
   Practice and Procedure
     Committee on; Report of • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • •• • •                58
   Rules Enabling Acts •••••••••••••.•••••••••••••••••••                                         58
   State Court Liaison in Rulemaking Process •••••••••••••                                       52
Schatz, Albert G., Memorial Resolution ••••••••••.••••••••                                       87
Secretaries; Qualification Standards for. • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • •                     48
Security ..............................................                                          45 

     Budget Estimates for. • • . . . • . . • • ••••• • • • •• . •. . . ••. •• •                  54
     Court Committee ................................... 46,55 

Sentencin~:        .
   CommiSSlon ..........•........••.•...........•.....                                           60
   Institutes ..........................................                                         60
Shipping Act of 1984. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      51

                                                95
Social Security Cases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  67 

Space for Senior Judges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     47 

Spaniol, Joseph F. Jr., Resolution in Appreciation. . . . • . . . • • .                                      88 

Speedy Trial Act of 1982 .••••••••••..•.•••••••.••..•.•..                                                    62 

Staff Attorneys; Code of Conduct for. • • . • . • • • • • • • • . . • • . • .                                56 

State Courts: 

    Liaison in Rulemaking Process. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                             52 

    Product Liability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 52 

Travel Expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               43 

Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges ••.•••••••••••••                                                  46 

Uni ted States Attorneys. . . • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • . • • • • • • • • . . • • • •                    61 





                                                  '{ us, GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE'   1965 - 618-596 - 814/40343




                                                96 

