REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 


           OF THE 


JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 


      UNITED STATES 



        March 12-13, 1986 


       SPECIAL SESSION 

         J nne 30, 1986 





                           _I

        Washington, D.C.
             1986
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 


   UNITED STATES COURTS 


       L. Ralph Mecham 

           Director 

          REPORT

             of the

    PROCEEDINGS OF THE 


JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 


      UNITED STATES 




         March 12-13, 1986




         Washington, D.C.
               1986
  THE JUDJCIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331
§ 331. JUDIClAL CoNI'ERENCEOFlHEUNITED STATES

   The Chief JIlStk:e of the United States shall summon annually the chief judge of each
judicial circuit. and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at such
time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such confer·
ence which shall be known as the Judicial Conference of the United States. Special ses·
sions of the confi:rence may be called by the Chief JllStice at sucb times and places as he
may designate.
   The district judge to be summoaed from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the cir­
cuit and district judps of the circnit at the annual judicial confi:rence of the circuit held
pursuant to section 333 of this title and shall serve as a member of the conference for
three successive ,.an. el'CCpt that in the year following the enactment of this amended
leCtion the judps in the tim. fourth. semlth. and teDtb circnits shall choose a district
judge to serve for ODe year, the judps in the second, fifth, and eiJhth circuits shall
choose a district judge to serve for two years and the judps in the third, sinh, ninth. and
District of Columbia circnits shall choose a district judge to serve for three years.
   If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judps of the circuit
is unable to attend. the Chief JIlStice may summon any other circnit or district judge from
sucb circuit. Every judge summoaed shall attend and, unless ezc:usec1 by the Chief JIlStk:e.
shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to the needs of bis
circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of which the administration of justice in
the courts of the United States may be improved.
   The Conference shall mate a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
courts of the United States and prepare plans for usignmeDt of judps to or from circuits
or districts where necessary. It shall also submit sugations and recommend.tions to the
various courts to promote uniformity of manapmeDt procedures aad the expeditious con­
duct of court business. The Conference is authorized to aerdse the authority provided in
.:lion 372(c) of this title as the Confi:rence. or throaJb • Itanding committee. If the
Coaference elects to establisb • Itanding committee, It shall be appointed by the Chief
Justice and all petitions for Min shall be renewed by that committee. The Coaference
or the standing committee m.y bold beariDp, ute sworn testimoay, issue subpoenas and
subpoenas duces tecum, and mike necessary and .ppropriate orders in the eD!l'cise of its
authority. Subpoenas and lubpoenas duces tecum shall be issued by the clerk of the Su­
pnme Court or by the clerk of any court of appeals, at the dinctioa of the Chief Justice
or his designee and under the seal of the court, and shall be Iel"nId in the manner pro.
Yided in nile 45(c) of the Pederal Rules of C'tril Procedure for subpoenas and lubpoenas
duces _ _ issued OIl behalf of the United States or an officer or any a,eacy thereof.
The Conference m.y also prescribe and modify rales for the earcile of the authority pro­
mod in section 372(e) of this title. AD jadiciaI officers aad employees of the United
States mall promptly carry into effect all orders of the Judicial Confi:rence or the stand·
lag committee established pursuant to this section.
   The Conference aball also carry on • CIOIltinIlOlll ltIidy of the cperatiOD aad effect of the
peral rales of pnc:tice aDd procedure DOW or hereIfter in use as prescribed by the Suo
pnme Court IIr the other enurtI of the United States punuant to law. Such chanps in
and 8dditiaDa to thole rales as the Confermce m.y deem desirable to promote limplidty
Ia procedure, fairD_ Ia admiaistratioD.. the jut detfll'lDiDatiOD of 1itip.tiOD; aad the elim­
laatiOD of unjutiflable n:peDIe and delay shall be recommended by the Confermce from
time to time to the Sapnme Court IIr Its ClJlllklcratioa aad adoptloa. modification or re­
jecdoa, Ia ICCO!dance with I.....
  The Attomey GeaeraI aball, upon request of the Chief Justice, report to sucb ODIlference
GIlmatters relatIa, to the busiDea of the _a1 courts of the United States, with partic.
uIar refenace to CUll to wbIcb the UaJted States is • party.
  The Olief Jutir:e   .a11 submit to   eaa.-  an annual report of the proceeclinp of the
JudidaI Cor.lereace and its recommendations for 1eglaIation.


                                               iv
                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS 


                REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

            JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES 


                                      March 12-13, 1986


                                                                                                  Page

Call of the Conference. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1

Report of the Director of the Administrative 

   Office of the United States Courts ••••••••••••••••••••                                          4

      Judicial Business of the Courts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                    4

      "Gramm-Rudman-Hollings" Budget Cuts 

        in the Administrative Office. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                     5

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • •                       5

Committee on the Judicial Branch. • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • •                     6

Committee on Court Administration... .• •• ••••• •••• •• •• . •                                     6

   Arbitration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6

   United States Courts Design Guide 

      Amendment - Federal Public Defenders. • • • • • • • • • • • • •                               7

   Relocation Allowances. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •               7

   Place of Holding Court. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • •              8

   Regulations for Debt Collection. • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • •                     8

   Court Interpreters Act. • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • •              9

     Removal Jurisdiction ................................                                         10 

     Court Reporters •••••••.•...••.•..•••••.•.•........•                                          10 

     Government Contracts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •             10 

     Civil RICO Suits ...........................•........                                         11 

     Federal Jurisdiction Under International 

       Child Abduction Convention ••••.•••••••••••••••••••                                         12 

     Automation .•••••••••••..••.•••••••••••••••.•••••••                                           13 

     Frivolous I.Jitigation .................................                                      13 

  Fiscal Year 1987 Budget Request for 

    Supporting Personnel ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                            13 

Committee on the Budget .. • • •• •• • • ••• •••• •• • • • • • •• •• •• •                          14 

  Supplemental Appropriations for the 

        Fiscal Year 1986 ..................................                                        14 

   "Gramm-Rudman-Hollings" Budget Cuts. • • • •• ••• •• • ••••                                     15 

Judicial Ethics Committee ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                           17 

   Activities of the Committee. . . • • • • • • • • • . . . • • • • • • . • . • .                  17 

Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct......... •• • ••• ••                                        18 

   Activities of the Committee.... •• •• •• ••••••••• •• •• • ••                                   18 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments... ••••• •• .• •• ••• ••                                     18 


                                                v
Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure ••••....••••                                                  18 

     Rules Amendments. .. .. • .. • . .. .. . .. . . .. .. . .. . . • . .. .. .. .. . .. . • • . . . .     18 

Committee on the Administration 

  of the Probation System. • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • . •                       19 

    Sentencing Institutes •••.•.••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                   19 

    Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 •••••••••••                                                    19 

    Criminal Fine Collection. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                          20 

     Restitution. .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . .. . . . . . .       20 

Committee of the Administration 

  of the Bankruptcy System ••.•••••••••••••••.•••••••••                                                    21 

     Revised Guidelines for Chapter 13 

       Administration. . . . . . . . .. . . .. .. . .. .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . ..          21 

    Noticing Guidelines. . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . ..               21 

    Bankruptcy Estate Administration.. •• • .••• ••••••• •••                                               21 

Committee on the Administration 

  of the Federal Magistrates System. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                               22 

     Changes in Magistrate Positions. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                              22 

Committee to Implement the 

  Criminal Justice Act ......................................                                              28 

     Appointments and Payments. • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • •                              28 

     Budget Requests - Federal Public 

            Defenders . . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • .. . • • • • • • • • . • • .. • • • • • .. . •       28 

    Criminal Justice Act Amendments. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                   29 

Committee on the Administration of the 

  Criminal Law.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               29 

         Habeas Corpus. . . • . .. • • . • . . . . . .. .. .. • • .. .. . . . .. • .. • .. • • .. .. . .   29 

      Electronic Surveillance •••••.•.•••••••.•.••••••••.•                                                 30 

      Grand Jury Secrecy.. .. . • • . .. • • • • • .. • .. . • .. • .. • .. • • • • .. • • • .. •          31 

      Bribes and Gratuities Act of 1985 •••.••••••••••.••••                                                31 

      Bail Reform Act Amendments ••••.•••••••••••••••••                                                    32 

Committee on the Operation of the Jury System. • • • • • • • • • • .                                       33 

   Model Grand Jury Charge •••••••••••••••...•••••••••.                                                    33 

Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct 

   and Disability Orders •••••••••••••.•.••••••••••••••••                                                  33 

Committee on the Bicentennial of the 

   Consti tution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           33 

Ad Hoc Committee on American Inns of Court.. • • •••• • • • • •                                            33 

Ad Hoc Committee on Electronic Sound Recording. • • • • • • • • •                                          34 

Memorial Resolution. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 34 

Elections. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       36 

Pretermission of Terms of the
   Courts of Appeals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 37 

Release of Conference Action •••••••••••••••••.•.••••.••                                                   37 





                                                 vi
                 REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

                 OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 

                     OF THE UNITED STATES 


                       March 12-13, 1986 


       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened
on March 12, 1986, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of
the United States issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and continued in
session on March 13. The Chief Justice presided, and the
following members of the Conference were present:

First Circuit:

       Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
       Chief Judge Juan M. Perez-Gimenez, District of Puerto
              Rico

Second Circuit:

       Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
       Chief Judge Jack B. Weinstein, Eastern District of New
              York

Third Circuit:

       Chief Judge Ruggero J. Aldisert
       Chief Judge Murray M. Schwartz, District of Delaware

Fourth Circuit:

       Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
       Judge Frank A. Kaufman, District of Maryland

Fifth Circuit:

       Chief Judge Charles Clark
       Judge Adrian G. Duplantier, Eastern District of
              Louisiana

Sixth Circuit:

       Chief Judge Pierce Lively
       Chief Judge Robert M. McRae, Jr., Eastern District of
              Tennessee
Seventh Circuit:

      Chief Judge Walter J. Cummings
      Chief Judge Frank J. McGarr, Northern District of
             Illinois

Eighth Circuit:

       Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
       Chief Judge John F. Nangle, Eastern District of
              Missouri

Ninth Circuit:

       Chief Judge James R. Browning
       Chief Judge Robert J. McNichols, Eastern District of
              Washington

Tenth Circuit:

       Chief Judge William J. Holloway, Jr.
       Chief Judge Sherman G. Finesilver, District of Colorado

Eleventh Circuit:

       Chief Judge John C. Godbold
       Chief Judge Anthony A. Alaimo, Southern District of
              Georgia*

District of Columbia Circuit:

       Chief Judge Spottswood W. Robinson, III
       Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District of
       Columbia

Federal Circuit:

       Chief Judge Howard T. Markey




* 	 Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge
        James Lawrence King of the Southern District of
        Florida, who was unable to attend.


                                2
       Circuit Judges Collins J. Seitz, Otto R. Skopil, Jr., and
Gerald B. Tjoflat; Senior Circuit Judge John D. Butzner, Jr.;
District Judges Robert E. DeMascio and John H. Pratt; and
Senior District Judges T. Emmet Clarie, Edward T. Gignoux,
and Thomas J. MacBride attended all or some sessions of the
Conference.

       Diana Waterman, General Counsel of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, attended the Conference briefly and
spoke on matters pending in the Congress of interest to the
judiciary.

      The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable
Edwin Meese 3rd, addressed the Conference on matters of
mutual interest to the Department of Justice and the
Conference.

       L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative
Office of the United States Courts, attended the sessions of
the Conference, as did James E. Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director;
Karen K. Siegel, Special Assistant to the Deputy Director;
William J. Weller, Legislative Affairs Officer; Daniel R.
Cavan, Deputy Legislative Affairs Officer; William R. Burchill,
Jr., General Counsel; and Deborah H. Kirk, Chief, Office of
Audit and Review. A. Leo Levin and Charles W. Nihan,
Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center,
and Douglas D. MacFarland, Deputy Administrative Ass~stant
to the Chief Justice, also attended the sessions of the
Conference. Richard Schickele, Staff Counsel to the United
States Supreme Court, was also present.
      The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Professor
A. Leo Levin, presented a report on the activities of the
Center.




                              3

               REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR 

             OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

             OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 


       The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, L. Ralph Mecham, submitted to the Conference
a brief report on the judicial business of the courts during the
calendar year 1985. The Conference authorized its immediate
release.

            JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

       Mr. Mecham reported that during the calendar year
ended December 31, 1985, there were 2,246 appeals filed in the
United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, an
increase of nearly 52 percent over filings in 1984. During the
year, the court disposed of 1,824 appeals, 69 percent more than
in the previous year. On December 31, 1985, there were 1,379
appeals pending. In the other 12 courts of appeals, there were
33,880 appeals filed, an increase of three percent over the
32,964 appeals filed in 1984. The courts disposed of 32,626
appeals, three percent above the previous year, but 1,254
fewer than the number filed. As a result, the number of
appeals pending in the regional courts of appeals on December
31, 1985, increased five percent to 25,676.

       In the United States district courts, there were 278,793
civil cases docketed in 1985, a seven percent increase over the
previous year. The district courts disposed of five percent
more civil cases in 1985, but the 274,253 terminations fell
short of filings by 4,540, resulting in an increase of almost two
percent in the pending caseload. On December 31, 1985, there
were 251,177 civil cases pending in the district courts.

       Criminal cases filed in the district courts in 1985 r.ose
to 40,974, an increase of six percent over 1984. There were
38,642 criminal cases terminated, four percent more than the
previous year, but still below the number of cases filed. The
number of criminal cases pending on the dockets of the district
courts rose to 23,791 on December 31, 1985, an increase of
nearly 11 percent.
       During the year ended December 31, 1985, there were
412,431 bankruptcy petitions filed in the district courts, an
increase of more than 18 percent over the previous year.
Nearly 12 percent more petitions were terminated in 1985 than


                               4
in 1984, but the 350,507 dispositions fell far short of new
filings. On December 31, 1985, there were 660,797 bankruptcy
petitions pending, an increase of more than ten percent.
       Mr. Mecham also reported that on March 11, 1986, there
were 11 vacancies among the 168 judgeship positions
authorized for the United States courts of appeals, 43
vacancies among the 575 authorized judgeship positions in the
United States district courts, and two vacancies on the United
States Court of International Trade.
       "GRAMM-RUDMAN-HOLLINGS" BUDGET CUTS
            IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

       Director Mecham reported that, in response to Public
Law 99-177, the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 ("Gramm-Rudman-Hollings"), he had
adopted a series of reductions in expenditures by the
Administrative Office of 4.5 percent, or approximately
$1,300,000, for the remainder of the fiscal year 1986. The
Administrative Office will operate at less than authorized
staff; incentive awards and quality step increases have been
frozen; funds available for temporary employment and
overtime have been reduced; travel allocations have been
reduced by a factor of 15 percent; all training has been
eliminated except in emergency situations; and all controllable
tenant alterations, contract awards, and equipment and
furniture purchases have been deferred for the remainder of
the fiscal year.
      Mr. Mecham further advised the Conference that 17
new positions had been cut from the agency's fiscal year 1987
budget request, and studies were under way to determine
whether additional cuts were feasible.
                  JUDICIAL PANEL ON 

                MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION 


       A written statement filed with the Conference by the
JUdicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation indicated that in the
six-month period ended December 31, 1985, the Panel had
acted on 172 civil actions pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407. Of that
number, 133 actions were centralized for consolidated pretrial
proceedings, including 74 tag-along cases. The Panel denied
transfer of 39 actions.


                              5
       Since its creation in 1968, the Panel has transferred
14,696 civil actions for centralized pretrial proceedings in
carrying out its statutory responsibilities.
          COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

       The Committee on the Judicial Branch filed a report
indicating that favorable action had occurred in the Congress
on three matters affecting judicial salaries and benefits: Public
Law 99-190, making further continuing appropriations for the
fiscal year 1986, effected amendments to the Federal Salary
Act of 1967 to make it easier politically for needed salary
adjustments to be implemented without the necessity of
affirmative congressional action; Public Law 99-234, the
Federal Civilian Employee Contractor Travel Expenses Act of
1985, amended 28 U.S.C. 456(a) to permit Article III judges to
receive reimbursement for travel expenses at rates or in
amounts which the Director of the Administrative Office
establishes in regulations approved by the Judicial Conference;
and prospects have increased for enactment of legislation to
improve judicial survivors' annuities by House passage in
December, 1985 of H.R. 3570, the proposed JUdicial
Improvements Act of 1985.
         COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

      Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, a member of the
Committee on Court Administration, presented the report of
the Committee.
                        ARBITRATION

       As the Conference was advised at its last session
(September 1985 Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 53), ten courts are
currently participating in the court-ordered arbitration pilot
program. Since 1978, when the first arbitration programs
began operating in the federal courts, this experiment has been
conducted through the process of "authorization by
appropriation", i.e., money to run the programs has been
appropriated by the Congress, but the programs themselves
have not been statutorily authorized by the House and Senate
JUdiciary Committees.
     At the request of the Chairman of the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Courts, Civil Liberties, and the
Administration of Justice, the Administrative Office drafted

                               6
legislation substantively authorizing the present experimental
arbitration program. The Conference approved the draft
legislation.
  UNITED STATES COURTS DESIGN GUIDE AMENDMENT ­
            FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS 


       Since the adoption by the Judicial Conference in March,
1984 of the United States Courts Design Guide (Conf. Rpt., p.
8), problems have been encountered in providing adequate
branch office facilities for federal public defenders. The
Conference approved a revision of Chapter 12 of the Guide
(IIFederal Public Defenders") to correct this matter.

                RELOCATION ALLOWANCES
       Employees of the judiciary are eligible for relocation
allowances under Chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code,
and regulations of the General Services Administration. Under
28 U.S.C. 604{a)(7), the Administrative Office pays transferred
and certain newly-appointed officers and employees of the
judiciary for travel and other expenses incident to relocation.

       The Conference approved general guidelines governing
the payment of employee relocation allowances. Under the
guidelines:
      1. 	   Judges appointed by the President are
             entitled to certain relocation allowances
             upon assuming the judicial office (5 U.S.C.
             5723).

      2. 	   Any government employee transferred to
             a permanent pOSition in the judicial branch
             is eligible for relocation allowances,
             provided that the employee agrees in
             writing to remain in government service
             for one year (5 U.S.C. 5724(0) and the
             chief judge of the receiving court certifies
             that the transfer is !lin the interest of the
             Government" (5 U.S.C. 5724(a».
      3. 	   Employees are generally ineligible for
             relocation   allowances     upon    initial
             appointment, but may be reimbursed for
             relocation expenses incurred as the result


                              7
                of a judge's change of official duty station
                during the term of the appointment,
                provided that the employee signs the one­
                year service agreement required by law (5
                U.S.C. 57240».

       4. 	     JUdicial branch personnel, including judges
                taking senior status, who relocate
                primarily for their own convenience and at
                their own request, may not be reimbursed
                for relocation expenses (5 U.S.C.
                5724(h».      Staff members required to
                relocate to retain their positions would be
                eligible for relocation assistance, provided
                the one-year service agreements are
                signed.

       5. 	     Contract relocation services authorized
                (but not required) by 5 U.S.C. 5724c will
                not be available to judicial branch
                employees because of the cost of
                providing such services.

                  PLACE OF HOLDING COURT

       Upon the recommendations of the District of South
Carolina, the JUdicial Council of the Fourth Circuit, and the
Committee, the Conference voted to recommend the creation
of a new division in the District of South Carolina consisting of
Beaufort and Jasper counties, with Beaufort designated as the
place of holding court. The Committee noted that the County
Council of Beaufort County has agreed to deed or lease,
without charge to the United States, the Beaufort County
Courthouse as a suitable location for the federal court.

              REGULATIONS FOR DEBT COLLECTION

       The Conference approved regulations to implement the
Debt Collection Act of 1982 (5 U.S.C. 5514, amended by Public
Law 97-365).    The regulations establish a procedure for
collection by means of salary offset of debts owed the United
States by government employees, including all judicial branch
officers and employees whose salaries are disbursed by the
Administrative Office, except Article III judges.




                                 8
                 COURT INTERPRETERS ACT

       The Court Interpreters Act, 28 U.S.C. 1827-1828,
provides that any person appearing in federal court who does
not speak English well enough to comprehend the proceedings
or who is speech and/or hearing impaired, should be provided
with a certified interpreter or, if no certified interpreter is
available, with an otherwise qualified interpreter as
determined by the presiding judicial officer. The law requires
the Director of the Administrative Office to certify
interpreters, and fix their salaries and fees. All fees for
interpretation of proceedings arising out of criminal or civil
actions initiated by the United States are paid by the court.

       The cost of language certification is extremely high, in
excess of $120,000 per language for materials development,
plus test administration expenses. The need for interpreters in
federal court for languages other than Spanish is modest, with
only one-third of one percent of the docketable events needing
interpretation in other languages. Accordingly, the Director
presently certifies only Spanish/English interpreters, although
he also recognizes interpreters for the speech and hearing
impaired certified for legal skills by the Registry of
Interpreters for the Deaf.
       At its September, 1982 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 73), the
Conference recommended that, based upon costs and
infrequency of use, Congress should amend the ~ourt
Interpreters Act to give the Director the discretion to limit
the languages for which he will establish certification
procedures. The Conference reaffirmed its September, 1982
resolution.
       S. 1853, 99th Congress, would maintain the same rights
to an interpreter as are provided under current law, but
otherwise change substantially the Court Interpreters Act.
Among other things, the bill would require the use of certified
interpreters in grand jury proceedings, require the certification
within one year of eight additional specified languages, and
require the Director to evaluate the performance of
interpreters, both certified and non-certified.

       The Conference voted to support S. 1853 to the extent
that it would extend to grand jury proceedings the use of
certified interpreters, where reasonably available at the site.
The Conference opposed the remainder of the bill as


                               9
unworkable, unnecesssary, and tremendously expensive. For
example, the cost of development and test administration for
the certification of eight additional languages alone could
exceed $2,000,000.

                  REMOVAL JURISDICTION
       At its session in September, 1985 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 50­
51),    the    Conference      endorsed     the   Committee's
recommendation that 28 U.S.C. 1441(a) should be amended to
eliminate the derivative jurisdiction doctrine. Two additional
amendments to section 144I(a) proposed by the Committee at
this session, to permit removal by "any defendant" and to
provide that for removal purposes the citizenship of fictitious
defendants shall be disregarded, were disapproved by the
Conference.

                    COURT REPORTERS
       The Conference declined to approve additional court
reporter positions in the Districts of New Jersey and Northern
California.

                GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS
       At the request of the Department of Justice, legislation
has been introduced in the Congress (S. 1674 and H.R. 3337,
99th Congress) to improve the resolution of government
contract disputes. The bills would amend 28 U.S.C. 1331 and
1491 to vest exclusive jurisdiction in the United States Claims
Court to afford complete relief (including equitable and
extraordinary relief) on any claim relating to the award of a
government contract, whether suit is brought before or after
the contract is awarded.

        While other parts of this proposal relate primarily to
policy issues for the Congress, the amendments relating to
expanded jurisdiction of the Claims Court and withdrawal of
jurisdiction from the district courts are central to the
workload of the federal courts. The Conference agreed with
the Committee that the current multiplicity of forums to
resolve pre-awarded and post-awarded contract disputes is
inappropriate and, further, that the Claims Court is the
preferred forum in which to vest jurisdiction over these
disputes. Thus, the Conference endorsed these aspects of the
legislation.    However, the exclusion of district court


                             10
jurisdiction over claims relating to the award of government
contracts is drafted in language so broad as perhaps to be
susceptible of unintended consequences.       The Conference
therefore voted to recommend that the proposed amendment
to 28 U.S.C. 133l(b)(2) be redrafted or the legislative history
made clear that the amendment is intended solely to defeat
district court jurisdiction as to claims against the United
States relating to the award of a government contract.

                      CIVIL RICO SUITS

       The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
provisions, 18 U.S.C. 1961-1968, were enacted as part of the
Organized Crime Control Act of 1970. Section 1964(c)
provides a private civil action in the federal courts for treble
damages and attorney fees to any person injured in his business
or property through a l!pattern of racketeering activity". A
veritable "explosion" of civil RICO suits has occurred in the
federal courts in recent years.

       While the policies underlying the statute are appropriate
for consideration by others, the impact of civil RICO on the
workload of the federal courts is an appropriate matter for
comment by the judiciary.         It is the consensus of the
Conference that the impact of civil RICO suits on the federal
judicial workload justifies narrowing the scope of this remedy.

      The Conference adopted the following resolution:

          Responding to the request of the Chairmen of
      the Senate and House Committees on the
      Judiciary for the views of the Judicial
      Conference as to the impact of civil RICO
      actions under 18 U.S.C. 1964(c), the Conference
      observes that the statute, among other things,
      appears to recognize federal jurisdiction in each
      and every case in which two or more instances of
      mail or wire fraud are alleged to have occurred.

             The extraordinary penalties provided by
      the civil RICO statute (treble damages and
      attorney fees) are rapidly causing what would
      formerly have been considered routine breach of
      contract or common law fraud actions triable
      only in state courts, in the absence of diversity,



                              11
      to be filed in federal courts. This not only
      increases the burden on the federal courts, but
      causes friction with the state court system.

             Further, in that actions under the statute
      may be predicated on federal securities or
      antitrust violations, the statute overlaps and may
      tend to confuse well-established separate
      regulatory schemes.

             For these reasons, the Judicial Conference
      respectfully suggests that the Congress should
      seriously consider narrowing the reach of this
      statute.

 FEDERAL JURISDICTION UNDER INTERNATIONAL CHILD 

              ABDUCTION CONVENTION 

       The Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of
International Child Abduction has been signed but not yet
ratified by the United States Senate, and implementing
legislation to accompany the treaty will be transmitted to both
houses of Congress. The draft legislation, which establishes
the statutory framework for an international structure to deal
with the wrongful abduction or removal by a parent of a child
from one country to another, provides concurrent federal and
state court jurisdiction to determine whether a child in the
United States was wrongfully removed to or retained in the
United States.
        The sole issue considered by the Committee was
whether federal courts should have concurrent jurisdiction with
state courts over litigation under the convention. It was the
unanimous view of the Committee that state interest in and
experience with child custOdy disputes, coupled with the
traditional absence of federal involvement in such matters,
justified modification of the legislation to eliminate
concurrent federal jurisdiction under the convention. The
Conference concurred in the Committee's recommendation,
and authorized the transmission of this position to the
Department of State.




                             12 

                        AUTOMATION 

       Judge Markey reported that the Committee had
unanimously approved the Five-Year Plan for Automation in
the United States Courts (1986 Update). In addition to
providing timetables for the projected transfer of various
systems from the Federal JUdicial Center to the
Administrative Office, the current Five-Year Plan discusses
ongoing projects to address the next phase of providing word
processing and electronic mail support to the federal judiciary
(the Office Automation Project) and to implement a
standardized network approach to communications within the
judiciary (the Telecommunications Project).
       Certain of the Five-Year Plan timetables may have to
be adjusted as the result of budget reductions required by
Public Law 99-177, the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985 ("Gramm-Rudman-Hollings").
                   FRIVOLOUS LITIGATION

        In September, 1983, the JUdicial Conference approved
the concept of the exhaustion of state administrative remedies
in cases brought under 42 U.S.C. 1983 and tasked the
Committee with developing appropriate legislative language
for further consideration by the Conference. Last September
(September 1985 Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 46), after spirited
debate, the Conference returned the Committee's proposed
amendment to 42 U.S.C. 1983, and proposed repeal of 42
U.S.C. 1997e, to the Committee "for an assessment of the
draft's impact on the caseload of the federal courts".
       The    Committee     reported     that    neither   the
Administrative Office nor the Federal Judicial Center is
equipped to undertake such a study, the results of which would
be imprecise in any event. Accordingly, the Subcommittee on
Judicial Improvements has deferred further action on this
subject.
           FISCAL YEAR 1987 BUDGET REQUEST 

              FOR SUPPORTING PERSONNEL 


       Judge Markey reported that, on reconsideration, the
Committee on Court Administration had approved for inclusion
in the fiscal year 1987 budget request two additional positions
(one professional and one clerical) for the Office of the Circuit
Executive for the Eighth Circuit.

                              13
                COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

       Chief Judge Charles Clark, Chairman of the Committee
on the Budget, presented the report of the Committee.
            SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS 

               FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1986 


       The judiciary's appropriations act for 1986, Public Law
99-180, was signed by the President on December 13, 1985.
The appropriation approved for fees of jurors totaled
$43,400,000, or $2,800,000 less than the $46,200,000
requested. Projections of increased juror usage, as well as an
unexpected increase in juror obligations in excess of available
1985 appropriations, are estimated to cost an additional
$1,000,000. A supplemental fiscal year 1986 appropriation
request of $3,800,000 for this account was therefore
submitted.
       The fiscal year 1986 appropriations act also provided for
291 additional deputy clerks for bankruptcy courts. However,
a projected increase of 50,000 petitions and 3,000 adversary
proceedings for 1986 above the estimates included in the 1986
budget submission to Congress required revised workload
projections justifying an additional 200 positions.           A
supplemental appropriation request of $1,200,000 to fund the
additional 200 bankruptcy clerks for three months during the
fiscal year 1986 was also submitted.
       A further supplemental appropriation request, solely to
transfer funds among appropriation accounts, was submitted in
connection with reductions in expenditures made necessary by
Public Law 99-177, the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985 (see below). This act, known as
"Gramm-Rudman-Hollings" for its primary sponsors, requires
that, commencing March           1, 1986, across-the-board
sequestrations of 4.3 percent be made in each appropriation
category for the remainder of the fiscal year 1986. Since
across-the-board cuts would have a profound disparate effect
on personnel needed to support the administration of justice in
the United States, the judiciary requested congressional
approval of transfers of funds, from "Salaries of Judges" and
"Expenses of Operation and Maintenance of the Courts", to
"Salaries of Supporting Personnel".

                              14
        The Conference noted that, if these requests are denied,
or authority to transfer funds between appropriation accounts
is not conferred quickly, furloughs of judicial branch employees
without pay and/or deferral of civil jury trials, are distinct
possibilities during the last quarter of the fiscal year.
       "GRAMM-RUDMAN-HOLLINGS" BUDGET CUTS

       Ju~e Clark reported that, in response to Public Law
99-177, the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 ("Gram m-Rudman-Hollings") , the Chief Justice
had directed the Budget Committee, after consultation with all
circuit chief ju~es and chairmen of affected committees of
the Conference, to make recommendations for reductions in
expenditures for the fiscal year 1986 in lieu of across-the­
board sequestrations. The Committee met in special session on
February 18, 1986, and made a series of recommendations for
the reduction of expenditures to the Executive Committee of
the Conference. On March 5, 1986, after careful consideration
of the recommendations of the Budget Committee, the
Executive Committee adopted a schedule of reductions which,
together with other savings and assuming authority to transfer
funds between appropriation accounts will be conferred by the
Congress, will enable the judiciary (exclusive of the Supreme
Court, the Federal JUdicial Center, the Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit, and the Court of International Trade) to
meet the sequestered amount of just over $40,000,000 required
by ItGramm-Rudman-Hollings" for the fiscal year 1986. The
schedule of reductions was reaffirmed by the JUdicial
Conference, to take immediate effect.
       Included in the schedule of reductions reluctantly
accepted by the Conference was a cut of $1,360,000 in the
judiciary's appropriation category of "Court Security", relating
to building or perimeter security and security equipment. The
reduction would be realized by deferring the allocation of 60
additional court security officers authorized by Congress for
the fiscal year 1986; restricting the acquisition, installation,
and maintenance of security equipment; and reducing security
services in some courthouses by eliminating some court
security officer positions. Ju~e Clark also reported that the
United States MarShals Service has been directed to absorb a
SUbstantial reduction of $6,500,000 in appropriations available
for court security in the fiscal year 1986. United States
Marshals Service Director Stanley Morris has indicated that
this reduction will have a highly adverse effect on prisoner
transportation and courtroom security.

                              15
      Seriously concerned with the impact these cuts would
have on the security of the courts, the Conference unanimously
approved the following resolution and authorized its
transmission to representatives of the executive and legislative
branches:

             WHEREAS the Judicial Conference of the
      United States is aware of the need to economize
      during the present budget crISIS, and is
      determined that the judiciary shall comply fully
      with the letter and spirit of Gramm-Rudman­
      Hollings, but recognizes also that the effective
      operation of the judicial system is essential to
      the Nation's well-being;

              WHEREAS the Courts of the United States
       have traditionally been open long hours and days
       substantially beyond a 9-5, five-day week; and

              WHEREAS personnel of the courts and the
       Department of Justice work in the courthouses
       early and late, seven days a week; and
              WHEREAS many courts are in high-crime
       areas and have been attacked directly and
       through their personnel; and
              WHEREAS it is essential to the effective
       administration of justice that security, heat and
       air conditioning be available in federal
       courthouses when the courthouse must be open;
              BE IT RESOLVED that necessary funds
       and facilities be made available to keep
       courthouses open, habitable and secure at the
       times needed in the reasonable exercise of the
       courts' discretion.
       The Executive Committee also made additional
recommendations for further action in response to "Gramm­
Rudman-Hollings". As adopted by the Judicial Conference,
those recommendations include (1) urging the consolidation of
district and bankruptcy clerks' offices, where savings are
feasible; (2) encouraging district judges, bankruptcy judges, and
magistrates to utilize electronic sound recording equipment for
the recording of proceedings in court or in chambers in lieu of
official court reporters and/or contractual services; (3)

                              16
requesting that Congress amend 28 U.S.C. 333 to authorize
biennial circuit conferences; (4) suggesting annual rather than
semiannual meetings of metropolitan chief judges; (5)
authorizing annual rather than semiannual meetings of circuit
executives; (6) requesting that the Chief Justice consider
reducing the number of Judicial Conference committees and
the number of committee meetings during the period of deficit
reductions; (7) encouraging the imposition of sanctions upon
counsel and/or parties for tardy notification of settlement
contributing to the calling of unnecessary venirepersons; (8)
urging courts to utilize optical scanning equipment for juror
qualification purposes, which could eliminate hundreds (if not
thousands) of labor intensive hours; (9) requesting the Jury
Committee of the JUdicial Conference to study the effect of
assessing jury costs in civil actions against litigants; (0)
continuing to decentralize the budgetary process; (11)
requesting that Congress increase civil filing fees from $60 to
$120; (2) requesting that Congress increase bankruptcy filing
fees in Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 cases from $60 to $80; (13)
requesting the appropriate committees of the Judicial
Conference to study the possibility of increasing the entire
range of miscellaneous fees prescribed by the Judicial
Conference; (4) requesting that Congress implement an
incentive awards program under which employees could obtain
cash awards for ideas leading to substantial cost savings; (5)
requesting that Congress eliminate diversity of citizenship
jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. 1332; and (I6) authorizing, as a
last resort, end-of-year emergency measures including
furloughs of personnel without pay.

               JUDICIAL ETIDCS COMMI'ITEE

    Judge John H. Pratt, Chairman of the Judicial Ethics
Committee, presented the report of the Committee.
              ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE

       Judge Pratt reported that the Committee had received
1,998 financial disclosure reports for the calendar year 1985,
including 996 reports from judicial officers and 1,002 reports
from judicial employees, and had addressed 653 letters of
inquiry to reporting individuals.




                             17 

     ADVISORY COMMlTI'BB ON CODES OF CONDUCT

       Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the
Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct, presented the
report of the Committee.
              ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE

       Since its last report, the Committee received 17
inquiries and issued 14 advisory responses. The Chairman also
responded to 15 telephone inquiries that did not require
reference to the Committee. The Committee is publishing an
opinion dealing with the implications of Canons 4 and 5 on
judges' writing and lecturing, use of government resources,
control of advertising, etc.

       COMMlTI'BB ON INTBRCIRCurr ASSIGNMBNTS

       The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments filed a
report indicating that during the period August 15, 1985
through February 15, 1986, the Committee had recommended
58 intercircuit assignments to be undertaken by 40 judges. Of
this number, nine were senior circuit judges, three were active
circuit judges, 19 were senior district judges, four were active
district judges, three were senior judges of the Court of
International Trade, and two were active judges of the Court
of International Trade.
       Of the 58 assignments approved, 19 judges undertook 34
assignments to the courts of appeals, and 22 judges undertook
24 assignments to the district courts.
 COMMlTI'BB ON RULES OF PRACTICB AND PROCBDURE

       Judge Edward T. Gignoux, Chairman of the Standing
Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, presented the
report of the Committee.

                    RULES AMENDMENTS

       Judge Gignoux reported that the Committee anticipated
submitting gender-neutralizing amendments to the Criminal
and Bankruptcy Rules to the September, 1986 session of the
Judicial Conference. So that all such rules amendments may
be considered simultaneously, the Conference deferred
consideration of gender-neutralizing amendments to the Rules
of Evidence and the Civil Rules until its next session.

                              18
         COMMlTI'EE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF 

               THE PROBATION SYSTEM 


       Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat, Chairman of the Committee on
the Administration of the Probation System, presented the
report of the Committee.

                  SENTENCING INSTITUTES

       In September, 1985 (Conf. Rpt., p. 60), the Conference
approved the tentative program for an Institute on Sentencing
for the judges of the Ninth Circuit to be held at Phoenix,
Arizona, April 21-23, 1986. The Committee submitted the
final agenda for the sentencing institute, which the Conference
approved. A proposed Joint Institute on Sentencing for the
judges of the Second and Sixth Circuits on March 17-19, 1986,
also approved by the Conference in September, 1985 (Conf.
Rpt., p. 60), was cancelled at the request of the chief judges of
the Second and Sixth Circuits.

     COMPREHENSIVE CRIME CONTROL ACT OF 1984

       At its session in March, 1985 (Conf. Rpt., p. 21), the
Conference authorized the Probation Committee to draft
technical and conforming amendments to improve the
operation of the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984
(P.L. 98-473). The judiciary's views were shared with the
Department of Justice at the Department's request. As the
Conference was advised at its last session (September 1985
Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 60), legislation introduced at the
Department's behest (S. 1236 and H.R. 2774, 99th Congress)
adopts many but not all of the judiciary's suggestions.

       On December 12, 1985, the Senate Judiciary Committee
ordered reported S. 1236. The reported version of the bill
deleted all references to criminal fines and their receipt by
clerks of court, thus eliminating two sections opposed by the
judiciary (September 1985 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 61-62), but
also deleted several sections which the Probation Committee
had recommended. The Senate Judiciary Committee has
indicated that it will address these and oth-.!r concerns of the
judicial branch later this year.

       Congressman Kastenmeier has introduced as H.R. 3541,
99th Congress, most of the provisions of the Department's bill
(H.R. 2774) which fall within the jurisdiction of his Judiciary


                              19
Subcommittee OTl Courts, Civil Liberties, and the
Administration of Justice. The Conference voted to support
enactment of sections 3 (restoring the authority of the
Director of the Administrative Office to contract for drug
aftercare) and 6 (permitting probation officers to supervise
protected witnesses on probation or parole under state law) of
H.R. 3541.

                CRIMINAL FINE COLLECTION

       Judge Tjoflat advised the Conference that the dispute
between the Department of Justice and the judiciary
concerning the collection of criminal fine payments remains
unresolved. It is the position of the Judicial Conference that,
as a matter of law, the Attorney General is charged with the
responsibility of collecting criminal fines and, as a matter of
policy, it is inappropriate for the judiciary to collect criminal
fines except in limited circumstances where it is in the public
interest for the courts to perform this executive branch
function (September 1985 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 61-62). The
Conference approved a clarifying amendment to the Criminal
Fine Enforcement Act of 1984 (P.L. 98-596) consistent with
this position, in the event such amending language is requested
by the Congress.

                         RESTITUTION

       In Robinson v. McGui an, No. 84-5077 (2d Cir., decided
October 30, 1985 , the Court 0 Appeals for the Second Circuit
held that state court-ordered criminal restitution is
dischargeable in bankruptcy. Previous decisions of other
circuits had held that federal court-ordered criminal
restitution was not dischargeable. While the Bankruptcy Code
prohibits the discharge of "fines ll , the Robinson court construed
restitution to be a IIdebtll, and therefore dischargeable. H.R.
3742, 99th Congress, introduced on November 12, 1985, would
amend title 11 of the United States Code to make court­
ordered criminal restitution nondischargeable in bankruptcy.

       Since H.R. 3742 affects a sentencing court's discretion
by clearing up a perceived limitation on that discretion, it is an
appropriate matter for consideration by the jUdiciary. Upon
the recommendation of the Probation and Bankruptcy
Committees, the Conference voted to endorse H.R. 3742 to the
extent that it would make federal restitution orders



                               20
nondischargeable in bankruptcy. Application of the bankruptcy
laws of the United States to state criminal sentences, including
restitution, is a policy determination for the Congress.

         COMMlTl'EE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF
                THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM
       Judge Robert E. DeMascio, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System, presented the
report of the Committee.

                 REVISED GUIDELINES FOR
               CHAPTER 13 ADMINISTRATION

       Since 1963 (September 1963 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 87­
88), the Judicial Conference has promulgated, and periodically
revised, guidelines for Chapter 13 administration in order to
promote trustee supervision practices among the districts and
to prevent undesirable actions on the part of the trustees.
Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
approved revisions in the Chapter 13 guidelines to provide
greater guidance and detail to the courts in trustee
supervision.

                   NOTICING GUIDELINES

       The judiciary's current appropriations act encourages
the courts to place the burden and expense of bankruptcy
noticing on the litigants rather than the taxpayers. Draft
noticing guidelines, prepared to assist in the implementation of
this policy, were circulated for the views of all bankruptcy
judges and clerks, reviewed by the Committee, and approved
by the Conference.

         BANKRUPTCY ESTATE ADMINISTRATION

       Judge De Mascio noted that the. Committee had
reviewed the existing policy on the U.S. Trustee Program,
under the Department of Justice, to administer bankruptcy
estates pending before the courts. Since September, 1977
(Conf. Rpt., pp. 72-73), the Conference has opposed such a
system and favored authorization of a position within the
judiciary to perform these duties. The Bankruptcy Committee,
after a thorough review, reaffirmed its support for the existing
Conference position.



                              21
       Legislation now pendil).g in the Congress (S. 1961, H.R.
2660, and H.R. 3664, 99th Congress) would expand the U.S.
Trustee Program to a permanent, nationwide program.
Another proposal would expand the pilot program on an interim
basis. The Conference authorized the Committee to continue
its efforts in opposition to any extension or expansion of the
U.S. Trustee Program.
      COMMrITEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
          FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

      Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jr., Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Federal Magistrates System,
presented the report of the Committee.

             CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

       After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the
circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
magistrate positions.     Unless otherwise indicated, these
changes are to become effective when appropriated funds are
available.
                      SECOND CIRCUIT
New York, Northern:
     0) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Watertown for an additional four-year term and
             increased the salary from $11,195 to $22,724 per
             annum.

     (2) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Syracuse for an additional eight-year term.

     (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Champlain (or Plattsburg) for an additional four­
             year term but decreased the salary from $7,164 to
             $4,030   per    annum,    effective   upon    the
             commencement of the new term.




                             22 

                      FOURTH CIRCUIT 

Maryland:
     (1) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Hagerstown from $7,164 to $33,888 per
             annum for a two-month period commencing April
             1, 1986. Following the two-month period, the
             salary of the position will revert to $7,164 per
             annum.
     (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Hagerstown for an additional four-year term at
             the currently authorized salary of $7,164 per
             annum.
     (3) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Salisbury from $4,030 to $26,040 per
             annum for a two-month period commencing April
             1, 1986. Following the two-month period, the
             salary of the position will revert to $4,030 per
             annum.
     (4) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Salisbury for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $4,030 per annum.

South Carolina:
     0) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Aiken for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $2,015 per annum.
     (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Florence for an additional four-year term and
             increased the salary of the position from $4,030 to
             $25,859 per annum.
West Virginia, Southern:
     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position
     at Beckley or Bluefield from $22,724 to $34,200 per
     annum.


                              23
                       FIFTH CIRCUIT 


Texas, Southern:
     (1) 	   Continued the two full-time magistrate positions
             at Houston which are due to expire in 1987 for
             additional eight-year terms.
     (2) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Brownsville (or McAllen) which is due to expire on
             January 17, 1987, for an additional eight-year
             term.

     (3) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Corpus Christi for an additional eight-year term.
                       SIXTH CIRCUIT

Ohio, Southern:
     (1) 	   Authorized an additional full-time magistrate
             position to serve the court at Columbus.

     (2) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Columbus which is due to expire on April 30, 1987,
             for an additional eight-year term.

     (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Portsmouth for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $2,015 per annum.
Tennessee, Western:
     Continued the two full-time magistrate positions at
     Memphis for additional eight-year terms.

                      SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Indiana, Northern:

     (1) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Fort Wayne for an additional eight-year term.
     (2) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at South Bend from $22,724 to $34,200 per
             annum.


                              24
Indiana, Southern:

     (1) 	   Continued the two full-time magistrate positions
             at Indianapolis which are due to expire in 1987 for
             additional eight-year terms.
     (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Terre Haute for an additional four-year term at
             the currently authorized salary of $5,037 per
             annum.

     (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             New Albany for an additional four-year term at
             the currently authorized salary of $2,015 per
             annum.

                        NINTH CIRCUIT

Arizona:

     (1) 	   Redesignated the official location of the part-time
             magistrate position at Window Rock/Tuba City as
             Window Rock/Holbrook.

     (2) 	   Consolidated the part-time magistrate positions at
             Flagstaff ($5,037 per annum) and Page ($2,015 per
             annum) into one position designated as
             Flagstaff/Page at a salary of $9,179 per annum,
             effective April 1, 1986.
     (3) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Page, effective April 1, 1986.
     (4) 	   AuthoriZed    the    part-time    magistrate   at
             Flagstaff/Page to exercise jurisdiction in the
             adjoining District of Utah, formerly exercised by
             the part-time magistrate at Page.

California, Northern:
     (1) 	   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
             San Jose to a full-time magistrate position.




                              25
     (2) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at San
             Francisco which is due to expire on February 4,
             1987, for an additional eight-year term.

     (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Eureka for an additional four-year term and
             increased the salary from $2,015 to $4,030 per
             annum.

California, Central:
     (1) 	   Continued the five full-time magistrate positions
             at Los Angeles which are due to expire on January
             17, 1987, September 4, 1987, and June 18, 1988,
             for additional eight-year terms.
     (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             San Bernardino for an additional four-year term at
             the currently authorized salary of $17,352 per
             annum.
     (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Long Beach for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $11,195 per annum.
     (4) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Lancaster for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $9,179 per annum.

     (5) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Twentynine Palms or Palm Springs for an
             additional four-year term but reduced the salary
             of the position from $5,037 to $4,030 per annum,
             effective at the start of the new term.

Washington, Easte1u
                   I

     (1) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Spokane for an additional eight-year term.

     (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Yakima for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $17,352 per annum.




                              26 

                       TENTH CIRCUIT 


Oklahoma, Northern:

     (1) 	   Authorized a second full-time magistrate position
             to serve the court at Tulsa.
     (2) 	   Discontinued the deputy clerk/magistrate position
             at Tulsa.
     (3) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at Miami from $5,037 to $34,200 per
             annum for a one-month period commencing April
             I, 1986, and reduced the salary of the position to
             $2,015 per annum, effective May 1, 1986.

     (4) 	   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at
             Miami upon the expiration of the term of the
             incumbent or the appointment of a second full­
             time magistrate at Tulsa, whichever occurs first.

Oklahoma, Eastern:
     (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Hugo for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $2,015 per annum.

     (2) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at McAlester from $4,030 to $7,164 per
             annum.
                      ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Florida, Northern:
     Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
     Tallahassee and Gainesville for additional four-year
     terms at the currently authorized salaries of $34,200 per
     annum and $3,022 per annum, respectively.

Florida, Southern:

     (1) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
             Miami which is due to expire on January 14, 1987,
             for an additional eight-year term.



                              27
     (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
             Fort Pierce for an additional four-year term at the
             currently authorized salary of $3,022 per annum.
     (3) 	   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate
             position at West Palm Beach from $13,210 to
             $34,200 per annum.

COMMlTI'EE TO IMPLEMENT THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT

      Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the Committee
to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented the report of
the Committee.

              APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

       Judge MacBride submitted to the Conference a report
on appointments and payments under the Criminal Justice Act
for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1985. The report
indicated that Congress appropriated $64,367,000 for
"Defender Services" for the fiscal year 1985. At the time the
report was prepared, the estimate of appropriations
expenditures for the fiscal year 1985 was approximately
$59,051,000, leaving an estimated balance of $5,316,000 to be
carried forward into the fiscal year 1986.
        During the year, approximately 54,600 persons were
represented under the Criminal Justice Act, compared to
50,704 persons represented during the fiscal year 1984, an
increase of 7.7 percent. Of these persons, federal public and
community defender organizations represented 28,680 or 52.5
percent of the total representations, compared to 53.9 percent
in the fiscal year 1984 and 52.2 percent in the fiscal year 1983.

       The Conference authorized the Director of the
Administrative Office to transmit the report to all chief
judges, all federal defender organizations, and others who ,may
request copies.

                   BUDGET REQUESTS ­
               FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS 


      The Conference approved supplemental funding requests
for federal public defender offices for the fiscal years 1986
and 1987 as follows:



                              28
                            Fiscal Year       Fiscal Year
District                     1986              1987

Minnesota                   $ 20,800         $ 9,600
Ohio, Northern              $ 56,739         $ 58,275

                   CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT 

                       AMENDMENTS 


       The Conference voted to recommend that the Criminal
Justice Act, 18 U.S.C. 3006A, be amended:

     1. 	    To authorize, but not require, the
             delegation of a circuit chief judge's excess
             fee approval authority to an active circuit
             judge selected by the chief judge; and
     2. 	    To establish a holdover provision to permit
             the continued service of a federal public
             defender upon the expiration of the term of
             office, until a successor is appointed or for
             one year, whichever is earlier.

       Another proposed Criminal Justice Act amendment,
requiring JUdicial Conference approval of the establishment or
disestablishment of a federal defender organization, was
disapproved by the Conference.

            COMMITrEE ON THE ADMINJSTRATION 

                 OF THE CRIMINAL LAW 


       Judge John D. Butzner, Jr., Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Criminal Law, presented the
report of the Committee.
                       HABEAS CORPUS

       In September, 1985 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 80-81), the
Conference voted to endorse section 5 of S. 238, 99th
Congress, which would amend 28 U.S.C. 2254(b) to permit an
application for a writ of habeas corpus to be denied on the
merits notwithstanding the failure of the applicant to exhaust
the remedies available in state court. Consideration of section
3 (a proposed amendment to 28 U.S.C. 2253 to vest in the
judges of the courts of appeals exclusive authority to issue
certificates of probable cause for appeal in habeas corpus


                              29
proceedings, and to create an identical certificate requirement
for appeals by federal prisoners in collateral relief proceedings
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2255) and section 4 (a proposed
amendment to Rule 22 of the Federal Rules of Appellate
Procedure to conform to the procedures in 28 U.S.C. 2253) was
deferred by the Conference, pending a Committee solicitation
and evaluation of the views of the circuit and district chief
judges on the provisions.
       Judge Butzner reported that responses from 10 courts of
appeals and 47 district courts indicated that the courts were
approximately evenly divided in their support for, and
opposition to, the legislation.
       The Conference voted to oppose enactment of S. 238 to
the extent that it would amend 28 U.S.C. 2253 to confer
exclusive authority to issue certificates of probable cause on
the judges of the courts of appeals. Thus, the Conference
voted to retain the current authority of district courts to
certify habeas corpus proceedings for appeal. With respect to
creation of a certificate requirement for appeals from denials
of relief under 28 U.S.C. 2255, the Conference voted to
support the creation of a certificate requirement comparable
to that currently found in 28 U.S.C. 2253.
                ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

       S. 1667 and H.R. 3378, 99th Congress, would extend the
protections against unauthorized interception afforded by
Chapter 19 of title 18, United States Code, to advanced forms
of electronic communications. In addition, the bills would
restrict the installation and use of pen registers and tracking
devices by law enforcement officers who apply for and obtain
court orders authorizing such devices: before granting an
order, a court would be required to find that there is
reasonable cause (in the case of a pen register) or probable
cause (in the case of a tracking device) to believe that the
information likely to be obtained is relevant to a legitimate
criminal investigation.

       While the SUbstantive provisions of these bills present
questions of policy for resolution by the Congress, the
Committee observed that the requirement for obtaining a
court order for the installation or use of a pen register or
tracking device does not explicitly provide that the order could
be issued by a United States magistrate. The Conference


                              30
concluded that in the event of enactment of this legislation,
Congress should be asked to draft the legislative history to
show that judges would be permitted to authorize magistrates
to entertain such applications and issue orders.

                   GRAND JURY SECRECY

       S. 1676 and H.R. 3340, 99th Congress, the proposed
"Grand Jury Disclosure Amendments Act of 1985", were
introduced at the request of the Department of Justice. The
bills would amend Rule 6(e)(3) of the Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure (1) to permit automatic disclosure of grand jury
materials to Department of Justice attorneys for civil purposes
without a court order; (2) to permit the Department of Justice
to apply for court authorization to disclose grand jury
materials to other executive departments and agencies for
their use in matters within their jurisdiction, such as
adjudicative and administrative proceedings; and (3) to reduce
the "particularized needll standard for court-authorized
disclosure to a lesser standard of "substantial need" in certain
circumstances. S. 1562, 99th Congress, would make similar
changes in Rule 6(e)(3), except that it does not specifically
provide that only the Justice Department can request a
disclosure order (implying that other agencies may do so as
well), and it authorizes disclosure not just to personnel of
executive departments and agencies, but also to "any
committee of Congress".
        These bills were reviewed by both the Criminal Law and
Jury Committees.        The Committees agreed that while
enactment of the proposed amendments to Rule 6 of the
Criminal Rules is primarily a legislative rather than a judicial
question, the amendments could have a considerable impact
upon the courts and the functioning of the criminal process.
The Committees prepared a joint report discussing various
premises Congress might keep in mind in evaluating the
legislative proposals. The Conference voted to approve the
joint report.

           BRIBES AND GRATUITIES ACT OF 1985

       The proposed Bribes and Gratuities Act of 1985 (S. 1675
and H.R. 3336, 99th Congress) would permit the United States
to terminate for cause any contract, grant, or other benefit,
and to assess exemplary damages, if an "authority head" finds
after notice and hearing that a person who has been awarded
some benefit by the United States obtained or attempted to
influence the award of the benefit through some form of

                             31
bribery. Alternatively, the authority head could, after notice
and hearing, declare void and rescind any contract, grant, or
other benefit tainted by bribery, retain all benefits received,
and recover all benefits conferred by the United States
pursuant to the contract, grant, service, or other benefit.

       In general, S. 1675 and H.R. 3336 present policy matters
for resolution by the Congress. However, the Committee
observed that, as written, the statute would apply to any
person who "is awarded a contract ••• by any agency of the
United States". The Committee found this language to be
unclear, and therefore potentially the subject of litigation, on
the question of whether the legislation would apply in
situations in which a bribe or gratuity were given to an officer
or employee of an agency administering federal grants, even
though the person were not employed by the United States.
The Committee recommended clarification of this ambiguity in
the event of enactment of the bill, and the Conference agreed.
             BAIL REFORM ACT AMENDMENTS
       As noted in the discussion at pages 19-20 entitled
"Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984", Congressman
Kastenmeier has introduced as H.R. 3541, 99th Congress, most
of the provisions of the Department of Justice's proposed
amendments to the Act (P.L. 98-473) which fall within the
jurisdiction of his House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts,
Civil Liberties, and the Administration of Justice. Section 2 of
H.R. 3541 would amend the Bail Reform Act to enable a
government attorney to move for a detention hearing if no
condition or combination of conditions will assure the
appearance of the defendant and the safety of the community,
and the offense charged is one involving the unlawful
possession or transfer of firearms or explosives.           The
Committee supported this amendment and the Conference
agreed. Section 2 of H.R. 3541 would also permit a detention
hearing to be reopened at any time before trial if material
information exists "that was not known to the movant at the
time of the [original detentionl hearing". The Conference
voted to support this provision as well, if amended to provide
that the material information upon which the reopening is
based was not only unknown to the moving party, but also could
not have been obtained through the exercise of "reasonable
diligence" •


                              32
            COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION OF 

                  THE JURY SYSTEM 


      Judge T. Emmet Clarie, Chairman of the Committee on
the Operation of the Jury System, presented the report of the
Committee.

               MODEL GRAND JURY CHARGE

       The current model grand jury charge was approved by
the Judicial Conference in September, 1978 (Conf. Rpt., p.
77). The Conference approved an updated and shortened model
grand jury charge.

        COMMlTl'EE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL 

          CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS 


       The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and
Disability Orders filed a report indicating that, since its last
report, no proceedings within its jurisdiction had been filed or
were pending.

            COMMITTEE ON THE BICENTENNIAL 

                OF THE CONSTITUTION 


       Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the
Committee on the Bicentennial of the Constitution, presented
the report of the Committee.

       The Committee, which includes a representative from
each circuit, held its first organizational meeting on December
18, 1985. It will serve primarily as a catalyst and coordinator
of bicentennial projects locally designed, organized, managed,
and funded.

   AD HOC COMMITTEE ON AMERICAN INNS OF COURT

       The Ad Hoc Committee on American Inns of Court filed
a report indicating that, to date, 15 Inns of Court have been
chartered by the American Inns of Court Foundation. At its
February, 1986 meeting, the Foundation Board of Trustees
accepted the resignation of its Chairman, Judge Aldon J.
Anderson, and also voted to commend Judge Anderson for his
outstanding service to the American Inns of Court movement.
Chief Judge Howard T. Markey was elected to succeed Judge
Anderson as Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the
Foundation.

                              33
          AD HOC COMMITI'EE ON ELECTRONIC 

                 SOUND RECORDING 


       Judge Collins J. Seitz, Chairman of the Ad Hoc
Committee on Electronic Sound Recording, presented the
report of the Committee.

       At the request of the Appropriations Committee of the
United States Senate and the Ad Hoc Committee, the
Administrative Office conducted a program evaluation of the
electronic sound recording program. Although not all courts
were included in the evaluation, by the end of 1985, 31 active
and senior district judges and 49 bankruptcy judges had
requested the installation of electronic sound recording
equipm ent as the means of taking all or part of the record of
proceedings in court and/or chambers.

       On the basis of the Administrative Office evaluation,
the Ad Hoc Committee concluded that substantial financial
savings are realized when a court uses electronic sound
recording, and accurate and timely transcripts are being
produced. The Conference approved the report and determined
that the electronic sound recording program should be
employed as a permanent part of the facilities and services
available to the judiciary, subject to appropriate funding, and
authorized the transmittal of the report to the Congress.
                  MEMORIAL RBSOLUTION

      Noting the death of Judge Edward Allen Tamm, the
Conference adopted the following resolution:
          The Judicial Conference of the United States
     notes with sadness the death of Judge Edward
     Allen Tamm on September 22, 1985.                 A
     distinguished judge of the United States District
     Court for 17 years and the Court of Appeals for
     the District of Columbia Circuit for 20 years, and
     Chief Judge of the Temporary Emergency Court of
     Appeals for 11 years, Judge Tamm was admired by
     all who knew and worked with him. In addition to
     his duties as an active judge serving on a busy
     circuit, he carried numerous difficult extra­
     judicial    assignments    requiring    exceptional
     administrative ability. He faithfully discharged all
     these tasks with thoroughness and dedication.

                             34
        Judge Tamm, a native of Butte, Montana,
began his judicial career in 1948 when he was
selected by President Truman to be a judge of the
United States District Court for the District of
Columbia. In 1965, he was appointed by President
Johnson to the United States Court of Appeals.
His 37 years on the federal bench were preceded
by 18 years of service in the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, where he became one of its highest
ranking officers. His extraordinary administrative
skills were widely credited as a major factor in the
high standing of the FBI during his tenure there.

       In 1969, Judge Tamm was appointed by the
Chief Justice of the United States to be the first
Chairman of the Judicial Conference Review
Committee, responsible for administering the then
voluntary financial disclosure and reporting
program of the federal judiciary. When Congress
passed the Ethics in Government Act of 1978,
requiring the filing of financial disclosure reports
by all senior government officials, that Review
Committee became the present Judicial Ethics
Committee, under the new Act. Judge Tamm
continued as its Chairman. From 1972 until 1979,
he was the co-chairman of the Joint Committee of
the Judicial Conference on the Code of Judicial
Conduct which developed the Code of Conduct for
United States Justices and Judges.
       In 1972, Judge Tamm was also appointed by
the Chief Justice of the United States to be the
Chief Judge of the Temporary Emergency Court of
Appeals, a court created pursuant to the Economic
Stabilization Act of 1970 and consisting entirely of
judges serving under assignment from other
federal courts. Judge Tamm was Chief Judge of
TECA for a decade and relinquished this position
in late 1981 only after most of the business of the
court had been completed.

       Simultaneously with these three important
assignments, Judge Tamm was an influential
member     of    the   Committee      on    Court
Administration and the Advisory Committee on
the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure. He
served on these committees until his death. Few,
if any, federal judges have carried as heavy an
                        35
     administrative and extra judicial burden as did
     Judge Tamm over a period of many years.

            This brief narrative of Judge Tamm's
     judicial career and leadership in judicial
     improvement does not convey the essential
     character of the man as a human being. Each
     generation produces judges of singular leadership
     recognized by their contemporaries as pillars' of
     strength and examples of integrity, discipline and
     dedication. Judge Tamm was one of these, but he
     was much more. To his friends, he was quiet,
     unassuming and completely modest. On the bench,
     while at all times a strict disciplinarian, he was
     consistently civil and courteous to all who
     appeared before him.      To borrow a classical
     expression typical of those he took pleasure in
     quoting, he could be described as nsuaviter in
     modo, fortiter in re." Few judges in the history of
     the federal judiciary have made comparable
     contributions to the administration of justice. We
     shall miss him greatly.

            We, the members of the Conference,
     convey our sympathy to his widow, Grace Tamm,
     and their two children, Edward and Grace, and ask
     that this resolution be sent to them as a mark of
     our profound respect and high esteem.

                         ELECTIONS

      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 62l(a)(2), the Conference elected
Judge Jose A. Cabranes of Connecticut to membership on the
Board of the Federal Judicial Center for a term of four years
to succeed Judge Warren K. Urbom, whose term expires on
March 28, 1986.

        Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 332(f), the Conference elected
Judge Louis F. Oberdorfer of the District of Columbia to
membership on the Board of Certification for Circuit
Executives for a term of three years to succeed Judge John H.
Pratt, whose term expires on July 1, 1986. The Conference
also reelected Mr. John W. Macy, Jr., to membership on the
Board of Certification for an additional term of three years,
until July 1, 1989.


                             36
                 PRBTERMJSSION OF TBRMS 

                OF 'rHB COURTS OF APPBALS 


       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, the Conference approved the
pretermission of terms of the following United States Courts
of Appeals during the calendar year 1986: the Court of Appeals
for the Fourth Circuit at Asheville, North Carolina; the Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit at Kansas City, Missouri and
Omaha, Nebraska; the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
at Los Angeles, California; and the Court of Appeals for the
Tenth Circuit at Wichita, Kansas and Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma.

            RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

       The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for
legislative or administrative action.


                                         Warren E. Burger


August 25, 1986 	                        Chief Justice
                                         of the United States




                           37 

REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 


           OF THE 


JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE 


      UNITED STATES 





       SPECIAL SESSION 


         June 30, 1986 





        Washington, D.C.
             1986
             REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

            OF THE SPECIAL SESSION OF THE 

     JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES 


                        June 30, 1986

       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened
in special session by telephonic conference call on June 30,
1986, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United
States issued under 28 U.S.C. 331. The Chief Justice presided
and the following members of the Conference participated:

First Circuit:

       Chief Judge Levin 'H. Campbell
       Chief Judge Juan M. Perez-Gimenez, District of Puerto
              Rico

Second Circuit:

       Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
       Chief Judge Jack B. Weinstein, Eastern District of New
              York

Third Circui t:

       Chief Judge Ruggero J. Aldisert* 

       Chief Judge Murray M. Schwartz, District of Delaware 


Fourth Circuit:

       Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
       Judge Frank A. Kaufman, District of Maryland




       Judge Aldisert was unav1:lilable at the time of the
   * 	 conference call but cast his vote in advance, based upon
       written materials submitted to Conference members by
       mail.


                             39
Fifth 	C ircuit:

        Chief Judge Charles Clark
        Judge Adrian G. Duplantier, Eastern District of
               Louisiana

Sixth Circuit:

        Chief Judge Pierce Lively
        Chief Judge Robert M. McRae, Jr., Eastern District of
               Tennessee

Seventh Circuit:

        Judge Harlington Wood, Jr.**
        Chief Judge Frank J. McGarr, Northern District of
               Illinois

Eighth Circuit:

        Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
        Chief Judge John F. Nangle, Eastern District of
               Missouri

Ninth Circuit:

        Chief Judge James R. Browning
        Chief Judge Robert J. McNichols, Eastern District of
               Washington

Tenth Circuit:

        Chief Judge William J. Holloway, Jr. 

        Chief Judge Sherman G. Finesilver, District of Colorado 


Eleventh Circuit:

        Chief Judge John C. Godbold
        Chief Judge James Lawrence King, Southern District of
               Florida



 * * 	 Designated by the Chief Justice (at the request of Judge
       Cummings) in place of Chief Judge Walter J. Cummings,
       who was out of the country.


                              40
District of Columbia Circuit:

      Chief Judge Spottswood W. Robinson, III
      Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, ,Jr., District of
             Columbia

Federal Circuit:

      Chief Judge Howard T. Markey

       J.J. Ralph 1VIecham, Director of the Administrative
Office of the United States Courts, also participated.

     PROCEEDINGS UNDER JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND 

                  DISABILITY ACT 


       The Chief Justice called this special telephone
conference session of the Judicial Conference to consider a
certificate issued on June 18, 1986, by the Judicial Council of
the Ninth Circuit pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 372(c)(7)(B), conveying
its determination that Chief Judge Harry E. Claiborne of the
United States District Court for the District of Nevada had
engaged in conduct which might constitute grounds for
impeachment under Article I of the United States
Constitution. In advance of the conference call, the members
of the Conference were provided with a draft of a certificate
which the Conference could issue to the House of
Representatives under 28 U.S.C. 372(c)(8), concurring in the
determination of the Ninth Circuit Judicial Council that
consideration of the impeachment of Judge Claiborne may be
warranted.

       The Chief Justice afforded each member of the
Conference the opportunity to comment upon the proposed
certificate. After discussion, the Conference agreed to amend
the certificate to include an affirmative finding that no
additional investigation of Judge Claiborne's conduct was
warranted in view of his conviction under federal law and the
affirmance of the conviction on appeal. As amended, the
certificate provided as follows:




                                41 

              CERTIFICATE 


TO THE SPEAKER, UNITED STATES HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES:

       The Judicial Conference of the United
States, acting pursuant to section 331 of title 28,
United States Code, does hereby certify as
follows:

       1.     On June 18, 1986, the Judicial
Council of the Ninth Circuit certified to the
Judicial Conference, as provided by 28 U.S.C.
372(c)(7)(B), that United States District Judge
Harry E. Claiborne of the District of Nevada has
engaged in conduct which might constitute
grounds for impeachment under Article I of the
United States Constitution.

       2.     The Judicial Conference, in special
session by telephonic conference call, has
exercised its authority under 28 U.S.C. 372(c)(8)
to consider the certificate of the Judicial
Council of the Ninth Circuit. In so doing, the
JUdicial Conference had before it certified
official  records     of   judicial  proceedings
manifesting as follows:

       On October 3, 1984, Judge Claiborne was
       convicted of two counts of violating
       section 7206(1) of the Internal Revenue
       Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 7206(1».

       On May 1, 1986, Judge Claiborne's
       conviction beca:ne final upon receipt in
       the United States District Court for the
       District of Nevada of the mandate of the
       United States Court of Appeals for the
       Ninth Circuit.




                       42 

       3.     The Judicial Council of the Ninth
Circuit has determined and certified to the
Judicial Conference that a violation of section
7206(1) of the Internal Revenue Code might
constitute one or more grounds for impeachment
and that Judge Claiborne has engaged in conduct
which might constitute grounds for impeachment
under Article I of the Constitution.

       4.    As provided in 28 U.S.C. 372(c)(8),
the Judicial Conference concurs in the
determination of the Judicial Council of the
Ninth Circuit that a violation of section 7206(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code might constitute
one or more grounds for impeachment and that
Judge Claiborne has engaged in conduct which
might constitute grounds for impeachment under
Article I of the Constitution.      The JUdicial
Conference considers no additional investigation
appropriate.

       5.    Consideration of the impeachment
of Judge Claiborne may be warranted.
       There are attached to this certificate the
certificate of the Judicial Council of the Ninth
Circuit to the Judicial Conference and certified
copies of the judgment and commitment order of
the United States District Court for the District
of Nevada entered on October 3, 1984, the
judgment of the United States Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit on July 8, 1985, affirming
the judgment of the District Court, and a
certificate of Joseph F. Spaniol, Jr., Clerk of the
Supreme Court of the United States, that the
Supreme Court on April 21, 1986, denied the
petition for writ of certiorari filed by Judge
Claiborne in this matter.

       Executed this 30th day of June, 1986.




                       43 

      The Conference voted to authorize the Chief Justice to
execute the certificate and issue it to the Speaker of the
House of Representatives.


                                       Warren E. Burger


July 28, 1986                          Chief Justice
                                       of the United States




                            44 

                                                 INDEX 


                                                                                                      Page

Administrative Office, U. S. Courts
  Court Interpreters Certification.. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• •                           9
  Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Budget Cuts.. • • . • . • . . . • •• • • •                                      5
  Judicial Business of the Courts. • • . . • • • • • • • • . • . . • . • • • • •                        4
  Report of the Director. • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • •                   4
Appellate Rule 22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          30
Appointments and Payments, Cri minal Justice Act. • • • • • • • • .                                    28
Appropriations (see Budget)
Arbitration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6
Automation •.•••.......•.•••.........•••.........••••.                                                 13
Bail Reform Act Amendments.. •• . ••. .•••••• •• •• .• .•••••                                          32
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
   Control Act of 1985 (see IfGramm-Rudman-Hollings")
Bankruptcy System:
   Bankruptcy Estate Administration. • • • • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • • •                           21
   Committee on; Report of........ •. •• •••••••• •. . .• ••••                                         21
   Noticing Guildeines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              21
    Revised Guidelines for Chapter 13 Administration...... •                                           21
Bicentennial of the Constitution:
    Committee on; Report of. . . . • . • • • • • • • . . . • . • • • • • • • • . . •                   33
Bribes and Gratuities Act of 1985 ••.••••••••.••••.•••••••                                             31
Budget:
   Com mi ttee on; Report of. • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • •                  14
   Decentralize Budget Process. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                      17
   Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Cuts. •••• •••••• ••• •• • •••• •. •                                          14
   Supplemental Appropriations for FY 1986... .• •• ••••• •. .                                         14
Budget Requests:
   Federal Public Defenders... ••••• •• • • • •• ••••• ••• •••• ••                                     28
   Supporting Personnel; Eighth Circuit. • • • • • • •. . • . . • • • • • •                            13
Cases Cited:
     Robinson v. McGuigan .•..•••..••••••...•...•.•..••••                                              20
Child Abduction Convention; Federal Jurisdiction
   Under International. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              12
Circuit Conferences; Biennial. • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • •                   17
Circuit Executives
   Certification Board; Election to • . . • . • . • • • • • • • . . • . • . • • •                      36
     Meetings of •••.••••.•..••••••••••..••••••.•••••••••                                              17
Civil RICO Suits • • • . . . • . • • • . . . . . • • • • • • • . . . . . . . • . • . • • • . .         11
Claiborne, Harry E.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           41
Clai ms Court. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       10




                                               45
Clerks:
   Consolidation of District &:. Bankruptcy. • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • 16
   Deputies for Bankruptcy Courts. • . . • . • • • • • . . • . . . . . • • • • 14
Codes of Conduct:
   Advisory Committee on; Report of •••••••••.•••••••••• 18
Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 •••••••••••••••• 19,32
Conduct and Disability Act; Proceedings under. • • • • • • • • • • • • 41
Contract Disputes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Court Administration:
   Arbitration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
     Automation. .• • .• . •• • •. • . • .• •• . .• .• .• • • . • . . . . • • . . • •           13
     Child Abduction Convention; Federal
       Jurisdiction under International. • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                12
     Civil RICO Suits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
     Committee on; Report of.............................                                        6
     Court Interpreters Act. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • •         9
     Court Reporters ••••••..•.••.•.•••••.•........•.••••                                       10 

  Courts Design Guide. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           7
  Frivolous Litigation. •• •• • •• • •• • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • •• • • • • •              13
  Government Contracts. . • . . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •             10
  Places of Holding Court. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •             8
  Regulations for Debt Collection. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                   8
  Re10ca tion Allowances. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •            7
  Removal Jurisdiction ................................                                         10 

  Supporting Personnel •••..••••••••••....•.•••••••••.•                                         13
Court Interpreters Act. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •        9
Court Reporters ....••••...•........••••...•.....••••••                                         10 

Courts of Appeals; Pretermission of Terms of . • • • • • • • • • • • • •                        37
Criminal Fine Collection. • • . • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • •         20
Criminal Justice Act:
   Amendments to the Act. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •             29
   Appointments and Payments. • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • •                 28
   Budget Requests - Federal Public Defenders.. • • • • • • • • • •                             28
   Committee on; Report of •..•.•••••••••.••'. • • • • • • • • • • •                            28
Crim ina1 Law:
   Bail Reform Act Amendments ••••••••••••••••••••••••                                          32
   Bribes and Gratuities Act of 1985 .....................                                      31
   Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •             29
   Electronic Surveillance ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                       30
   Grand Jury Secrecy. • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • . . . • • • • • • • •        31
     Habeas Corpus. . . . • • • • • • • . . • . . . • . . • . • . • . • . . . . . . . . . • •   29
Debt Collection Act of 1982 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • •            8
Design Guide, U. S. Courts ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                        7
Diversity Jurisdiction. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •     17
Drug Aftercare .. . . . . • • • • . • • . . • • . . • . • • • • . • • . • . • • • • • • • • •   20



                                            46 

Elections:
     Board of Certification ............... . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. .. . .. .                                               36
   Board of the Federal JUdicial Center. • • . . • • . . • • . . • . . . • .                                                          36
Electronic Sound Recording:
   Ad Hoc Committee on; Report of.. .. ••.•••. • • . . . • . .•.•                                                                     34
   Utilization under Gramm-Rudman-Hollings ..•••••••..•.                                                                              16
Electronic Surveillance ..................................................................                                            30
Ethics (see Judicial Ethics)
Executive Committee Actions:
   Schedule of Budget Reductions. • • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • •                                                       15
Federal JUdicial Center Board; Election to. • • • . • • • • • • • • • • . •                                                           36
Fee Schedules; Increase in . • • • • • • . • . • • . . • • • • • . • • . • • • • • • • •                                              17
Federal Public Defenders:
     Budget Requests .... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..       28
   Design Guide Amendlnent ...••••••••••.•••••.•.••••••                                                                                7
Financial Disclosure (see Judicial Ethics)
Five-year Plan for Automation. • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • . • • . . •                                                    13
Frivolous Litigation...... . . .... .... ...... . .... .... . .... .... . . .... . .... . ..... .... .                                13
Government Contracts. • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                               10
Gram m-Rudman-Hollings:
   Administrative Office Budget Cuts. . • • • • • • . • • • • . • . • • • .                                                            5
     Automation ................................................................................                                      13
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
      Control Act of 1985 ••••.•••••••••••••.•••.•••••••.                                                                             14
     Court 8ecurity . . .. .. .. . . . . .. .. . . . . .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. . . . .. .. .. .. .                   15
     Schedule of Reductions .••••••••••••••••••••••••.••••                                                                            15
     Transfers of Funds ....................................................................                                          14
Grand Jury
   Model Grand Jury Charge •.•••.•..•••.•••••.•••.••...                                                                               33
     Secrecy.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. • .. .. . • • • .. .. . .. • .. .. • • .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .   31
     Use of interpreters. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                            9
Guidelines:
    Bankruptcy Chapter 13 Administration. . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • .                                                             21
    Bankruptcy Noticing.................................                                                                              21
    ReJocation Allowances. • • • • • • . • • • . . • . • • • . . • • • • • . . • • • .                                                 7
Habeas Corpus. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                        29
Hague Convention .....................................                                                                                12
Impeachment; Certificate of Consideration of. . • • . • • • . • • . . •                                                               42
Incentive Awards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                         17
Inns of Court:
    Ad Hoc Committee on; Report of. . • . • • • • • . . . • •• . . • • • • •                                                          33
Intercircuit Assignments:
    Committee on; Report of.............................                                                                              18




                                                              47
JUdicial Branch: Committee on; Report of .•.••••••..•..•.    6
Judicial Business of the Courts •••.•••••.•••••..••••••••••  4
JUdicial Conference of the U.S.:
   Call of ............................................ . 1,39
   Committees of ..................................... . 17
   Release of Action .................................. . 37
   Special Session ..................................... . 39
Judicial Ethics: Committee on; Report of •••.•••••.•••.••• 17
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation:
     Report of ••••••.•••.•..•••...••..•.•.•.•..••.••.•••                                                 5
Jurisdiction
    Diversi ty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
    Government contract disputes .•••••••••••••••••••••••                                               10
   International Child Abduction Convention ••••••••••••••                                              12
     Removal • . . • . • • • . • • • . . . . • . • . . . • • • • . . . • . . • . . • • • • . . . •      10
Juror Qualification Scanning. • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                   17
Jury Costs •••••••••..•••••.•••••••••.•...••••.•.••.••.                                                 17
Jury System:
   Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • •                     33
   Model Grand Jury Charge •••••••.•••.•••••.••.•••••••                                                 33
Legislation:
   Arbitration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          6
   Bail Reform Act Amendments...... •. ••••• ••• .•• •.•••                                              32
   Bribes and Gratuities Act of 1985 .••••••••••••.•.•••••                                              31
   Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984;
      Amendments to.... . . ... ......... . ...... . . ...... ... ...                                   19 

   Court Interpreters Act. • . • • . • • • • • • . • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • •                   9
   Criminal Fine Enforcement Act of 1984 ••••••• .•••• • .••                                            20
   Criminal Justice Act Amendments.. • .••••.• .••. . • .•••.                                           29
   Electronic Surveillance •.••••••.••••••••••••.•••••..•                                               30
     Grand Jury Secrecy. • • .. • • .. • • • .. . • • • • .. • . • .. . • .. . . • • • • • . • ..       31
     Habeas Corpus. . • • • • • • • • .. • .. • • • .. • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • .. .. .     '2'9
     Government Contract Disputes. • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                        10
     Jurisdiction under International Child
       Abduction Convention. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • •                  12
     Places of Holding Court. • . • • • • . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . •                  8
     Removal Jurisdiction ................................                                              10
     Resti tution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . .   20
     U. S. Trustee Program ...............................                                              22 





                                                48 

Magistrates:
  Changes in Magistrate Positions..... . •• •• •• ••• •••• • • • .                                    22
  Committee on; Report of....... •• • •• •••••• •• ••• ••••••                                         22
  Electronic Surveillance Orders. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                       30
Marshals Service             •.••....•..•••..•.•.•.••.•••...•.•...•                                   15
Memorial Resolution; Judge Edward A. Tamm • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                 34
Metropolitan Chief Judges. • • • • . • • • • . . • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • •                17
'VIultidistrict Litigation:
   JUdicial Panel on; Report of • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                    5
Noticing Guidelines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          21
Organized Crime Control Act of 1970 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                         II
Places of Holding Court. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               8
Pretermission of Terms of the Courts of Appeals. • • • • • • • • • •                                  37
Probation System:
   Committee on; Report of.. ••••• •• . . • •••••••. ••••• ••••                                       19
   Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 •••••••••••••                                              19
   Criminal Fine Collection. • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                  20
     Restitution. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .    20
   Sentencing Insti tutes •••••.•••••••••.••••••••••••••••                                            19
Protected Wi tnesses; Supervision of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                     20
Racketeer Infiuence and Corrupt Organizations ••••••••••••                                            II
Release of Conference Action ••••••••.••••••••••••••••••                                              37
Reloca tion Allowances. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              7
Restitution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders:
   Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • •                   33
Rules of Practice and Procedure:
     Appellate Rule 22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          30
   Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                   18
Salary Offset; Debt collection regulations. • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • •                            8
Sentencing Institutes •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                             19
Supporting Personnel:
   FY 1987 Budget Request for. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                      13
     Furlough of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . .     17
Tamm, Edward A.; Memorial Resolution.. • • • • •• • • . •• • ••• ••                                   34
Te1ecomunications Project ••••.••••••••••••••••••••.•.••                                              13
Trustees .••.•••••....•.•.••••..•...•....•...••....•••.                                               21




                                               49
