         Report 

          of the 

   Proceedings of the 

Judicial Conference of the 

      United States 



      September 18-19, 1986




        Washington, D.C.
             1986
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE 

   UNITED STATES COURTS 



        L. Ralph Mecham 

            Director 

         Report 

          of the 

   Proceedings of the 

Judicial Conference of tile 

      United States 



      September 18-19, 1986




        Washington, D.C.
             1986
  THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES, 28 U.S.C. 331
§ 331. JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

   The Chief Justice of the United States shall summon annually the <:hief judge of each
judicial circuit. and a district judge from each judicial circuit to a conference at such
time and place in the United States as he may designate. He shall preside at such confer­
ence which shall be known as the Judicial Conference of the United States. Special ses·
sions of the conference may be called by the Chief Justice at such times and places as b.
may designate.
   The district judge to be summoned from each judicial circuit shall be chosen by the cir·
c:uit and district judges of the circuit at the annual judicial conference of the circuit held
pursuant to section 33J of this title and shall sene as a member of the conference for
three successive ,ears. except that in the ,ear following the enactment of this amended
section the judges in the first. fourth. seventh. and tenth circuits shall choose a district
judge to sene for one year, the judges in the second. fifth. and eighth circuits shall
choose a district judge to sene for two ,ears and the judges in the third. sixth. ninth, and
District of Columbia circuits shall choose a district judge to sene for three years.
   If the chief judge of any circuit or the district judge chosen by the judges of the circuit
is unable to attend, the Chief Justice may summon any other circuit or district judge from
such circuit. Every judge summoned shall attend and. unless excused by the Chief Justice.
shall remain throughout the sessions of the conference and advise as to the needs of his
circuit or court and as to any matters in respect of which the administration of justice in
the courts of the United States may be improved.,
   The Conference shall make a comprehensive survey of the condition of business in the
courts of the United States and prepare plans for assignment of judges to or from circuits
or districts where necessary. It shall also submit suggestions and recommendations to the
various courts to promote uniformity of management procedures and the expeditious con­
duct of court business. The Conference is authorized to exercise the authority provided in
section 372(c) of this title as the Conference. or through a standing committee. If the
Conference elects to establish a standing committee, it shall be appointed by the Chief
Justice and all petitions for review shall be reviewed by that committee. The Conference
or the standing committee may hold hearings, take sworn testimony. issue subpoenas and
subpoenas duces tecum, and make necessary and appropriate orders in the exercise of its
authority. Subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum shall be issued by the clerk of the Su­
preme Court or by the clerk of any court of appeals, at the direction of the Chief Justice
or his designee and under the seal of the court. and shall be served in the manner pro.
Yided in rule 45(c) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure for subpoenas and subpoenas
duces tecum issued on behalf of the United States or an officer or any agency thereof.
The Conference may also prescribe and modify rules for the exercise of the authority pro·
vided in section 372(c) of this title. All judicial officers and employees of the United
States shall promptly carry into effect all orders of the Judicial Conference or the stand­
lIIe committee established pursumt to this section.
   The Conference shall also carry on a continuous study of the operation and effect of the
peral rules of practice and procedure DOW or hereafter in use as prescribed by the Su­
preme Court for the other courts of the United States pursuant to law. Such changes in
and additions to those rules as the Conference may deem desirable to promote simplicity
III procedure. fairness in administration. the just determination oflitigation, and the eUm­
Illation of unjustifiable expense and delay shall be recommended by the Conference from
time to time to the Supreme Court for its consideration and adoption, modification or re­
jection. in accordance with law.
  The Attorney General shall, upon request of the Chief Justice. report to such conference
on matters relating to the business of the several courts of the United States. with partic­
ular reference to cases to which the United States is a party.
   The Chief Justice shall submit to Congress an annual report of the proceedings of the
Judicial Conference and its recommendations for legislation.



                                                  iv
                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS 


               REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

           JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES 


                                 September 18-19, 1986 



                                                                                                                                       Page

Call of the Conference. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                              47 

Report of the Director of the Administrative 

   Office of the United States Courts •....••.•..•.•..•.••                                                                              51 

      JUdicial Business of the Courts . . . • • • • . • . • • . • . • • . • • . •                                                       51 

JUdicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. . . . • . • • • • . • • . • • .•                                                            52 

Committee on the Judicial Branch. . • .• . . •. . • .. •. •• . .• .•• •                                                                 52 

   JUdicial Survivors' Annuities. • • • • • • • . . • • • . . • . • • • . . . . • •                                                     52 

   Cost-of-Living Adjustment of 

        Judicial Salaries ..................................                                                                            53 

Committee on Court Administration..... ••. •. • •• .• .• . •• ••                                                                        53 

  Additional Judgeships. . . • . • • • • • • • • • . . • . . . • • . • . . . . • • • .                                                  53 

  Librarian Qualification Standards; 

    Qualification Standards for Probation 

    and Pretrial Services Officers. • • • • . . • . . • . • • • • . . • • . • .                                                        56 

  Law Clerks and the Leave Act. • • . • • . • . • • . • • . • . • . . • . • .                                                          57 

  Judiciary Equal Employment Opportunity 

        Program ...•..•.••.•.•..... . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . •                                                        57 

    Additional Court Reporters. . • . . • • . • . . • . • . • • . • • . . . . • • •                                                     58 

    Court Security. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                           58 

    Travel Regulations for .Justices and Judges •..•.•••••...                                                                           59 

    Place of Holding Court. . • . . • . • • . • . . • . • • . • • • • • • • • • . . . .                                                 59 

    Freedom of Information Act. . • • . . • • . • . • • . • • . • . • . • • . • •                                                       59 

    United States Courts Design Guide 

       Amendments. .•... .... . . . . . .. . •.... . . . ... • . . .. . . .                                                             59 

     Arbi tra tion Appeals .................................                                                                            59 

    International Arbitration Act .••••.•. . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • .                                                            60 

    Social Security Court. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                60 

    Judicial Impact Statements... . ••••• .• . . •. . . . . • . •.••••                                                                  61 

    Court Reporters' Transcript Rates. . • . . • . • . • • . • • • • • • • . .                                                          61 

    Litigation Reform Act. • • . • . . . . . • . • • . . . • • • . • • • • . • . • • .                                                  62 

    Product Liability ..................                      It   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •    62

Committee on the Budget. • . . . • . • . . • . . . . . • • . . • . • . . • . . . . •                63 

  Supplemental Appropriations for the 

       Fiscal Year 1987 •..•..•...•....•..................                                          63 

    "Gramm-Rudman-Hollings" Cost Reduction
       Measures. . • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • .    64 

   Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1988 •••.••.•...•....                                         65 

   Miscellaneous Budget Resolution . . . . • . . • . . • • • . . . • • . • . .                      66 

Judicial Ethics Committee ••.•..•.••.•.•.•..•..•.•••.••.                                            66 

Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . •                             66 

   Code of Conduct for United States Judges. • . • • . • • . • • . • •                              66 

Committee on Intercircuit Assignments........... . •••• . •.                                        67 

Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure ••••••••••••                                           67 

    Bankruptcy Rules • .,.................................                                          67 

    Civil Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    68 

    Criminal Rules.. .. .... . .... . .... . . ...... . ....... . .. .                              68 

  Gender-neutralizing Rules Amendments. • . • • . • • • • • • • • . • 68 

Committee on the Administration 

  of the Probation System. • • . • • . • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • • . • . • 69 

Committee of the Administration 

  of the Bankruptcy System •..•..••.••.••••••.••••••••• 69 

     Offical Duty Stations and Places of 

       Holding Court for Bankruptcy Judges. • • • • • . . • . . • • . • 69 

Committee on the Administration 

  of the Federal Magistrates System. • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • . • 76 

     Magistrate Selection Regulations. • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 77 

     Legal Assistant Position in Eugene, 

           Oregon. • • . • . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . ..   77 

    Changes in Magistrate Positions. • • . • . . . . • . . . . • . • • . • •                        77 

Committee to Implement the 

  Criminal Justice Act ................................                                             86 

    Appointments and Payments. . • • . . • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • . • .                        86 

    Budget Requests - Federal Public 

      Defenders ••.••.•.•.•..••...••.•...•.••.••.••••.                                              86 

    Grant Requests - Community Defender 

         OrganizQ tions . . • • . . . . • • . • • . • • • • • • • • . • • • . . . • • . • • •       88 

        Guidelines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   89 

    Apportionment of Transcript Costs. • . • • . • • . • . . • • • • • •                            90 

Committee on the Operation of the Jury System. . • • • • • • •• . •                                 90 

  Reduction in Jury Expenditures ••••••••••.•••••••••••.                                            90 

    Terms of Jury Service •••..•.••....•...•..•......•..•                                           91 

     Revisions to Petit and Grand Juror
        Handbooks •..•.•.•.........•..••.•..••.••.•..••..                                           91 

Committee on Pacific Territories... . .••.• .•••• . •. •. . •.••                                    91 

Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct 

  and Disability Orders. • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • . . • • . • •              92 



                                               vi
Committee on the Bicentennial of the
   Consti tution .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   92 

Ad Hoc Committee on American Inns of Court. • • • • • • • • • . • •                                 92 

Ad Hoc Committee on Sentencing Guidelines.. ••• • • •• ••••• .                                      93 

Proceedings under Judicial Conduct and 

   Disability Act ......................................                                            94 

Resolution ............ ., ............ ., ... .,..............                                     94 

Pretermission of Terms of the 

   Courts of Appeals. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           96 

Release of Conference Action •••..•••••.•.•..•••••••.•.•                                            97 





                                             Vii
                 REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS 

                 OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE 

                     OF THE UNITED STATES 


                     September 18-19, 1986

       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened
on September 18, 1986, pursuant to the call of the Chief
Justice of the United States issued under 28 U.S.C. 331, and
continued in session on September 19. Chief Justice Warren E.
Burger presided, and the following members of the Conference
were present:


First Circuit:

       Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
       Chief Judge Juan M. Perez-Gimenez, District of
              Puerto Rico


Second Circuit:

       Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
       Chief Judge John T. Curtin, Western District of
              New York


Third Circuit:

       Chief Judge Ruggero J. Aldisert
       Chief Judge Murray M. Schwartz, District of Delaware


Fourth Circuit:

       Judge H. Emory Widener, Jr.* 

       Judge Frank A. Kaufman, District of Maryland 





* Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge
Harrison L. Winter, who was out of the country.


                             47
Fifth Circuit:

       Chief Judge Charles Clark
       Chief Judge L. T. Senter, Jr., Northern District of
              Mississippi


Sixth Circuit:

       Chief Judge Pierce Lively
       Chief Judge 'Robert M. McRae, Jr., Eastern District of
              Tennessee


Seventh Circuit:

       Chief Judge Walter J. Cummings
       Judge Frank J. McGarr, Northern District of illinois


Eighth Circuit:

       Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
       Chief Judge John F. Nangle, Eastern District of
              Missouri


Ninth Circuit:

       Chief Judge James 'R. Browning
       Chief Judge Robert J. McNichols, Eastern District of
              Washington


Tenth Circuit:

       Chief Judge William J. Holloway
       Chief Judge Sherman G. Finesilver, District of Colorado




                              48
Eleventh Circuit:

       Judge John C. Godbold*
       Chief Judge James Lawrence King, Southern District of
              Florida


District of Columbia Circuit:

      Chief Judge Patricia M. Wald
      Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District of
             Columbia


Federal Circuit:

      Chief Judge Howard T. Markey


       Circuit Judges Frank M. Coffin, Otto R. Skopil, Jr., and
Gerald B. Tjoflat; Senior Circuit Judge John D. Butzner, Jr.;
District Judges Robert E. DeMascio and John H. Pratt; and
Senior District Judges T. Emmet Clarie, Edward T. Gignoux,
Elmo B. Hunter, and Thomas J. MacBride attended all or some
sessions of the Conference.

       Congressman Robert W. Kastenmeier, Chairman of the
House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Civil Liberties, and
the Administration of Justice, and Congressman Neal Smith,
Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on
Commerce, Justice, State, the Judiciary and Related Agencies,
attended the Conference briefly and spoke on matters pending
in the Congress of interest to the judiciary.

       The Attorney General of the United States, Honorable
Edwin Meese 3rd, and Solicitor General Charles Fried,
addressed the Conference on matters of mutual interest to the
Department of Justice and the Conference.



* Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge
Paul H. Roney, who was out of the country.


                                49
      Chief Justice LaPergola and Justices Gallo, Corasaniti
and Nevola of the Constitutional Court of Italy visited the
Conference briefly.

       L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative
Office of the United States Courts, attended the sessions of
the Conference, as did James E. Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director;
Karen K. Siegel, Special Assistant to the Deputy Director;
William R. Burchill, Jr., General Counsel; William J. Weller,
Legislative Affairs Officer;       Daniel R. Cavan, Deputy
Legislative Affairs Officer; and Deborah H. Kirk, Chief, Office
of Audit and Review. A. Leo Levin and Charles W. Nihan,
Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center,
also attended the sessions of the Conference.

      The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Professor
A. Leo Levin, presented a report on the activities of the
Center.




                             50 

                REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR 

              OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE 

              OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS 


       The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, L. Ralph Mecham, submitted to the Conference
the Annual Report of the Director for the year ended June 30,
1986. The Conference authorized the Director to release the
Annual Report immediately in preliminary form and to revise
and supplement the final printed edition.

            JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

       Mr. Mecham reported that during the year ended June
30, 1986, the number of cases appealed to the 12 regional
courts of appeals rose three percent to 34,292, due to increases
in appeals of criminal cases and private civil cases. Despite an
eight percent increase in the rate of dispositions, the number
of filings still outpaced terminations, resulting in a two
percent increase in the pending caseload. On June 30, 1986,
there were 25,276 cases pending in the courts of appeals. In
contrast, the filings in the United States Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit dropped 53 percent to 1,163 cases,
primarily because of a reduction in the number of Merit
Systems Protection Board appeals. Dispositions, however,
increased 32 percent, resulting in a reduction of 46 percent in
the pending caseload.

        In the United States district courts, the number oC civil
filings dropped for the first time in nine years. The seven
percent decrease, which resulted in 254,828 civil cases filed,
was centered in cases involving the United States government,
particularly in social security disability cases and recovery of
overpayments of veterans' benefits and defaulted student
loans. The number of civil cases disposed of exceeded filings
this year, resulting in a five percent reduction in the pending
caseload. On June 30, 1986, there were 242,177 civil cases
pending in the district courts.

       Criminal case filings, on the other hand, increased by
five percent over 1985 levels, to 41,490. On the average, there
were 72 new criminal cases for each district court judgeship
position. Although dispositions increased in 1986, they failed
to keep up with filings, with the result that the pending


                              51
caseload increased for the sixth straight year. On June 30,
1986, the pending caseload stood at 24,456, almost ten percent
more than the year before.

       Bankruptcy petitions filed rose 31 percent in 1986 to
477,856. Business bankruptcies were up over 14 percent to
76,281 petitions; non-business bankruptcies rose 35 percent to
401,575 petitions. Terminations increased over seven percent
but were below the level of new filings. On June 30, 1986, the
pending bankruptcy caseload increased almost 20 percent over
the previous year, to 728,577 petitions.

       Mr. Mecham also reported that as of September 15,
1986, there were 13 vacancies among the 168 judgeship
positions authorized for the United States courts of appeals, 36
vacancies among the 575 authorized judgeship positions in the
United States district courts, and one vacancy on the United
States Court of International Trade.

                  JUDICIAL PANBL ON 

                MULTIDISTRICT LmGATION 


        A written statement filed with the Conference by the
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation indicated that during
the year ended June 30, 1986, the Panel centralized 537 civil
actions pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407. Of that number, 351 were
transferred for coordinated or consolidated pretrial
proceedings with 186 actions originally filed in the transferee
districts. The Panel denied transfer of 130 actions.

       Since its creation in 1968, the Panel has transferred
15,026 civil actions for centralized pretrial proceedings in
carrying out its statutory responsibilities.

          COMMI'ITBE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

      Judge Frank M. Coffin, Chairman of the Committee on
the JUdicial Branch, presented the report of the Committee.

             JUDICIAL SURVIVORS' ANNUITIES

      On June 19, 1986, the President signed into law Public
Law 99-336, the Judicial Improvements Act of 1985. The new
law significantly reforms the judicial survivors' annuities


                              52
system, essentially as recommended by the Conference in 1981
(see September 1981 Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 59). For a six­
month period commencing October 1, 1986, judges who have
previously waived the right to judicial survivors' annuities may
elect such coverage, and those presently participating may
revoke their election of coverage, which is otherwise
irrevocable.      At the request of the Committee, the
Administrative Office is compiling illustrative case profiles to
assist judges in reaching these important decisions.

  COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT OF JUDICIAL SALARIES

       Section 140 of Public Law 97-92, a rider to a continuing
appropriations resolution for the fiscal year 1982, prohibits
implementation of judicial salary increases except as
specifically authorized by act of Congress. Although the reach
of section 140 appeared to be confined to the fiscal year 1982,
the Comptroller General has consistently interpreted this
provision as permanent law.        Earlier this year, despite
reaffirming his prior construction of permanency, the
Comptroller General recommended that Congress repeal
section 140.     While Congress has not yet acted on the
Comptroller General's recommendation, efforts to achieve the
repeal will continue.

         COMMlTI'EE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

      Judge Elmo B. Hunter, Chairman of the Committee on
Court Administration, presented the report of the Committee.

                  ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS

       The Committee reviewed the results of the 1986
biennial survey of judgeship needs conducted by the
Subcommittee on Judicial Statistics and voted to recommend
the creation of additional judgeships in the United States
courts of appeals and in the United States district courts.
Since the Congress has not as yet acted on the Conference
recommendations for additional judgeships resulting from the
1984 biennial survey, the current recommendations include
those previously made by the Conference.




                              53 

       The Conference voted to recommend the creation of
additional judgeship positions in the following United States
courts of appeals:

      Third Circuit                                          2
      Fourth Circuit .......•...•.•...•                      4
      Fifth Circuit ••••.••.•••...••.••                      1
      Eighth Circuit •.••••••...•••.•.•                      1
      Tenth Circuit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
      Eleventh Circuit •...•••.•••••.•.•                     3

              TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     13 


       The Conference also voted to recommend the creation
of additional permanent and temporary judgeships in the
following United States district courts:

      First Circuit:

               Massachusetts                                 1 + 1 temp.

      Second Circuit:

               Connecticut ••••••••••.••••                   1
               New York (N) •.••.••..••.••                   1 temp.
               New York (E) .•••.•..••..••                   I
               New York (S) •••.••••••.•.•                   1

      Third Circuit:

               New Jersey                                    3 + I temp.
               Virgin Islands •....••.••••••                 I

      Fourth Circuit:

               Maryland. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •     1 + 1 temp. 

               South Carolina • . • . • • • • • • • • •      1

               Virginia (E) •.•••••••••••••                  1 temp. 


       Fifth Circuit:

               Louisiana (M) ••.•••••.•.•.•                  1 temp.
               Louisiana (W) • • • • • •••••••••             I
               Mississippi (S) ••••••••••••••                1 temp.


                                    54 

              Texas (E) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •     I temp.
              Texas (8) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     3
              Texas (W). • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •      I

       Sixth Circuit:

              Michigan (W) ••••••••••••••                     I temp.
              Ohio (N) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    I
              Ohio (S) •••••..•.••••••.••                     2
              Tennessee (E) ••••••••••••••                    I
              Tennessee (M) •••••••••.•••                     I temp.

       Seventh Circuit:

              Illinois (N)                                    I + t/p*
              Illinois (C)                                    I temp.
              Indiana (S)                                     I temp.

       Eighth Circuit:

              Arkansas (W) ••.••••••••••••                    I
              Iowa (S) • • . . . . . • . . . . • • . • . .    1
              1\1 issouri (E) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •   I
              Nebraska . . • . . • . . . • . • • . . • .      1

       Ninth Circuit:

              California (N) ••••••••••••••                   2
              California (E) ••••••••••••••                   1 temp.
              California (C) ••••••••••••••                   5
              Hawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    I temp.
              Idaho . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   I temp.
              Nevada                                          I temp.
              Oregon                                          I

       Tenth Circuit:

              Colorado                                        I
              Kansas ••.••••••••••••••••                      I




*   Existing temporary position to be made permanent.


                                    55
              Oklahoma (N) . . . . . • . • . . . . • .    1

              Oklahoma (W). • • . . • • . • • . . . •     3


       Eleventh Circuit:

              Alabama (N). • . • • . . . • • . . • • .    I

              Florida (M). . • • . • . . . • . . . • ..   1


                      TOTAL .•.•.••.•.•••                 40 + 16
                                                          temporary +
                                                          I temporary
                                                          to be made
                                                          permanent

       The Conference also recommended that a roving
judgeship in the State of Kentucky be made a permanent
judgeship for the Eastern District of Kentucky; that the two
roving judgeships for the State of Arkansas be made permanent
judgeships for the Eastern District of Arkansas; and that the
roving judgeship for the State of Iowa be made a permanent
judgeship for the Northern District of Iowa.

       On several occasions, most recently in March, 1986
(Conf. Rpt., p. 17), the Judicial Conference has recommended
that diversity of citizenship jurisdiction in the federal courts
be abolished. Were diversity jurisdiction to be eliminated, the
necessary number of new district court judgeships would be
reduced from 56 to 15, resulting in a recurring appropriations
expenditure avoidance of many millions of dollars. The
Conference directed that, until such time as Congress
eliminates diversity jurisdiction, future transmittals of JUdicial
Conference judgeship recommendations include detailed
figures showing the impact of the elimination of diversity
jurisdiction on judgeship requirements.

        LIBRARIAN QUALIFICATION STANDARDS; 

           QUALIFICATION STANDARDS FOR 

     PROBATION AND PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICERS 


      The Conference approved amendments to the Judiciary
Salary Plan qualification requirements for circuit librarians,
deputy circuit librarians, and assistant librarians, to include a
master's degree in library or information science, or a law
degree if there is law library experience (where experience is


                                  56
required) at the next lower level to that at which the
appointment is sought. Personnel employed five years or more
as of September 18, 1986, may qualify for advancement to
deputy     librarian    and  assistant librarian    positions
notwithstanding approval of the amendments, if their training
and experience would have qualified them for advancement
prior to the revisions.

       The Conference also approved qualification criteria for
probation and pretrial services officers.

             LAW CLERKS AND THE LEAVE ACT

        From 1949 to 1983, regulations promulgated on behalf
of the Judicial Conference by the Director of the
Administrative Office authorized each Article III judge to
elect whether his or her personal staff would be covered by the
leave provisions of 5 U.S.C. 6301-6323. The September 1983
JUdicial Conference, noting the conclusion by the Committee
on Court Administration that nall employees of the Judiciary,
except judges, are entitled to both annual and sick leave
benefits under the provisions of Chapter 63 of Title 511 , adopted
the Committee's recommendation that all new secretaries to
judicial officers be placed under the Leave Act (Conf. Rpt., pp.
49-50).    The Committee held for further evaluation any
application of the Leave Act to law clerks.

       After additional study, the Committee has determined
that current practice permitting discretionary application of
the Leave Act to law clerks cannot be supported under present
law. The Committee was likewise persuaded, however, that
mandatory coverage of law clerks under the Leave Act is
inappropriate. The Committee therefore recommended that
the Leave Act, 5 U.S.C. 6301, be amended to exclude law
clerks, unless specifically included by the judge or by local rule
of court. The Conference voted to support this legislative
change.

     JUDICIARY EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY 

                     PROGRAM 


      Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved revisions to the Judiciary's Model Equal
Employment Opportunity Plan (formerly "Model Affirmative


                               57
Action Plann) and Discrimination Complaint Procedures.
Among other things, the revisions prohibit age discrimination
in the courts to the same extent prohibited in the executive
branch under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, as
amended; specify grounds upon which a complaint may be
rejected or cancelled; set forth the relief that may be granted
to complainants; Ilnd reduce the EEO reporting burden on the
courts.

       The Conference also amended the last sentence of its
March 1980 resolution on equal employment opportunity (Conf.
Rpt., p. 5) to eliminate the requirement that all equal
employment opportunity annual reports be reprinted in a costly
annual volume, and to change the date for submission of the
Administrative Office's annual report on EEO implementation
to that of the March Judicial Conference.

             ADDITIONAL COURT REPORTERS

        The Conference approved the addition of a combination
court reporter/courtroom deputy clerk position in the Middle
District of Tennessee and an additional court reporter position
in the Northern District of New York, and declined to approve
additional court reporter positions in the Northern District of
Illinois, the Southern District of Iowa, the District of
Massachusetts, and the Eastern District of New York.

                      COURT SECURITY

       Three similar bills pending in the 99th Congress at the
request of the Department of Justice (H.R. 4001, S. 2044, and
Title III of S. 2376, 99th Congress) would "establish a United
States Marshals Service". Among other things, the bills would
repeal 28 U.S.C. 569, which provides that the United States
marshals "may, in the discretion of the respective courts, be
required to attend any session of court."

       The Conference voted to oppose any change in 28 U.S.C.
569. It was suggested that abuses in the use of marshals should
be handled through the mechanism of the Judicial Conduct and
Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. 372(c), rather than by stripping
judicial officers of the power to require the attendance of
marshals in court.



                             58
   TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

       The Conference reaffirmed the approval by its
Executive Committee in July, 1986, of new travel regulations
for justices and judges.

                 PLACE OF HOLDING COURT

       Upon the recommendations of the Southern District of
Georgia, the JUdicial Council of the Eleventh Circuit, and the
Committee, the Conference voted to support enactment of
H.R. 3284 and 4095, bills to amend 28 U.S.C. 90(c) by changing
the county makeup of the divisions within the Southern District
of Georgia.

              FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT

     The Conference endorsed the position of the Director of
the Administrative Office opposing coverage of the
Administrative Office under the Freedom of Information Act.

  UNITED STATES COURTS DESIGN GUIDE AMENDMENTS

       The Conference adopted the United States Courts
Design Guide in March, 1984 (Conf. Rpt., p. 8). In view of
subsequent developments, ~, the Bankruptcy Amendments
and Federal Judgeship Act of 1984 (P.L. 98-353), the
Conference approved a revised Chapter 9 of the Guide ("The
Bankruptcy Court"), reflecting changes in bankruptcy
jurisdiction but making no changes in space allocations for
bankruptcy judge chambers, courtrooms, and/or support staffs.

       The Conference also approved a new Chapter 20 dealing
with "Parking". The new parking policy creates categories of
parking, in descending priority order. In the event the JUdicial
Conference were to determine that parking savings were
necessary, the guidelines permit each circuit council to be
given a target savings figure to meet by applying the priorities.

                   ARBITRATION APPEALS

       H.R. 4975, 99th Congress, would amend the United
States Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. 1 et. se~) (1) to clarify the
appeals doctrine in this area, which is con used and irrational;


                              59
and (2) to respond to the needs of arbitration as a system of
dispute resolution by generally denying immediate appeals
from orders giving arbitration precedence over litigation and
permitting immediate appeals from orders giving litigation
precedence over arbitration. The Conference considered this a
sensible approach and voted to support the legislation.

            INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION ACT

       S. 1395 and H.R. 4342, 99th Congress, are substantively
identical bills to amend the statutory provisions implementing
the Convention on Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign
Arbitration Awards. The Conference found the issues posed by
the legislation to be matters for the Congress that would not
appreciably affect the workload of the federal courts.

                 SOCIAL SECURITY COURT

       In 1981 and 1982, the Judicial Conference approved
legislation to create an Article I executive branch Social
Security Court with judicial review by Article III courts.
However, the Conference objected to concentrating all appeals
in one court of appeals (in that case, the Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit), recommending instead that
appellate review be provided in the same manner as appeals
from the Tax Court, i.e., to the appropriate geographic court
of appeals (SeptemberJ.981 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 67-68;
September 1982 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 64-65).

       A new proposal drafted by the Department of Justice
would establish an Article I Social Security Court in the
judicial branch rather than the executive branch, with
discretionary review in the United States Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit. The effect of the draft bill would be to
shift about 30,000 cases from federal district courts to the new
judicial branch Article I court. Over 1,200 social security
appeals would be concentrated in the Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit, nearly doubling that court's caseload.

       The Judicial Conference has consistently opposed the
establishment of specialized courts in the judicial branch (e.g.,
September 1962 Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 54). Moreover, the
Conference adheres to the view that the convenience of the
litigants and the problems inherent in placing the entire burden


                              60
of social security review on a single Article III appellate court
outweigh the goal of uniformity sought by review in a single
forum. The Conference therefore voted to recommend that, in
the event of creation of an executive branch Article I Social
Security Court, appeals should lie to the geographic courts of
appeals rather than to a single court of appeals.
              JUDICIAL IMPACT STATEMENTS

       The Conference endorsed the proposition that any
federal legislation having a potential for increasing appreciably
federal judicial workloads be accompanied at the time of
House or Senate consideration by an evaluation of the
prospective quantitative impact on the courts.

         COURT REPORTERS' TRANSCRIPT RATES

       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 753(f), each court reporter may
charge and collect fees for transcripts requested by the
parties, at rates prescribed by the courts subject to the
approval of the Judicial Conference. Effective October I,
1986, the Conference authorized the following temporary
increases in the maximum allowable transcript rates, subject
to further action of the Conference following committee
reports, and provided that these maximum rates will not apply
to any transcripts paid for by the government, to include
payments under the Criminal Justice Act, as long as "Gramm­
Rudman-Hollings" (p .L. 99-177) is in effect:
                  Maximum Transcript Rates
                                                 Each Addt'l
                            First Copy to        Copy to the
              Original       Each Party          Same Party

Ordinary
Transcript     $3.00               $ .75            $ .50
Expedited
Transcript     $4.00               $ .75            $ .50
Daily
Transcript     $5.00            $1.00               $ .75

Hourly
Transcript     $6.00            $1.00               $ .75


                              61
       It is expected that the Ad Hoc Committee on Court
Reporters of the Court Administration Subcommittee on
Supporting Personnel, appointed to study the subject of court
reporters, will (through the Court Administration Committee)
report on the temporary rate increases at the next Judicial
Conference session in March, 1987.

                  LITIGATION REFORM ACT

        S. 2046, 99th Congress, would curb alleged abuse in civil
liability litigation. The bill would create a new chapter in title
28 of the United States Code entitled "Limitations and
Procedures Regarding Civil Damages" covering, inter alia,
limitations on lump sum payments, exclusion of collateral
source benefits, damages for economic losses, contingency
fees, and punitive damages.

        S. 2046 basically involves policy matters primarily for
the Congress. However, the Conference agreed (1) to express
disapproval of a provision (proposed 28 U.S.C. 2l26(c)(2»
requiring payment of punitive damages awards to the United
States Treasury "for the use of the Administrative Office of
the United States Courts or the Federal Judicial Center1t ; (2) to
point out that the legislation would, in effect, overrule Erie v.
Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64 (1938), in cases covered by the bill; and
(3) to urge Congress to assess carefully the potential impact of
tort liability legislation on the workload of the federal courts.

                     PRODUCT LIABILITY

       In September, 1985, the Conference voted to oppose
section 17 of S. 100, the proposed "Product Liability Act".
That section, which would have required the Conference to
establish a Product Liability Review Panel to review the
adequacy of existing remedies for loss or damages caused by
products, would have "inappropriately interject[edJ the
Conference    into   policy  formulation    and legislative
recommendation in areas traditionally considered to be
matters for the Congress" (September 1985 Session, Conf.
Rpt., p. 52).

       As was the case with S. 100, the basic issues involved in
a new product liability bill (S. 1999, 99th Congress) raise
questions of policy better left to Congressional resolution.


                               62
However, concern was raised in the Conference about two
sections of this new legislation. Section III would create an
independent Product Liability Review Board, with three
members selected by the Conference and four by the National
Academy of Sciences, to assess the expedited procedures and
remedies provided by the Act. The Conference found that
reposing in the Judicial Conference the power to appoint
nearly half of the members of this Panel would still
"inappropriately interject the Conference into policy
formulation and legislative recommendation in areas
traditionally considered to be matters for the Congress". In
addition, section 208 would permit a product liability suit to be
removed from federal to state court based exclusively on a
lapse of time without trial in state court. The Conference did
not consider mere lapse of time to be an appropriate basis for
removal, and voted to oppose this section as well.
                COMMITTEE OM THE BUDGET

       Chief Judge Charles Ciark, Chairman of the Committee
on the Budget, presented the report of the Committee.

             SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS 

                FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1987 


       Judge Clark reported that, beginning in the fiscal year
1987, Congress has approved the consolida tion of the
appropriations for "Salaries of Judges", "Salaries of Supporting
Personnel ll , "Expenses of Operation and Maintenance of the
Courtsll, and "Space and Facilitiesll into a single account
entitled "Salaries and Expenses". This merger should promote
much greater flexibility and facilitate the transfer of funds
between the various programs and activities of the courts of
appeals and district courts. The appropriations for "Defender
Services", "Fees of Jurors and Commissioners", and "Court
Security" remain separate.

       Judge Clark also reported that supplemental
requirements for the fiscal year 1987 include a pay cost
supplemental in the amount of $26,024,000, to fund pay
increases, increases for health benefits, and a new retirement
system for employees hired on or after January 1, 1984, and
program supplementals in the amount of $25,445,000, as
follows: $6,600,000 to fund higher travel rates, a higher


                              63
Federal Telecommunications Service (FTS) rate, and telephone
acquisitions; $7,200,000 for rental of space; $4,500,000 for an
additional 400 deputy clerks in the bankruptcy courts, due to a
huge increase in bankruptcy filings predicted for the fiscal
year 1987; and $7,145,000 for the appropriation "Defender
Services". An additional program supplemental will probably
be required to fund the liberalized benefits under the judicial
survivors' annuities system resulting from enactment of the
JUdicial Improvements Act of 1985 (see pp. 52-53, supra).
Additional program supplementals likely to result from passage
of pending legislation include bills approved by both Houses for
52 additional bankruptcy judgeships (estimated cost
$18,000,000), amendments to the Criminal Justice Act
(estimated cost $10,000,000), and expansion of the drug
dependent offenders provisions to include persons who are
alcohol-dependent (estimated cost $3,000,000).

       The Conference authorized the Director of the
Administrative Office to submit to the Congress all of the
foregoing supplemental appropriations requests for the fiscal
year 1987, and also authorized the Director to amend the
requests because of any new legislation, action taken by the
Judicial Conference, or for any other reason the Director
considers necessary and appropriate.

                "GRAMM-R UOMAN-HOLLINGS"
                 COST REDUCTION MEASURES

        In view of limited resources available in the fiscal year
1987 resulting from Public Law 99-177, the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 ("Gramm-Rudman­
Hollings"), the Conference agreed to the following cost
reduction measures: restricting temporary employment of
secretaries, law clerks, legal assistants, and clerical personnel
for judges and magistrates to emergency situations or
extraordinary circumstances, except for extended absences due
to illness or maternity leave; restricting overlapping
appointments to those judicial officers who have only a single
secretary or law clerk/legal assistant, or where the cost is
offset by a vacancy during the transition period; staffing
clerks' offices, probation, and pretrial services at a level not to
exceed 94 percent of the established formula allowances;
reevaluating the need for resident deputy clerks, or probation
or pretrial services personnel, in divisional offices where the


                               64
filings or workload does not justify a divisional office;
restricting first-class travel to those judges who must travel
first-class due to physical disabilities; restricting to two
persons the staff that may accompany a judge sitting outside
that judge's district or circuit, and to three persons the staff
that may accompany a circuit judge sitting within the circuit;
restricting the use of express mail to those items for which
delivery within 24 hours is essential; and requiring circuit
librarians to evaluate the proper content of chambers libraries
to control lawbook acquisition expenses. The Conference
voted to grant the circuit judicial councils the power to make
exceptions to the reduction measures, in accordance with
guidelines to be developed by the Administrative Office. The
Administrative Office also was assigned the responsibility of
monitoring the exceptions granted by the circuit councils and
advising if budgetary ceilings are being approached.

      APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1988

       The Conference approved the budget estimates for the
fiscal year 1988. The estimates, exclusive of the Supreme
Court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit, the Court of International Trade, and the Federal
JUdicial Center, total $1,335,280,000, an increase of
$160,511 ,000 or 14 percent above the amount allowed by the
Senate Appropriations Committee for the fiscal year 1987,
adjusted to reflect proposed pay cost and program
supplemental appropriations requests. Provision has been made
in the budget estimates for an additional 1,785 permanent
positions. Approximately 48 percent of the increases in the
budget are for mandatory or uncontrollable costs such as
within-grade salary advancements and promotions, increases in
contract rates and charges for equipment, services, and
supplies, and rental increases for space occupied by the
courts. The remaining increases are for workload increases,
new legislation, and new program initiatives necessary to
maintain the same level of support and services required by the
rapidly growing workload of the judiciary.

       The Conference also reaffirmed its prior policies
(September 1973 Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 73; March 1975
Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 20-21; September 1985 Session, Conf.
Rpt., p. 64) governing the use of firearms by probation and



                             65
pretrial services officers, and directed that funding for
firearms training be added to the fiscal year 1988 budget
estimates.

       The Director of the Administrative Office was
authorized to amend the budget estimates because of new
legislation, action taken by the Judicial Conference, or for any
other reason the Director considers necessary and appropriate.

          MISCELLANEOUS BUDGET RESOLUTION

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference directed the Administrative Office to study the
possibility of the judiciary undertaking its own buildings design,
leasing, construction, and maintenance.

                JUDICIAL ETmCS COMMITTEE

    Judge John H. Pratt, Chairman of the Judicial Ethics
Committee, presented the report of the Committee.

       As of September, 1986, the Committee had received
1,951 financial disclosure reports for the calendar year 1986,
including 999 reports from jUdicial officers and 952 reports
from judicial employees, and had addressed 442 letters of
inquiry to reporting individualS.

     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

       Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the
Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct, presented the
report of the Committee.

       Since its last report, the Committee received 20
inquiries and issued 18 advisory responses. The Chairman also
responded to 34 telephone inquiries that did not require
reference to the Committee. The Committee is publishing
opinions dealing with the use of chambers, resources, and staff
for activities permitted by Canons 4 and 5.

     CODE OF CONDUCT FOR UNITED STATES JUDGES

      The Conference adopted and promulgated a revised
Code of JUdicial Conduct for United States Judges. Among


                               66
other things, the revised Code eliminates gender-specific
language and adds new subparagraphs to Canons 4 and 5
regarding the use of judicial chambers, resources, and staff for
engaging in law-related or extra-judicial activities.
       COMMITrEE ON INTERCIRCUlT ASSIGNMENTS

       The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments filed a
report indicating that during the period February 16, 1986,
through August 15, 1986, the Committee had recommended 35
intercircuit assignments to be undertaken by 24 judges. Of this
number, three were senior circuit judges, four were active
circuit judges, 11 were senior district judges, two were active
district judges, two were senior judges of the Court of
International Trade, and two were active judges of the Court
of International Trade.
       Of the 35 assignments approved, 13 judges undertook 18
assignments to the courts of appeals, and 13 judges undertook
17 assignments to the district courts.

 COMMITrEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

       Judge Edward T. Gignoux, Chairman of the Standing
Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, presented the
report of the Committee.
                    BANKRUPTCY RULES

      The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed
amendments to the Bankruptcy Rules to conform them to the
sUbstantive and procedural changes in the Bankruptcy Code
enacted by the Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal Judgeship
Act of 1984 (P .L. 98-353), and to eliminate gender-specific
language. The proposed amendments were accompanied by
Committee Notes explaining their purpose and intent, and by a
separate report from the Chairman of the Advisory Committee
on Bankruptcy Rules summarizing the Advisory Committee's
work.    The Conference approved the amendments, and
transmitted them to the Supreme Court for consideration, with
a recommendation that they be approved by the Court and
transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law.




                             67
       The Conference also approved conforming amendments
to the Bankruptcy Official Forms.
                         CIVIL RULES

       The Committee submitted to the Conference a proposed
amendment to Civil Rule 51 (IIInstructions to Jury: Objection"),
together with Committee Notes explaining the purpose and
intent of the amendment, and a separate report from the
Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Civil Rules
summarizing the Advisory Committee's work. The Conference
approved the amendment, and transmitted it to the Supreme
Court for consideration, with a recommendation that it be
approved by the Court and transmitted to the Congress
pursuant to law.

                      CRIMINAL RULES
        The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed
amendments to Criminal Rules 6{a) (liThe Grand Jury") and 30
("Instructions"), together with Committee Notes explaining the
purpose and intent of the amendments, and a separate report
from the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Criminal
Rules summarizing the Advisory Committee's work. The
Conference, after making a minor change to proposed Rule
6{a)(2), approved the amendments, and transmitted them to the
Supreme Court for consideration, with a recommendation that
they be approved by the Court and transmitted to the Congress
pursuant to law.
      GENDER-NEUTRALIZING RULES AMENDMENTS
        The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed
amendments to the Civil, Criminal, and Evidence Rules to
eliminate gender-specific language. The amendments were
accompanied by Com mittee Notes explaining their purpose and
intent.    The Conference approved the amendments and
transmitted them to the Supreme Court for consideration, with
a recommendation that they be approved by the Court and
transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law.




                              68 

         COMMITrEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                   PROBATION SYSTEM

       Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat, Chairman of the Committee on
the Administration of the Probation System, presented the
report of the Committee.

       Judge Tjoflat reported on pending legislation of interest
to the Conference,         including amendments        to the
Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 (P.L. 98-473), to
the Criminal Fine Enforcem ent Act of 1984 (p .L. 98-596), and
to the drug aftercare program.

      COMMITrEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
               BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

       Judge Robert E. Del\1ascio, Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System, presented the
report of the Committee.

                OFFICIAL DUTY STATIONS AND 

                 PLACES OF HOLDING COURT 

                  FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES 


       The Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal Judgeship Act
of 1984 (P.L. 98-353) re-enacted the authority of the Judicial
Conference to determine the official duty stations and places
of holding court for bankruptcy judges in each judicial
district. 28 U.S.C. I 52(b)(1). Judge DeMascio reported that
the Committee had adopted guidelines for designating places
of holding court. The Committee thereafter conducted a
district-by-district review and recommended changes in the
places of holding court for bankruptcy purposes.          The
Conference agreed to the following recommended changes:
                         FIRST CIRCUIT

Maine:

         Eliminate Augusta, Auburn, Caribou, and Waterville as
         places of holding court; Add Presque Isle as a place of
         holding court




                               69
Massachusetts:

      Eliminate Pittsfield and Taunton as places of holding
      court

New Hampshire:

      Eliminate Concord as a place of holding court

                     SECOND CIRCUIT

Connecticut:

      Eliminate New Haven as a place of holding court

New York (N):

      Eliminate :Malone as a place of holding court

New York (S):

      Eliminate Kingston, Newburg, and Suffern as places of
      holding court

Vermont:
      Eliminate Bennington, Brattleboro, and St. Johnsbury as
      places of holding court

                      THIRD CIRCUIT

Delaware:

      Eliminate Dover and Georgetown as places of holding
      court

Pennsylvania (E):

      Eliminate Easton as a place of holding court

Pennsylvania (M):

      Eliminate Lewisburg as a place of holding court



                             70
Pennsylvania (W):

       Eliminate Greensburg, Mercer, and Warren as places of
       holding court
                      FOURTH CIRCUIT

Maryland:

       Eliminate Easton and Hagerstown as places of holding
       court

North Carolina (E):

       Eliminate Raleigh as a place of holding court; Add
       Wilmington and Elizabeth City as places of holding
       court

       Designate Raleigh as an official duty station

North Carolina (W):

       Add Statesville as a place of holding court

South Carolina:

       Eliminate Greenville as a place of holding court; Add
       Spartanburg as a place of holding court
Virginia (W):

       Eliminate Bristol, Covington, and Winchester as places
       of holding court; Add Big Stone Gap and Woodstock as
       places of holding court

West Virginia (N):

       Eliminate Fairmont as a place of holding court

                        FIFTH CIRCUIT

Mississippi (N):

       Eliminate Clarksdale as a place of holding court


                              71
Mississippi (8):

        Eliminate Vicksburg as a place of holding court

                         SIXTH CIRCUIT

Kentucky (E):

        Eliminate Catlettsburg and Jackson as places of holding
        court; Add Ashland as a place of holding court

Michigan (E):

        Eliminate Pontiac as a place of holding court; Add Flint
        as a place of holding court

        Eliminate Flint as an official duty station

Ohio (N):

        Eliminate Freemont, Jefferson, Lima, and Marion as
        places of holding court

Tennessee (E):

        Eliminate Athens as a place of holding court

                       SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Illinois (N):

        Eliminate Dixon, Freeport, Ottawa, and Sterling as
        places of holding court

Illinois (C):

        Eliminate Mattoon as a place of holding court

Illinois (S):

        Eliminate Cairo as a place of holding court




                               72
Indiana (N):

       Eliminate Hammond and Peru as places of holding court;
       Add Lafayette as a place of holding court

Wisconsin (W):

       Eliminate Superior as a place of holding court

                       EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Arkansas (E    « W):
       Add Pine Bluff as a place of holding court

Iowa (N):

       Add Mason City as a place of holding court

Minnesota:

       Eliminate Rochester and St. Cloud as places of holding
       court; Add Duluth as a place of holding court

       Eliminate Duluth as an official duty station

Missouri (W):

       Eliminate Cape Girardeau, Hannibal, St. Joseph, and St.
       Louis as places of holding court

Nebraska:

       Eliminate Grand Island as a place of holding court

North Dakota:

       Add Grand Forks as a place of holding court

South Dakota:

       Eliminate Deadwood as a place of holding court




                              73
                         NINTH CIRCUIT 


Arizona:

         Eliminate Safford as a place of holding court; Add
         Sierra Vista as a place of holding court

California (N):

         Eliminate Salinas and Santa Rosa* as places of holding
         court; Add Eureka* and Monterey as places of holding
         court

         Eliminate Eureka* as an official duty station; Designate
         Santa Rosa* as an official duty station

California (E):

         Eliminate Ceres, Chico, Marysville, and Merced as
         places of holding court

California (C):

         Eliminate Riverside, San Luis Obispo, and Ventura as
         places of holding court
California (S):

         Eliminate EI Centro as a place of holding court

Hawaii:

         Eliminate Agana and Saipan as places of holding court;
         Add Kailua-Kona as a place of holding court

Idaho:

         Add Jerome and Moscow as places of holding court




*To become effective upon the retirement of the incumbent at
Eureka sometime late in 1986 or in 1987.


                                74
Montana:

      Add Great Falls as a place of holding court

      Eliminate Great Falls as an official duty station

Nevada:

      Eliminate Carson City, Elko, and Ely as places of
      holding court

Oregon:

      Eliminate Astoria, La Grande, Lincoln City, The Dalles,
      and Tillamook as places of holding court

Washington (E):

      Eliminate Walla Walla as a place of holding court

Washington (W):

      Eliminate Bellingham as a place of holding court; Add
      Kelso as a place of holding court

                      TENTH CIRCUIT

Kansas:
      Eliminate Fort Scott and Salina as places of holding
      court

New Mexico:

      Eliminate Clovis, Las Vegas, Santa Fe, and Silver City
      as places of holding court
Oklahoma (E):

      Eliminate Ardmore as a place of holding court




                             75
Oklahoma (W):

        Eliminate Woodward as a place of holding court; Add
        Enid and Lawton as places of holding court

Wyoming:

        Eliminate Green River, Sheridan, and Worland as places
        of holding court

                       ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Alabama (N):

         Add Talladega as a place of holding court

Florida (1\1:):

        Add Ft. Myers as a place of holding court

Florida (S):

         Eliminate Key West as a place of holding court

Georgia (N):

         Eliminate Carrollton as a place of holding court

Georgia (M):

         Add Valdosta as a place of holding court

Georgia (S):

         Add Dublin and Statesboro as places of holding court

         COMMITBE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
             FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

      Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jr., Chairman of the Committee
on the Administration of the Federal Magistrates System,
presented the report of the Committee.




                                76
          MAGISTRATE SELECTION REGULATIONS
       Section 63I(b)(5) of title 28 requires a merit selection
panel to be appointed by the court to assist the judges in
identifying and recommending the best qualified applicants to
serve as United States magistrates.          The implementing
Conference regulations specify that "The panel shall consist of
lawyers and other members of the community." (Sec. 3.02(c».
       The Committee has been of the view that the spirit of
the statute and the Conference regulations is violated when
federal judges and other officers and employees of the court
are appointed as members of panels, except for those panels
dealing with the appointments of part-time magistrates whose
salaries are less than one-third of the salary of full-time
magistrates.    The Conference approved amendments to
sections 3.02(c) and 5.01(a) of the selection regulations to
make the prohibition on the service of court officers and
employees on panels explicit.

    LEGAL ASSISTANT POSITION IN EUGENE, OREGON
       In 1\1arch, 1980 (Conf. Rpt., p. 33), the Conference
established the principle that "The number of legal assistant
positions authorized in any district may not exceed a ratio of
one assistant per full-time magistrate position." At the
Committee's request, the Conference granted a one-year
exception to the general rule for an additional legal assistant
position for the magistrate at Eugene, Oregon, in lieu of
authorizing additional magistrate resources for the district.
           CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS
       After consideration of the report of the Committee and
the recommendations of the Director of the Administrative
Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the
circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in
salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time
magistrate positions.     Unless otherwise indicated, these
changes are to be effective when appropriated funds are
available.




                             77 

                          FIRST CIRCUIT 


Maine:

         Continued the part-time magistrate position at Bangor
         for an additional four-year term at the currently
         authorized salary of $34,200 per annum.

Massachusetts:

         Continued the full-time magistrate position at Boston
         which is due to expire on August 5, 1987, for an
         additional eight-year term.

                         SECOND CIRCUIT

New York (E):

         Continued the part-time magistrate position at
         Patchogue for an additional four-year term at the
         currently authorized salary of $5,037 per annum.

New York (S):

         (1) 	   Continued the two full-time magistrate positions
                 at New York City which are due to expire on
                 August 5, 1987, and April 2, 1988, respectively,
                 for additional eight-year terms.

         (2) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
                 White Plains or New York City which is due to
                 expire on August 5, 1987, for an additional eight­
                 year term.

         (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                 Poughkeepsie for an additional four-year term,
                 but reduced the salary from $11,195 to $7,164
                 per annum.




                                 78 

                       THIRD CIRCUIT 


New Jersey:
      (1) 	   Authorized an additional full-time magistrate
              position at Camden.
      (2) 	   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
              Trenton which is due to expire on March 21,
              1987, for an additional eight-year term.
      (3) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              Trenton which is due to expire on June 14, 1987,
              for an additional four-year term at the currently
              authorized salary of $15,225 per annum, but
              discontinued the position upon the appointment
              of a second full-time magistrate at Camden.

Pennsylvania (E):
      (1) 	   Continued the four full-time magistrate positions
              at Philadelphia which are due to expire in 1987
              for additional eight-year terms.
      (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              Allentown for an additional four-year term, but
              reduced the salary from $7,164 to $4,030 per
              annum, effective at the start of the new term.
Pennsylvania (M):
      (1) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              Williamsport for an additional four-year term at
              the currently authorized salary of $4,030 per
              annum.
      (2) 	   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              Stroudsburg for an additional four-year term at
              the currently authorized salary of $15,225 per
              annum.




                             79 

                          FOURTH CIRCUIT 


North Carolina (E):

       Continued the full-time magistrate position at New
       Bern for an additional eight-year term.

Virginia (E):

       0) 	     Continued the full-time magistrate position at
                Alexandria which is due to expire on December
                31, 1987, for an additional eight-year term.

       (2) 	    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
                Norfolk which is due to expire on June 30, 1987,
                for an additional eight-year term.

       (3) 	    Changed the location of the full-time magistrate
                position at Williamsburg to Newport News.

West Virginia (N):

       Continued the full-time magistrate position at Elkins
       for an additional eight-year term.

                            FIFTH CIRCUIT

Louisiana (1\1):

        Converted the part-time magistrate position at Baton
        Rouge to a full-time position.
Louisiana (W):

       0)       Authorized a new full-time magistrate position
                to serve the district at Alexandria/Monroe.

        (2) 	      Discontinued the part-time magistrate positions
                   at Alexandria and Monroe upon the filling of the
                   new full-time magistrate position.




                                  80
       (3) 
    Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
                Alexandria and Monroe in the interim for
                additional four-year terms at their current salary
                levels of $34,200 and $2,015 per annum,
                respectively.

Texas (W):

       (1)      Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                Pecos for an additional four-year term at the
                currently authorized salary of $29,946 per
                annum.

       (2)      Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                Midland/Odessa for an additional four-year term,
                and increased the salary from $9,179 to $20,039
                per annum.

                         SIXTH CIRCUIT

Michigan (W):

       (I)      Continued the full-time magistrate position at
                Grand Rapids which is due to expire on March 31,
                1988, for an additional eight-year term.

       (2)      Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                Marquette for an additional four-year term, and
                increased the salary from $2,015 to $34,200 per
                annum.
Ohio (N):

      (1)       Continued the full-time magistrate position at
                Cleveland which is due to expire on September
                13, 1987, for an additional eight-year term.

      (2)       Continued the full-time magistrate position at
                Toledo for an additional eight-year term.




                                81
                        SEVENTH CIRCUIT 


Illinois (N):

        Continued the full-time magistrate position at Chicago
        which 	 is due to expire on March 11, 1987, for an
        additional eight-year term.

Wisconsin (E):

        (1) 	    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
                 Milwaukee which is due to expire on October 31,
                 1987, for an additional eight-year term.

        (2) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                 Green Bay for an additional four-year term at
                 the currently authorized salary of $4,030 per
                 annum.

Wisconsin (W):

        Continued the part-time magistrate position at Eau
        Claire for an additional four-year term, but reduced the
        salary from $4,030 to $2,015 per annum.

                         EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Arkansas (W):

        (1) 	    Continued the full-time magistrate position at
                 Fort Smith for an additional eight-year term.
        (2) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                 Harrison for an additional four-year term at the
                 currently authorized salary of $4,030 per annum.

        (3) 	    Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                 El Dorado for an additional four-year term, but
                 reduced the salary from $3,022 to $2,015 per
                 annum.




                                82 

Missouri (W):

       Continued the full-time magistrate position at Kansas
       City which is due to expire on May 2, 1987, for an
       additional eight-year term.
South Dakota:

       Continued the part-time magistrate position at
       Aberdeen for an additional four-year term at the
       currently authorized salary of $3,022 per annum.

                         NINTH CIRCUIT
California (E):
       (0       Continued the full-time magistrate position at
                Sacramento which is due to expire on April 30,
                1987, for an additional eight-year term.
       (2)      Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                Bishop for an additional four-year term at the
                currently authorized salary of $7,164 per annum.
       (3)      Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                South Lake Tahoe for an additional four-year
                term at the currently authorized salary of $7,164
                per annum.
       (4)      Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                Yreka for an additional four-year term at the
                currently authorized salary of $3,022 per annum.

       (5)      Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks for an
                additional four-year term, but reduced the salary
                from $17,352 to $11,195 per annum.

Hawaii:
       (1)      Continued the part-time magistrate position at
                Hilo for an additional four-year term, and
                increased the salary from $4,030 to $5,037 per
                annum.

                               83 

        (2)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              Wailuku for an additional four-year term at the
              currently authorized salary of $2,015 per annum.

Nevada:

        (1)   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
              Las Vegas for an additional eight-year term.

        (2)   Converted the part-time magistrate position at
              Las Vegas to a full-time position.

        (3)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              Las Vegas in the interim for an additional four­
              year term, increased the salary from $25,859 to
              $34,200 per annum, and discontinued the position
              upon the appointment of the second full-time
              magistrate at Las Vegas.

Oregon:

        (1)   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
              Portland which is due to expire on January 13,
              1987, for an additional eight-year term.

        (2)   Continued the full-time magistrate position at
              Eugene for an additional eight-year term.

        (3)   Continued the part-time magistrate position at
              Pendleton for an additional four-year term at the
              currently authorized salary of $3,022 per annum.

        (4)   Discontinued the part-time magistrate position
              at Coquille effective September 30, 1986.

                       TENTH CIRCUIT

Utah:

        (1)   Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
              Salt Lake City and Monticello (or Moab) for




                             84
               additional four-year terms at the currently
               authorized salaries of $34,200 and $2,015 per
               annum, respectively.

       (2) 
   Continued the part-time magistrate positions at
               Cedar City and Vernal (or Roosevelt) for
               additional four-year terms, and increased the
               salaries from $2,015 to $3,022 per annum for
               each position.

                     ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
Alabama (N):

       (1)     Continued the full-time magistrate position at
               Birmingham which is due to expire in February,
               1987, for an additional eight-year term.
       (2)     Continued the part-time magistrate position at
               Huntsville (or Decatur) for an additional four­
               year term, and increased the salary from $5,037
               to $11,195 per annum.

Georgia (N):

       (1)     Continued the part-time magistrate position at
               Rome for an additional four-year term at the
               currently authorized salary of $34,200 per
               annum.
       (2)     Continued the part-time magistrate position at
               Gainesville for an additional four-year term at
               the currently authorized salary of $9,179 per
               annum.
Georgia (S):

       (1)     Continued the part-time magistrate position at
               Brunswick (or Waycross) for an additional four­
               year term at the currently authorized salary of
               $20,039 per annum.




                              85
      (2) 	   Changed the official location of the part-time
              magistrate position at Dublin (or Swainsboro) to
              Dublin (or Statesboro).

COMMrM'EE TO IMPLEMENT THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT

      Judge Thomas J. MacBride, Chairman of the Committee
to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, presented the report of
the Committee.

              APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

       Judge MacBride submitted to the Conference a report
on appointments and payments under the Criminal Justice Act
for the first half of the fiscal year 1986. The report indicated
that $70,074,000 originally was appropriated for the fiscal year
1986 for implementation of the CJA.            Of this amount,
$2,657,000 was sequestered in accordance with "Gramm­
Rudman-Hollings", leaving a balance of $67,417,000 available
for the implementation of the CJA during the fiscal year
1986. The amount available is expected to be sufficient to
meet current projected obligations, taking into account savings
anticipated as the result of cost-saving initiatives approved by
the Judicial Conference in March, 1986.
       During the first half of the fiscal year 1986,
approximately 26,000 persons were represented under the
Criminal Justice Act, compared to approximately 24,000 in the
first half of the fiscal year 1985, an increase of 8.3 percent.
Of these 26,000 persons represented, 14,823, or 57 percent,
were represented by federal public and community defender
organizations. This represents a 7.2 percent increase over the
13,832 appointments received by federal defenders during the
same period in the fiscal year 1985.

   BUDGET REQUESTS - FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS

       The Criminal Justice Act, as amended, requires that a
budget for each federal public defender organization
established pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3006A(h)(2)(A), be approved
by the Judicial Conference in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 605.
The Committee reviewed 12 requests for supplemental funding
for the fiscal year 1987 and reviewed requests from the 34
federal public defender organizations for funding for the fiscal


                              86
year 1988. No funding has been sought for the Federal Public
Defender Organization for the Southern District of Georgia,
which terminated operations on May 31, 1986.

      The Conference approved supplem ental budget requests
for the fiscal year 1987 for federal public defender
organizations as follows:


      California (N) ••.••••••••••••••••                        $   432,820
      California (C) ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
        29,491
      Florida (M) ...••.•.•....•...•.••                              61,207
      Florida (8) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
       237,570
      Kansas ••.••.••••••••••••••••••                                17,175
      Louisiana (E) •••••••.•.•.•••••••                              44,085
      Nevada ••..•.••.•••.•••.•...•. 
                               56,339
      New Mexico .......•...•...•.••. 
                             103,770
      Oklahoma (W, N, & E) •••.•••.•.•••                             49,356
      Oregon .•.•.•.•..•.•..• ~ •••..•                                8,259
      Texas (8) .•.••••••.•••••••..••.                               57,090
      Virgin Islands •••••••••••••••••••                             81,528

               TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 $ 1,178,690

        The Conference also approved budget requests for the
fiscal year 1988 for the federal public defender organizations
as follows:

      Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 $ 1,023,653
      Cali f ornia (N). • • • • • • • • • ••.••••••             1,572,549
      California (E) •••••••••••••••••••                          976,529
      California (C) ••••••••••.••••••••                        2,026,970
      Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
      521,465
      Connecticut ••.••.•••.•••.••••..                            469,153
      Florida (N) .    III   •••••••••••••••••••                  353,944
      Florida (M) •••••••••••••••••••••                           844,737
      Florida (S) . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 2,615,591
      Hawaii ....................... . 
                          705,321
      Illinois (C & S)/Missouri (E) •••••••••                     596,922
      Kansas ••••••••••.•.•••••••••••                             439,314
      Louisiana (E) •...•.•.•••.•...•.•                           541,692
      Maryland •••••••..•••••..•...•.                             930,547
      Massachusetts ••••••••••••••••••                            398,629
      Minnesota ....•.•..•••••..••.•.                             348,184


                                    87
      Missouri (W) . . . . • • . • . . . . • . . . . . . .        615,531
      Nevada . • . . • . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . •        660,835
      New Jersey . . • • . • • . . . . . . . . • . . . .          888,129
      New Mexico .•.•.••.•.••....•...                             488,871
      North Carolina (E) •••••••••.•••••                          435,624
      Ohio (N) ..•••.•••••.••.•...•..•                            416,713
      Oklahoma (W, N, &. E) •••••••••••••                         499,744
      Oregon .••.••.••••••......••••                              654,817
      Pennsylvania (M &. W) •••••••••••••                         805,984
      Puerto Rico .•.••.•••..•.•••••.•                            515,755
      Sou th Carolina • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••••            372,344
      Tennessee (M) ••••••••••••••••••                            436,290
      Tennessee (W) ••••••••••••••••••                            249,998
      Texas (S) •••••••.•..•.•.•..••••                            964,983
      Texas (W) .•..•.••••.•••••••••.•                            946,719
      Virgin Islands • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •        616,857
      Washington (W)I Alaska ••••••••••••                         873,449
      West Virginia (S) •••••••••••••••••                         226,093

               TOTAL . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • • • .     $25,033,936 


       The Committee will entertain requests for supplemental
funding if workload increases or other factors warrant
reconsideration of funding needs.
                 GRANT REQUESTS ­
         COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS 


       The Criminal Justice Act authorizes community
defender organizations to submit applications to the Judicial
Conference for periodic sustaining grants.        18 U.S.C.
3006A(h)(2)(B).    The Conference approved supplemental
sustaining grants for the fiscal year 1987 for the following
community defender organizations:

      Federal Defenders of San Diego,
            Inc., California (S) ••••••••••                   $    27,819

      Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
            Georgia (N) •••••.•••••••••                            12,775

      Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
            Illinois (N) ••••••••••••••••                         129,062



                                    88
      The Legal Aid Society of New York,
            Federal Defender Services Unit,
            New York (E & S) • • • • . • • • • • •            101,050

              TOTAL •..••.••••••••.•••                     $ 270,706
        The Conference also approved sustaining grants for the
fiscal year 1988 for the six community defender organizations
as follows:

      Federal Defenders of San Diego,
            Inc., California (S) ••••.••. .•               $ 1,560,581

      Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
            Georgia (N) •••••••••••••••                       558,862

      Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
            Illinois (N) • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • •      984,337

      Legal Aid & Defender Assn. of
            Detroit, Federal Defender
            Division, Michigan (E) • • • . • • • •            865,192

      The Legal Aid Society of New York,
            Federal Defender Services Unit,
            New York (E & S) • • • • • • • . • • •          2,518,300

      Defender Assn. of Philadelphia,
            Federal Court Division,
            Pennsylvania (E) • • • . • • • . . . . •          781,343

              TOTAL. • . • • • • . . • . • . • • . ..      $ 7,268,615

       The Committee will consider requests for supplemental
sustaining grant funds if workload increases or other factors
warrant reconsideration of the approved sustaining grants.

                            GUIDELINES

      The Conference approved the following amendments to
the Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice
Act:



                                  89
      1. 	     Amendments to paragraph 3.11 and the
               accompanying chart,      relating to agency
               responsibility for payment of psychiatric
               examinations and testimony.

      2. 	     The addition of new paragraphs 2.01 F (5) and
               2.22 B (3)(vi), relating to the appointment and
               compensation of counsel in ancillary matters.

      3. 	     Amendments to paragraphs 2.01 F (2) and 2.22 B
               (3)(iii), relating to the appointment and
               compensation of counsel for witnesses.

            APPORTIONMENT OF TRANSCRIPT COSTS

       The Conference modified its March 1980 resolution on
apportionment of transcript costs (Conf. Rpt., p. 19) to clarify
that the policy against routine apportionment of transcript
rates applies only to accelerated transcript services. The
Committee is studying whether the resolution should be further
amended affirmatively to encourage the apportionment of
ordinary transcript costs.

              COMMITTBB ON THB OPBRATION OF 

                     THB JURY SYSTBM 


      Judge T. Emmet C1arie, Chairman of the Committee on
the Operation of the Jury System, presented the report of the
Committee.

             REDUCTION IN JURY EXPENDITURES

       In March, 1986 (Conf. Rpt., p. 17), the Conference
requested that the Jury Committee consider ways to reduce
jury expenditures.

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee and after
careful consideration, the Conference resolved that:

       •	      The Congress should ensure that appropriated
               funds are always available to fulfill the
               constitutionally-created right to a jury trial.




                              90
       •	     Any attempt in the future to impose reductions
              in jurors' payor allowances (e.g., parking and
              mileage reimbursements) will be strongly
              opposed.

       •	     District courts should enact local rules or
              standing orders authorizing the imposition of
              sanctions against litigants who fail to provide
              timely notice of settlement.

        The Conference also agreed not to seek legislation to
impose a fee for filing a jury demand under Rule 38 of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and not to bill the
Department of Justice for the cost of space used by grand
juries.

                  TERMSOFJURYSER~CE


        District courts pursue a wid~ range of practices in
establishing their terms of petit jury service, ranging from
terms of one month or less in some courts, to as long as one to
two years in others. The Conference voted to recommend that
all district courts adopt a term of petit jury service of no more
than two months, with shorter terms if local circumstances
permit.

  REVISIONS TO PETIT AND GRAND JUROR HANDBOOKS

       Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved revisions to the handbooks for petit and
grand jurors.

            COMMITTBB ON PACIFIC TBRRITORmS

       The Committee on Pacific Territories filed a report
indicating that the Committee had met with representatives of
American Samoa and is considering whether to recommend
that certain decisions of the territory's courts be reviewable in
Article III courts.




                              91 

        COMMITTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL 

          CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS 


       The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and
Disability Orders filed a report indicating that, since its last
report, no petitions for review of judicial council orders had
been submitted to the Committee.

     JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ACT RULES

       On June 30, 1986, the Judicial Conference for the first
time invoked the mechanism of 28 U.S.C. 372{c)(8) and
certified to the House of Representatives that the
impeachment of a judge, Judge Harry E. Claiborne of Nevada,
may be warranted. This proceeding led to the suggestion that
the Conference should consider prescribing rules respecting
notice to judicial officials charged with misconduct or
disability, as it is authorized to do by 28 U.S.C. 372(c)(11). No
rules have yet been prescribed because of the paucity of
experience to date with such proceedings.

       The Committee is considering anew whether there is a
need for Conference rules and, if appropriate, will recommend
suitable rules for Conference consideration in March, 1987.

            COMMITTEE ON THE BICENTENNIAL 

                OF THE CONSTITUTION 


       Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the
Committee on the Bicentennial of the Constitution, presented
the report of the Committee.
       Judge Markey reported that the Committee is
encouraging the formation of circuit and district committees;
will judge the entries in a law school essay contest conducted
by the National Commission; and will assist in distributing
copies of "Equal Justice Under Law" to schools.

   AD HOC COMMITTEE ON AMERICAN INNS OF COURT

       Chief Judge Howard T. Markey, Chairman of the Ad
Hoc Committee on American Inns of Court, presented the
report of the Committee.



                              92
       The Committee was formed by the Executive
Committee of the Judicial Conference on October 17, 1983, to
plan, monitor, and facilitate the American Inns of Court
program. An American Inns of Court Foundation has been
created and, to date, 19 Inns have been formed and 30
applications for charters of additional Inns are pending. With
the Inns of Court program successfully established, the
Conference discharged the Committee, effective November 5,
1986.

    AD HOC COMMlTI'EE ON SENTENCING GWDELINES

      Judge John D. Butzner, Jr., Chairman of the Ad Hoc
Committee on Sentencing Guidelines, presented the report of
the Committee.

       The Ad Hoc Committee was created in May, 1986, to
enable the Conference to react in timely fashion to the
guidelines which will be adopted by the United States
Sentencing Commission. Since the guidelines will require
district and appellate judges to revise drastically current
sentencing concepts and procedures, they are obviously of
great concern to the judiciary.

       Although the details of the new procedures are still
under consideration by the Commission, there is no doubt that
they will significantly increase the work of probation officers,
district judges, and circuit judges. The Conference agreed that
it would be appropriate and useful to alert Congress to that
fact and to request that Congress provide the additional
judicial branch resources, in personnel and funding, necessary
to implement the guidelines properly.

       To facilitate exchange of ideas on the guidelines, the
Sentencing Commission has scheduled a series of regional
hearings. The Conference authorized the chief judge of each
circuit to designate a circuit judge and a district judge to
participate in the nearest hearing at government expense.

      Section 235 of the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of
1984 (Public Law 98-473) provides that the guidelines shall not
take effect until the expiration of six months after the
Sentencing Commission submits them to the Congress.



                              93
Congress may accept, modify, or recommit the guidelines to
the Commission for revision, or the guidelines may become law
if Congress takes no action during the six-month period. The
ultimate formulation of the guidelines will therefore not be
known until after the Congress acts on the Commission's
proposals or until the expiration of the six-month period.

       In order to afford the judiciary and the bar the
opportunity to prepare for the proper implementation of the
guidelines, the Conference agreed to recommend that Congress
extend the effective date of the guidelines until six months
after they become law.

     PROCEEDINGS UNDBR JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND 

                      DISABILITY ACT 


      The Conference reviewed a report of the Judicial
Council of the Eleventh Circuit concerning Judge Alcee L.
Hastings and invited Judge Hastings to submit such written
response to the report as he may wish.

                       RP.SOLUTION

       Noting the retirement of Chief Justice Warren E.
Burger, the Conference adopted the following resolution:

                    RESOLUTION

                            of the

     JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

            WHEREAS, the Honorable Warren E. Burger,
     following a distinguished career as practicing lawyer,
     teacher of law, Assistant Attorney General of the
     United States, and judge of the Court of Appeals for
     the District of Columbia, entered on duty as The Chief
     Justice of the United States on June 12, 1969; and

           WHEREAS, the Honorable Warren E. Burger
     announced his intention to retire from his great office
     to devote his time and many talents to his role as
     Chairman of The National Commission on the
     Bicentennial of the Constitution; and


                             94
       WHEREAS, the Honorable Warren E. Burger as
The Chief Justice of the United States has for
seventeen years diligently and tirelessly, above and
beyond the call of duty, devoted virtually every waking
hour to his judicial duties and to his efforts to improve
the administration of Justice in the United States; and

       WHEREAS, during his time as Head of the Third
Branch of government, that Branch experienced the
greatest growth in size and burden in its history, with
its personnel more than doubled and the caseloads in
its courts almost trebled; and

       WHEREAS, his unprecedented and unflagging
efforts to improve the legal system have left an
unmatched legacy of efficient administration in the
federal judiciary despite the constant growth in
demand placed on the judicial system; and

       WHEREAS, by virtue of the power of his spoken
and written word, and the dignified use of his Office,
he has played a major and unceasing role in helping to
maintain and enhance the glory of the role and rule of
law in a free society; and

       WHEREAS, his ability to envision future needs,
and to conceive of innovative ways to meet them, have
stimulated the creation of The National Center for
State Courts, the Institute for Court Management, the
State-Federal Judicial Councils, the Supreme Court
Historical Society, The National Center for Innovation
in Corrections, the National Academy for Corrections,
the Annual Conference of Representatives of the
Three Branches, and the American Inns of Court; and

       WHEREAS, throughout his occupation of         the
Office of the Chief Justice of the United States,    the
Honorable Warren E. Burger has preserved intact      the
dignity, honor, and the stature of that Office       for
transmission to his successor; and

       WHEREAS, he has prepared and presided over
thirty-four meetings of this Conference with
efficiency and fairness to all; and


                         95
            WHEREAS, as a result of his integrity, wisdom
     and perseverance, many of his goals and ideals have
     been realized to the lasting benefit of the American
     people;

            NOW, THEREFORE, the members of the
     Judicial Conference of the United States, at its
     meeting duly convened in the city of Washington,
     District of Columbia, on the 18th and 19th days of
     September, 1986, do hereby

                         RESOLVE

     to record their esteem, respect, and affection for the
     Honorable Warren E. Burger and their appreciation of
     his contribution to the administration of Justice and to
     the Nation, and further

                         RESOLVE

     to express their warmest and heartfelt best wishes to
     Chief Justice Warren E. Burger for continued
     achievement and dedicated service to the Nation in a
     long and fruitful retirement career, and further

                         RESOLVE

     that this Resolution be recorded in the Proceedings of
     this Conference, and copies be forwarded to the
     President of the United States, the Vice President of
     the United States, the President Pro Tern of the
     Senate, and the Speaker of the House of
     Representatives.

                PRETERMISSION OF TERMS
               OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS

       Pursuant to 28U.S.C. 48, the Conference approved the
pretermission of terms of the following United States Courts
of Appeals during the calendar year 1987: the Court of Appeals
for the Fourth Circuit at Asheville, North Carolina; the Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit at Kansas City, Missouri and




                             96
Omaha, Nebraska; the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
at Los Angeles, California; and the Court of Appeals for the
Tenth Circuit at Wichita, Kansas and Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma.

            RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

       The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for
legislative or administrative action.




October 21, 1986 	                     Secretary to the
                                       Judicial Conference
                                       of the United States




                            97 

                                                 INDEX 


                                                                                                       Page

Additional Judgeships. . • • • • • . • . • . • • • • • • • • • • . . . • . • • • • • . • •              53
Administrative Office, U. S. Courts:
   Cost Reduction Measures.... . •. •••.••• .• • .. • •. ••••• ••                                       65
   Freedom of Information Act. . • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                        59
   JUdicial Business of the Courts. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • •                       51
   Miscellaneous Budget Resolution .•.•.•.•.••..••••• • • • •                                           66
   Report of the Director. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • . • . • . • • • • .                  51
Appointments and Payments, Criminal .Justice Act. • . • • • • • • •                                     86 

Appropriations (see Budget) 

Arbitra tion: 

     Appeals. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    59 

     International .......................................                                              60 

Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
   Control Act of 1985 (see "Gramm-Rudman-Hollings")
Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal Judgeship
     Act of 1984 ........................................ 59,67 

Bankruptcy Rules ........................................                                               67 

Bankruptcy System:
   Committee on; Report of. . • • • • • • . • . • • • . . • • . • . • • • • • • • •                     69
   Official Duty Stations and Places of
      Holding Court for Bankruptcy Judges. • . • • • • •• • • . • • • • •                               69
Bicentennial of the Constitution:
   Committee on; Report of. • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                    92
Budget:
   Appropriations for FY 1988 . . • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • •                     65
   Committee on; Report of.............................                                                 63
   Gramm-Rudman-Hollings; Cost Reduction Measures •.•••                                                 64
   Miscellaneous Budget Resolution .•••.•••••••••.•••••••                                               66
   Supplemental Appropriations for FY 1987...... • • • • • • • • •                                      63
Budget Requests; Federal Public Defenders. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                86
Buildings design, leasing, construction, maintenance •••••.••                                           66
Burger, Chief Justice Warren E.; Resolution
     on the Retirement of ....•.•.•.•...•..••..•. . . • . • . • • •                                    94
Cases Cited:
     Erie v. Tompkins. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            62
Circuit Council (see Judicial Council)
Civil Liability ..........................................                                             62
Civil Rules . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    68
Claiborne, Judge Harry E. • • • • • • • • . • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                92
Clerks:
   Divisional offices reevaluation. • • • • • • • • . • • • . • • . • • • • • • •                       64
   Staffing restrictions. • • • • • • • • . • • • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • •               64


                                               99
Codes of Conduct:
   Advisory Committee on; Report of .....••.........••.. 66
   Code for United States Judges. • . . . • • . • • . • • • . • • . • • . • •. 66
Community Defender Organizations; Grant Requests. • • . . . • • 88
Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 ••.•.••••.•••••. 69,93
Conduct and Disability Act:
   Court Security. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 58
     Proceedings under. . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • • .           94
   Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   92
Cost Reduction Measures:
   Gramm-Rudman-Hollings. . • • • . . • • • • • • • • • . . . • . • • . • • . • •                     64
   Jury Expenditures; Reduction in . . • • • • • • • • • • • . . . • • • • . . •                      90
Cost-of-Living Adjustment to Judicial Salaries. • • • • • • . . . • • •                               53
Court Administration:
   Additional Judgeships. . • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . •• . . • .                53
     Arhi tra tion Appeals .................................                                          59 

     Committee on; Report of.. .•. .•• . ••.••••••. ••••• . • . ••                                    53
     Court Reporters; Additional. • • • • • • . • • • • • • . • • . • • . • • . • •                   58
     Court Reporters Transcript Rates •• • . • • • • . • • . • • . . • . • • .                        61
     Court Security ................. ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       58
     Courts Design Guide. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             59
     Equal Employment Opportunity •••.••••••.•••.•••.••••                                             57
     Freedom of Information Act... •• .• •••••••. • . ••• •• •• • •                                   59
     International Arbitration Act ••••••••••••.••••. • • • • • • •                                   60
     Judicial Impact Statements. • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • . . . . • . . . • •                  61
     Law Clerks and the Leave Act •.••.. . . . • • . . • • • • • . • • • • •                          57
     Litigation Reform Act. ••••••• •••••. ••.. . • •• •. •••••••                                     62
     Places of Holding Court. . • . • . . • • . • • . • • . • • • . • • • • • • . • • •               59
     Product Liability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         62
     Qualification Standards:
         Librarians. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    56
     Probation and Pretrial Services Officers. • • • • • • • • • • • • .                              56
   Social Security Court. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • . • • . .               60
   Travel Regulations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              59
Court Reporters:
   Addi tional. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     58
   Transcript Rates... .. ........ . ....... ........... .....                                        61
Courts of Appeals:
   Additional Judgeships. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . •               53
   Pretermission of Terms of • • • . • • . . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • •                  96
Criminal Fine Enforcement Act of 1984 .• •••••• •••••••••••                                           69




                                              100 

Criminal Justice Act:
   Appointments and Payments. . • • • • • . • • • • . . • • • • . • . • . • • .                      86
   Budget Requests - Federal Public Defenders •.••••.•••.•                                           86
   Committee on; Report of. • •• ••• • . . •• • ••• •••. • . •• •• ••.                               86
   Grant Requests - Community Defender Organizations.. •.                                            88
     Guidelines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   89
    Transcript Costs; Apportionment of. • • . . • • • • . • . . . • • • • . •                        90
Criminal Rules. . . . .... ... .. .. .. ... . . . . ... . .. . . . . .. .....                        68
Design Guide, U. S. Courts ..............................                                            59
District Courts:
   Addi tional Judgeships. . • • . • • • • • . . . . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •             54
   Jurors Handbook; Revision of • • • • • • • . . • • • • • . . • • • . • • . • •                    91
   Jury Expenses; Reduction of • • • . • • • • • . . • • • • • . • • . • • • • • •                   90
Diversity Jurisdiction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          56
Drug Aftercare Program ••.•••••••••••.•••••...•••.••.••                                              69
Ethics (see Judicial Ethics)
Equal Employment Opportunity ••.•..•••••••••••••.••.••.                                              57
Executive Committee Actions:
   Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges .•..•••••.•••                                          59
Federal Public Defenders:
    Budget Requests •••• . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . • . . • • . . • . . . . • . . • .             86
Financial Disclosure (see Judicial Ethics)
Firearms Training; Funding for. • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • . • • . • • .                  65
Freedom of Information Act. • • • • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .                  59
Gender-N eutralizing:
    Code of Conduct. • . . • . . • . . . . • . • . . • • . • . • . . • • . • . • • . • • .           67
    Rules Amendments. • . • . • . . . . . • • . . . • . . • . . . . • . • • . . • . • •              68
Gramm-Rudman-Hollings:
   Cost Reduction Measures. . • • • • • . • . • . • . • • • • • • • • . • • . • • .                  64
   Jury Expenditures; Reduction in. • . . • . . • . . . . . • . • • • • • . • •                      90
    Transcript Rates. • • • . . . . . . . • . • . . • . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . • • •          61
Grand Juror Handbook; Revision of • . • • • • • . . . • . • . . • . • • • . • .                      91
Grant Requests - Community Defender Organizations. • • • . • •                                       88
Guidelines; Criminal Justice Act •••.••..•.••.•.••..•..••.                                           89
Hastings; Judge Alcee L. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             94
Inns of Court: Ad Hoc Committee on; Report of . • • • • . . • • • . .                                92
Intercircuit Assignments: Committee on; Report of •••.••.•                                           67
Judges:
    Bankruptcy:
      Space Allocations for • • • • . . • . • • . • • • . • • . • • • • • . • • . • • •              59
      Official Duty Stations and Places of
         Holding Court. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          69
     Code of Conduct. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          66
     First-Class Travel ........................ '. . . . . . . . . . .                              65




                                              101
Judges (Cont'd):
   Travel:
          Regulations for .............................................................                                                         59 

     Restricting first-class. . • • • • . • • • • • • . • • • • • • . . • • • • • • . •                                                         65
Judicial Branch:
   Committee on; Report of.. . .•• • •• . ••• •. •. . • . •. •.• • . ••                                                                         52
   Cost-of-Living Adjustment of Judicial Salaries. • • . • • . • • .                                                                            53
   Judicial Survivors Annuities •.••••.••.•••••••••••••.••                                                                                      52
Judicial Business of the Courts. • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • • • • . • • . . • •                                                            51
Judicial Conference of the U.S.:
     Call of.. .. .. . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . .. .. . . . .. . . .. .. .. . .. . . .. . . .. ..                          47
     Release of Action.. . . .. .. . .. . .. . . .. .. . . .. .. . . .. .. . .. . .. . . .. .. . . .. .. . .                                    97
Judicial         Councils; Cost Reduction Measures. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .                                                               65
Judicial         Ethics: Committee on; Report of . • • . • • • . • • . • . • . • •                                                              66
Judicial         Improvements Act of 1985 ••••.••••.•..•••.••••••                                                                               52
Judicial         Panel on Multidistrict Litigation;
      Report of ...... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..     52
Judicial Survivors Annuities •.•••••••••••••.•.•.•.••.•••.                                                                                      52
Judiciary Salary Plan ...................... . .. .. .. . .. .. . . .. .. . .. .. . . . .. .. .. . .. .. .                                      56 

Jurisdiction; Diversity of Citizenship •••.••••••••••.•••.••                                                                                    56
Jurors; Revision to Handbook for District Court. . • • • • . • • • . •                                                                          91
Jury System:
    Committee on; Report of. • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • . • . •                                                            90
    Reduction in Jury Expenditures •.•••••••••••.••••••.••                                                                                      90
    Revisions to Petit and Grand Juror Handbooks. • • • • • • • • • •                                                                           91
     Terms of Jury Service ..............................................................                                                       91 

Justices; Travel Regulations for. . • • • . • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • . .                                                             59
Law Clerks and the Leave Act .••• • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • . • . • •                                                                 57
Legislation:
      Arbitration Act.. . .. .. . .. . .. . . . .. . .. . .. . . .. .. . . . .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . .. ..                              59
      International Arbitration Act. .. • • • • • • • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • .                                                             60
      Leave ,Act.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..   57
      Litigation Reform Act. . • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • •                                                        62
      Marshals Service .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. • . • . • • • • . . •                          58
   Product Liability Act. • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • . •                                                         62
   Social Security Court. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •                                                         60
Librarians:
   Cost Reduction Measures. • • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •                                                             65
   Qualification Standards for. • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • . • • . • • • • .                                                             56
Magistrates:
   Changes in Magistrate Positions. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • .                                                                 77
   Committee on; Report of. • • • • • • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • • • • . •                                                             76
   Legal Assistant Position. • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • . . .                                                          77
   Selection Regulations. • • . • • • . . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • .                                                         77




                                                                  102
Marshals Service. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          58
1\1ultidistrict Litigation:
   JUdicial Panel on; Report of .. . . . • • • • . . • . . • . . • • • . . • • . •                     52
Pacific Territories: Committee on; Report of.. .••.• . . •. .••                                        91
Parking. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   59
Places of Holding Court
     Bankruptcy Judges ..................................                                              69
   Southern District of Georgia. . . • • . • . . • . • • • . . . . • • • • • • • •                     59
Pretermission of Terms of the Courts of Appeals .••.• . • . . • •                                      96
Probation and Pretrial Services Officers:
   Firearms Training; Funding for. • • • • . • . . • • • . . • • . • • . • . . •                       65
   Qualification Standards for. • . .• . ••• .• •. •• . . . •• . •• ••• .                              57
Probation System:
   Committee on; Report of.. • • • . •• .• • •••• • •••• • • ••• .•• •                                 69
Product Liability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         62
Qualification Standards:
     Librarians. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     56
   Probation and Pretrial Services Officers. • • • • • . • • • • • • • • •                             56
Release of Conference Action .....•••.••..••..••.••.•.••                                               97
Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders:
   Committee on; Report of.. . • . • • • • • • . . ••• . • • • • .•••• • ..                            92
   Conduct and Disability Act Rules. • . • • . . . • • . . . • . • • • . . • •                         92
Rules:
     Bankruptcy Rules ...................................                                              67
     Civil Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      68
     Conduct and Disability Act. • • . • • • • • • • . . • • . • • • • • • • • • • •                   92
     Criminal Rules. ... .. . . ... . .. . . . .. .. .. .. .... . . . ... . ..                         68
   Gender-Neutralizing Amendments. . • . • • • . . ••• . • . . . • • . .                               68
   Practice and Procedure: Committee on; Report of . • . . • .•                                        67
Salaries:
   Cost-of-Living Adjustment to JUdicial ..•.••...•.•.•.••                                             53
   Salaries and Expenses Appropriations •.••.•••••••.•..••                                             63
Security .......................                          4O .•..•.•• 4O.............                  58
Sentencing:
     Commission... ... . . .. . .... . . . . . .. .. .. ..... . . . . . . . ..                         93
     Guidelines: Ad Hoc Committee on; Report of • . . . • . . . . • .                                  93
Social Security Court. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             60
Tort Liability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      62
Transcript Costs; Apportionment of. • . • . • • • • • . • • . • . . • . . • • •                        90
Transcript Rates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          61
Travel Regulations for Justices and Judges ••.••.••••••••••                                            59




                                               103
