                   REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
               JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES



I                               September 21,1987


            The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on
    September 21, 1987, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United
    States issued under 28 U.S.C. 331. The Chief Justice presided and the
    following members of the Conference were present:      .




    First Circuit:


               Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
               Chief Judge Juan M. Perez-Gimenez, District of
                       Puerto Rico

    Second Circuit:

               Chief Judge Wiffred Feinberg
               Chief Judge John T. Curtin, Western District of
                       New York

    Third Circuit:

               Chief Judge John J. Gibbons
               Chief Judge William J. Nealon, Jr., Middle District of
                       Pennsylvania

    Fourth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
               Judge Frank A. Kaufrnan, District of Maryland

    Fifth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Charles Clark
               Chief Judge L. T. Senter, Jr., Northern District of
                       Mississippi  ,
            Sixth Circuit:

                      Chief Judge Pierce Lively
                      Chief Judge Philip Pratt, Eastern District of
                              Michigan

            Seventh Circuit:

                      Chief Judge William J. Bauer
                      Judge Frank J. McGarr, Northern District of Illinois

            Eighth Circuit:
    1
                      Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
                      Chief Judge John F. Nangle, Eastern District of
        I                     Missouri

        i   Ninth Circuit:



#                               California

            Tenth Circuit:

                      Chief Judge William J. Holloway
                      Chief Judge Sherman G. Finesilver, District of Colorado

            Eleventh Circuit:

                       Chief Judge Paul H. Roney
                       Chief Judge Sam C: Pointer, Jr., Northern District of
                               Alabama

            District of Columbia Circuit:

                       Chief Judge Patricia M. Wald
                       Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District of
                               Columbia
Federal Circuit:

          Chief Judge Howard T. Markey

Court of International Trade:

          Chief Judge Edward D. Re



        Citcuit Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat; Senior Circuit Judges John 0.
Butzner, Jr. and Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr.; District Judges Louis C.
Bechtle, Barbara B. Crabb and Morey L. Sear; Senior District Judge
Elmo B. Hunter; and Circuit Executive James A. Higgins attended all or
some of the sessions of the Conference.

         Congressman Neal Smith, Chairman of the House Appropriations
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, State, the Judiciary and Related
Agencies, and Congressman Hamilton Fish, ranking minority member of
the House Judiciary Committee, attended the Conference briefly and
spoke on matters pending in the Congress of interest to the judiciary. The
Attorney General of the United States, Honorable Edwin Meese Ill,
Solicitor General Charles Fried, and Stanley Morris, Director of the United
States Marshals Service, addressed the Conference on matters of mutual
interest to the Department of Justice and the Conference.

         L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts, attended the sessions of the Conference, as did
James E. Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director; Karen K. Siqgel, Special Assistant
to the Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General Counsel; Robert E.
Feidler, Legislative and publib Affairs Officer; and David A. Sellers, Public
Information Officer. John C. Godbold, Charles W. Nihan, and Russell R.
Wheeler, Director, Deputy Director, and Director of the Special Educa-
tional Services Division, respectively, of the Federal Judicial Center, also
attended the sessions of the Conference. Noel Augustyn, Administrative
Assistant to the Chief Justice, and Richard Schickele, Staff Counsel to the
United States Supreme Court, were also present.

       The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Judge John C.
Godbold, presented a report on the activities of the Center.
                     REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR
                   OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
                   OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS

        The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, L. Ralph Mecham, submitted to the Conference the Annual Report
of the ~irectorfor the year ended June 30, 1987. The conference
authorized the Director to release the Annual Report immediately in
preliminary form and to revise and supplement the final printed edition.

                 JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

         Mr. Mecham reported that during the year ended June 30, 1987,
the number of cases appealed to the 12 regional courts of appeals rose
almost three percent to 35,176 due to increase3 of criminal and private
civil appeals. Dispositions, while increasing by two percent, still did not
reach the level of filings, so pending cases increased by three percent to
26,008 on June 30, 1987. Filings in the United States Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit rose 16 percent to 1,351 due primarily to increases
in Merit Systems Protection Board appeals. Dispositions declined 19
percent, but still outnumbered filings. As a consequence, the pending
caseload fell 24 percent during the year, to 699.
                                                                                   '
        In the United States district courts, the number of civil filings
dropped for the second consecutive year. The six percent decline, which
reflected a level of 238,982 new civil cases, was centered in cases                ,
involving the United States government. The largest decreases were in
social security disability cases and recovery of overpayments of veterans'
benefits and defautted student loans. The number of civil cases disposed
of almost equaled filings this year, resulting in an increase in the pending
caseload of less than one-haw of one percent. On June 30, 1987, there
were 243,159 civil cases pending in the district courts.

        Criminal case filings, on the other hand, continued the increase
begun in 1981 with a four percent increase. Case filings rose to 43,292,
which is an average of 75 new criminal cases for each distrii court
judgeship. Although criminal case terminations increased over seven ,
percent this year, they did not keep pace with filings and the pending i
caseload increased four percent to 25,458 on June 30, 1987.              I
                                                                               I
                                                                               I
                                                                               I
         Bankruptcy petitions filed increased over 17 percent to 561,278.
This is substantially less than last year's 31 percent increase because
nonbusiness filings rose only 18 percent, half of last year's rate. Business
filings increased 16 percent, a slightly higher rate than a year ago.
Terminations increased over 34 percent, but fell short of filings by almost
80,000 petitions. On June 30, 1987, the pending bankruptcy caseload
increased 11 percent over the previous year, to 808,504.

        Mr. Mecham also reported that as of September 21, 1987, there
were 11 vacancies among the 168 judgeship positions authorized for the
United States courts of appeals, 47 vacancies among the 575 authorized
judgeship positions in the United States district courts, and one vacancy
on the United States Court of InternationalTrade.

                        JUDICIAL PANEL ON
                      MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION

          The Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Liigation reported that during
the year ended June 30, 1987, the Panel centralized 900 civil actions
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407. Of that number, 459 were transferred for
coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings with 441 actions origi-
nally filed in the transferee districts. The Panel denied transfer of 50
actions.

        Since its creation in 1968, the Panel hastransferred 15,926 civil
actions for centralized pretrial proceedings in canying out its statutory
responsibilities.

                        EXECUTIVE COMMllTEE

         'The Executive Committee of the Judicial Conference reported
that, since the last formal session of the Conference in March, 1987, the
Executive Committee had addressed the following matters on the Confer-
ence's behalf:

              BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATOR PROGRAM

         The Bankruptcy Judges, United States Tnrstees, and Family
Farmer Bankruptcy Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-554), which provided for
the expansion of the United States trustee program nationwide, excepted
the judicial districts in Alabama and North Carolina from the program for a
period of up to six years. The legislation specified that those districts
would be served by a "person . . . appointed under regulations issued by
the Judicial Conference to administer estates in cases under title 11."
Public Law 99-554, 5 302(d)(3)(1).

        In order to ensure that the bankruptcy administrator program
would be operational on a timely basis, the Executive Committee ap-
proved interim regulations governing the establishment, duties and
functions of the bankruptcy administrators in the six districts covered by
the bankruptcy administrator program; interim regulations governing the
selection and appointment of bankruptcy administrators in those districts;
and transition regulations governing the selection and appointment of
bankruptcy administrators. See also "Bankruptcy Administrator Interim
Regulations", infra p. 81.

        INTERNATIONAL APPELLATE JUDGES CONFERENCE

        The Executive Committee voted to approve in principle the
sponsorship of an International Appellate Judges Conference. Subject to
the availability of adequate financing, the Conference will be held in
Washington, D.C. in 1989 or 1990. See "Ad Hoc Committee on the
International Appellate Judges Conference of 1989/9ON,infra p. 100.

         LIPGRADE OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE POSITIONS

         In order to attract and recruit quality personnel from within the
judiciary and from other areas for key senior positions in the Administrative
Office, the Executive Committee approved a proposal of the Director of
the Administrative Office to elevate six existing positions in the Administra-
tive Office from GS-18 to Level V of the Executive Schedule, and the
Deputy Diredor from Level V to Level IV. Should Congress fail to approve
that proposal, the Executive Committee approved an alternative recom-
mendation for the creation of six additional "supergrade" (GS-16 to GS-18)
positions in the agency.

                       SENTENCING GUIDELINES

        At its March 1987 session (Conf. Rpt., pp. 40-41), the Judicial
Conference directed the Ad Hoc Committee on Sentencing Guidelines to
review the guidelines and policy statements which the Sentencing Com-
mission subsequently filed with the Congress on April 13, 1987 and
amended on May 1, 1987. On July 8, 1987, the Executive Committee
considered the report and recommendations submitted by the Ad Hoc
Committee.
         Noting the mixed reaction of judges to the substance of the
guidelines and the fact that courts may be asked to rule on their con-
stitutionality, the Executive Committee declined to take a position on the
substance of the guidelines, but reaffirmed the Conference's March 1987
endorsement (Conf. Rpt., p. 41) of legislation to make application of the
guidelines turn on the date an offense is committed rather than the date of
conviction.

          The sentencing guidelines become effective on November 1,
1987, unless Congress takes action to modify them, recommit them to the
Commission for revision, or enact legislation delaying their effective date.
In September, 1986 (Conf. Rpt., p. 9 4 , the Judicial Conference recom-
mended that Congress extend the effective date of guidelines implementa-
tion for six months. With the submission of the guidelines on April 13,
1987, the Sentencing Commission requested that Congress delay
implementation for nine months. The Executive Committee voted to
endorse the Commission's suggestion for a nine-month delay, but con-
cluded that an additional three months' delay would be beneficial and
would allow the judiciary to proceed with implementation more effectively.
Amorrg the areas of cuncern identified by the Executive Committee that
must be addressed are: (1) training of probation officers, which will be a
major undertaking; (2) extensive training of district judges in guideline
scoring; (3) field testing to ensure that there is not significant divergence in
guidelines scoring by probation officers and judges; (4) vast increases in
caseloads of the courts of appeals; (5) a way to insure that the courts of
appeals get transcripts in non-Criminal Justice Act cases; and (6) the
ability of the Bureau of Prisons to acquire and equip new facilities to deal
with an increase in prison population.

        The Congress has directed the Sentencing Commission to review
and, where advisable, revise the guidelines. To assist in this endeavor,
the Judicial Conference is required to provide, at least annually, a written
report containing comments on the operation of the guidelines and
suggesting needed changes. 28 U.S.C. 994(0). The Executive Commit-
tee determined that the appropriate committee of the Conference should
monitor the operation and effect of the guidelines, prepare the reports
required of the Judicial Conference by section 994(0), and recommend
requests to Congress for the resources necessary to implement the
guidelines.

       The Conference in plenary session reaffirmed the Executive
Committee's July 8, 1987, recommendations on sentencing guidelines.
                            COLA TAX EQUITY

          Employees of the executive branch in Alaska, Hawaii and the
territories of the United States have long received cost-of-living allow-
ances (COLAs) to compensate them for the increased local cost-of-living.
These COLAs are specifically free from federal income taxation under
section 912(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 912(2). Although
the judicial branch has since at least the 1940s paid COLAS to its employ-
ees at these locations, and has treated these COLAS as tax exempt,
section 912(2) does not by its terms apply to the judiciary. In 1984, an
individual in Hawaii formally complained to the Internal Revenue Service
about the judiciary's failure to collect taxes on the COLAS and in April,
1987, the IRS concluded that the COLAs received by judicial branch
employees cannot, as a matter of law, be excluded from gross income
under existing law. Implementationof the ruling was delayed until October
12, 1987.

        The Executive Committee concurred in an Administrative Office
recomrnendation that legislation be sought, as soon as possible, to obtain
COLA tax equity for employees of the judicial branch stationed outside the
continental United States.

                     USE OF OVERNIGHT MAIL FOR
                      PAYCHECK DISTRIBUTION

         In September, 1986 (Conf. Rpt., p. 65). as a "Gramm-Rudrnan-
Hollings" (Public Law 99-177) cost reduction measure, the Judicial
Conference restricted the use of overnight mail to those items for which
delivery within 24 hours is essential. The Executive Committee agreed to
permit the use of overnight mail as needed to make timely distribution of
paychecks to locations most apt to experience delay. The Executive
Cornmittee also noted with approval the Director's efforts to encourage all
employees to avail themselves of the electronic transfer of funds (that is,
direct deposit in the bank), thus reducing the need to issue checks to
employees.

                SPECIAL BUDGET COMMITEE REPORT

        The Executive Committee approved the Budget Committee's
recomrnendation that the last category to be cut in the event of Congres-
sional reductions in the judiciary's request for appropriations for the fiscal
year 1989 should be personnel.
                       COMMllTEE TO STUDY
                     THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE

         In December, 1986, the Chief Justice appointed a nine-member
Committee to study the operation of the Judicial Conference and its
committees. After canvassing the views of judges throughout the country,
the Committee concluded that the Conference and its committee structure
were fundamentally sound, but that structural and procedural revisions
were necessary to enable the Conference (1) to operate more ex-
peditiously by strengthening the authoriiy of the Executive Committee to
deal with internal and external Conference business; (2) to allow the Chief
Justice to delegate some of his Conference duties to another Conference
member; (3) to enable the committee structure to deal with budget and
resource allocation matters more effectively; (4) to improve communica-
tions among the Conference, its committees, the courts, the judges,
supporting personnel, and the Administrative Office; and (5) to ensure
greater knowledge of, and allow greater participation in, the activities of
the Conference and its committees by personnel throughout the judicial
system.

        Among the Committee's specific recommendations approved by
the Judicial Conference were the following:

         (1) CONFERENCE GOVERNANCE AND OPERATIONS: The
Conference's Executive Committee will be strengthened, to provide the
Conference with an entity capable of implementing its policies between
sessions. The newly-constituted Executive Committee will consist of a
chairman and six members (three circuit judges and three district judges),
all appointed by the Chief Justice from the Conference membership. The
chairman will act as temporary chairman of the Conference at the discre-
tion of the Chief Justice, and can call meetings of and preside over the
Executive Committee. The Executive Committee will be the senior
executive arm of the Conference (subject at all times, however, to the
authority of the Chief Justice and the Conference itsetf), and is authorized
and directed to act on behatf of the Conference as to any matter requiring
emergency action; to review the reports and recommendations of Confer-
ence committees and structure a Conference agenda consisting of a
consent and a discussion calendar; to publish procedures for assembling
Conference and committee agendas so that interested persons will know
how to get matters before the Conference and its committees; to review
the jurisdiction of each committee and resolve jurisdictional disputes
among committees; to make recommendations with respect to needs of
the judiciary that should be addressed or planned for; and to establish a
legislative liaison group to monitor the legislative situation and maintain
improved judiciaVlegislative relations.

         The Conference will continue to meet twice a year, and circuit
executives may attend Conference sessions if their respective chief
judges desire them to do so. A list of the membership, their terms of
office, and the jurisdiction of all Conference committees will be distributed
annually to all judicial officers and key supporting personnel. Conference
members, committee chairmen, the Administrative Office, and circuit
executives (insofar as their circuit council-assigned duties require it) will
serve as a two-way communications link between the Conference and its
committees on the one hand, and judges and support personnel on the
other. Members of each committee will be designated as liaison to one or
more circuits; personnel in those circuits can express concerns or criti-
cisms to their circuit liaison judges.

        The Administrative Office will retain primary responsibility for
informing judges and supporting personnel of Conference actions. The
agency is to stay abreast of the work and agendas of all Conference
committees and provide information to affected courts, judges, and, if
requested by the respective circuit councils, circuit executives. When the
Administrative Office recommends to a committee that a request submit-
ted by a judge or court be rejected, the committee chairman should
consider directing that the judge or court be notified in sufficient time to
submit responsive material; similarly, when a committee votes to reject the
request of a judge or court, the chairman should consider notifying the
requestor promptly.

        (2) JUDICIAL CONFERENCE COMMITTEES: The Chief Justice
retains all appointment authority, assisted by an advisory committee on
committee appointments. The Conference's current eighteen-committee
structure is revised. Thirteen committees are continued, five (Court
Administration, Criminal Law, Probation, Jury System, and Sentencing
Guidelines) are dissolved, and seven new committees (Administrative
Office, Federal-State Jurisdiction, Judicial Improvements, Judicial
Resources, Space and Facilities, Court Security, and Criminal Law &
Probation Administration) are created. The new committee structure is set
out below:
CURRENTSTRUCTURE                     PROPOSEDSTRUCTURE
 (committee dissolved)                new committee

                   GENERAL GOVERNANCE, LIAISON'

  1.   Executive                    1.   Executive, ~Aegislative
                                           liaison group
  2.   Judicial Branch              2.   Judicial Branch
                                    3.   Administrative Office
                                    4.   Federal-State Jurisdiction

               DETERMINING, ALLOCATING RESOURCES

  3.   Budget                       5.   Budget
  4.   (Court Administration)       6.   Judicial Improvements
                                    7.   Judicial Resources
  5.   Intercircuit                 8.   Intercircuit Assignments
          Assignments               9.   Space and Facilities
                                   10.   Court Security

                             PROGRAM AREAS

  6. Criminal Justice A d          11.   Defender Services (new name)
  7. (Criminal Law)                12.   Criminal Law & Proba-
  8. (Probation)                           tion Administration
  9. Administration of the         13.   Administration of the
     Bankruptcy System                      Bankruptcy System
 10. Magistrates                   14.   Magistrates
 11. Rules of Practice             15.   Rules of Practice and
     and Procedure                          Procedure
 12. (Jury System)

                          CONDUCT AND ETHICS

 13. Codes of Conduct              16.   Codes of Conduct
 14. Judicial Ethics               17.   Judicial Ethics
 15. Conduct and Dis-              18.   Conduct and Disability
       ability Orders                      Orders

                             OTHER
 16.  Constitutional         19. Constitutional
       Bicentennial                Bicentennial
 17. Pacific Territories     20. Pacific Territories
 18. (Sentencing Guidelines)

'This classification of committees is simply to aid analysis.
Every five years, each committee must r e c o m m d to the Executive
Committee, with a justification for the recommendation, either that the
committee be maintained or that it be abolished.

          All active and senior federal judges will be eligible for membership
on any Conference committee. except that the Executive Committee is
restricted to Judicial Conference members; committees may recommend
to the Chief Justice the addition of bankruptcy judges, magistrates, or
others, as regular committee members. Subject to the pleasure of the
Chief Justice, no judge senring on a Conference committee, or on the
Federal Judicial Center Board or the Muhidistrict Litigation Panel, may at
the same time senre on another committee, except the Executive Commit-
tee or ad hoc committees. Committee function and responsibility should
determine the participation and ratio of circuit and d i s t i i judges, and
others, on a particular committee (subject, in the final analysis, to the
discretion of the Chief Justice) and, as a general proposition, committees
should represent the diversity (i,      sex, race, age, ethnicity, experience,
etc.) of the federal judiciary. Chairmen and committee members will senre
three-year terms (staggered to avoid substantial turnover at one time),
with an opportunity for one additional three-year term. In exceptional
cases, committee chairmen may be appointed for additional terms.

        Administrative Office andlor Federal Judicial Center personnel will
continue to staff the Conference and its committees according to the
wishes of committee chairmen. This arrangement continues the Ad-
ministrative Office's Conference secretariat function; reflects the Center's
statutory mandate to provide staff, research, and planning assistance to
the Conference and its committees; and recognizes that both agencies
provide complementary types of support to the Conference.

               COMMt'TEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION

               SALARIES OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGES AND
                   UNITED STATES MAGISTRATES

        At its March 1983 session (Conf. Rpt., pp. 9-10), the Judicial
Conference voted to seek legislation to authorize the Director of the
Administrative Office to fix the salaries of bankruptcy judges, United
States magistrates, and other supporting judicial officers, subject to the
supervision and direction of the Judicial Conference, at salaries not to
exceed Level II of the Executive Schedule. The salary of district judges is
currently pegged at the Level II amount of $89,500. Observing that the
most recent increases in executive, legislative, and judicial salaries
resulted in increases of less than three percent for bankruptcy judges and
magistrates, the Conference in March. 1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. 31) endorsed
"an immediate resolution of the problem through Congressional enactment
of pay increases" for these judicial officers. The Conference also re-
quested the Committee to review the salary ceiling element in the 1983
proposal.

         S. 696, 100th Congress, would establish a linkage of 92 percent in
the relative salaries of bankruptcy judges and magistrates with the salary
of district judges. On the recommendation of its Court Administration,
Magistrates, and Bankruptcy Committees, the Conference agreed to
modify its March 1983 resolution, which recommended a ceiling of
Executive Level II for bankruptcy judges and magistrates, by substituting a
ceiling of 92 percent of a district court judge's salary.

        The Conference also voted to recommend that 28 U.S.C. 332(f)
be amended to increase the salaries of circuit executives not to exceed
the annual rate of Level IV of the Executive Schedule pay rates, and to
recommend that 28 U.S.C. 603 and 626 be amended to raise to the
Executive Level IV rate the salaries of the Deputy Directors of the Ad-
ministrative Office and the Federal Judicial Center. See also "Upgrade of
Administrative Office Positions", supra p. 54.

         RETIREMENT.ANDRECALL OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS

        At its March 1987 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 1I), the Judicial Confer-
ence reaffirmed support, with minor modifications, for a 1982 Conference
proposal (March 1982 Session, Conf, Rpt., pp. 17-18) to establish a
retirement system for fixed-ten judicial officers. Referred to as the
"14-yeaf retirement plan because it would provide these officers with a
full annuity equal to the salary of office after 14 years of service, the
proposal has been introduced by Congressman Kastenmeier as H.R.
2586, 100th Congress.

         After being advised of an unintended side-effect contained in the
14-year retirement bill (whereby a judicial officer could not only receive the
full 14-year retirement benefit but also a portion of the retirement benefit
under the new Federal Employees' Retirement System (FERS) based
upon the same years of sertrice), the Conference directed the Administra-
tive Office to work with the Congress in fashioning the most appropriate
method of eliminating this partial double benefit.
                  QUALIFICAI-ION STANDARDS FOR
                PROBATION AND PRETRIAL Sl%VICES
                    OFFICERS AND ASSISTANTS

         The Conference approved revised position descriptions and
qualification requirements for probation and pretrial services personnel
under FERS, incorporating standards approved in March, 1987 (Conf.
Rpt., pp. 26-27).

                         LAW CLERK SALARIES

        At its March 1987 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 8), the Judicial Confer-
ence noted that, in some areas of the country, top law school graduates
are being offered salaries far beyond those of the federal government. In
order to reduce this disparity and subject to the availability of funds, the
Conference voted to remove the present JSP-11 and JSP-12 salaries for
law clerks and legal assistants from the graded Judiciary Salary Plan
schedule, and to pay new appointees to these positions $33,000 and
$36,500, respectively (subject automatically to any future comparability
increases).

        It was the view of the Committee that the March 1987 action,
when implemented, would adversely affect other court-employed attor-
neys. As approved, it proposed no change in the salaries of JSP-9 law
clerks (currently paid $22,458) or of career law clerks, who may be
promoted to JSP-13 (currently $38,727) only after four years of experience
as law clerk to a federal judge, including three at the JSP-12 level
(September 1985 Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 48). Nor does the resolution
cover staff attorneys or pro se law clerks.

        The Conference approved the Committee's recommendation to
extend the ungraded salary system to grade JSP-9 law clerks by voting to
remove the present JSP-9 salaries for law clerks to judicial officers from
the graded JSP salary schedule, with the qualification criieria of the
position to remain unchanged. New appointees would be paid the
ungraded maximum rate of $25,400, subject automatically to any future
comparability increases and subject also to the availability of funds. The
Conference also amended its September 1985 resolution on career law
clerks (Conf. Rpt., p. 48) to eliminate the three-year service requirement;
career law clerks may be promoted to grade JSP-13 after one year of
service at the next lower salary level and, upon the recommendation of the
appointing judge, to grade JSP-14 (currently $45,763) after one year of
service in grade JSP-13. Finally, the Conference agreed to extend the
ungraded salary system to staff attorneys and pm se law clerks, whose
qualifiiation criieria are identicalto those of "elbow" law clerks.

          Since implementation of the ungraded system has been ap-
proved subject to the availabilly of funds, the system will be funded in the
fiscal year 1989 only to the extent that these increases are included in the
fiscal year 1989 budget for this purpose.

          The Committee reported that in order to adopt a common frame of
reference and to limit administrative confusion in dealing with the un-
graded salary levels, the Committee also (1) approved a change in the
official title of a magistrate's "legal assistant" to "law clerk", since "legal
assistants" and "law clerks" perform the same duties and operate under
the same salary and qualifications standards; and (2) agreed that, upon
implementation of the ungraded system, the former grade 9, 11, and 12
law clerks shall be referred to as "level I","level II", and "level Ill" law
clerks, respectively.

            AD HOC COMMllTEE ON COURT REPORTERS

         In March, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. lo), the Judicial Conference
adopted findings and conclusions of the Ad Hoc Committee on Court
Reporters, and directed the Ad Hoc Committee "to continue to monitor the
situation and propose appropriate management reforms until discharged
by the Judicial Conference." The Conference approved a report and
proposals submitted by the Ad Hoc Committee which. as amended (1)
change the Judiciary Salary Plan title of "court reporter coordinator" to
"court reporting supervisof; (2) recommend that 28 U.S.C. 636(c)(7) be
amended to give a magistrate the sole power to determine the method by
which the record will be taken; (3) require court reporters to keep their
financial, attendance, and transcript records on standardized forms
developed and provided by the Administrative Office; (4) provide that
circuit councils oversee the implementation of and compliance with court
reporter management plans of the district courts; and (5) require a court
that places some of its reporters on a regular tour of duty to place all
reporters in the same location on a regular tour of duty although courts
may, for good and sufficient reasons when approved by their judicial
councils, exempt any reporters on staff at the time of adoption of this
 policy.
          The Committee reported that it had requested the Federal Judicial
Center, in collaboration with the.Administrative Office, to develop produc-
tivity standards for production of official transcript against which district
courts can measure the transcript preparation competence of their court
reporters.

                           TRANSCRIPT FEES

         In September, 1986 (Conf. Rpt., p. 61), the Judicial Conference
approved the following "temporary" increases in maximum allowable
transcript rates, "provided that these maximum rates will not apply to any
transcripts paid for by the government, to include payments under the
Criminal Justice Act, as long as "Gramm-Rudman-Hollings" (Public Law
99-177) is in effect":

                        Maximum Transcript Rates

                                                Each Add'l
                                First Copy to   Copy to the
                     Original    Each Party     Same Party

Ordinary             $3.00           $ .75          $ .SO
Expedited            $4.00            $ .75         $ .50
Daily                $5.00           $1.OO          $ .75
Hourly               $6.00           $1.OO          $ .75


       The Conference voted to strike Yemporary" from the September,
1986 resolution on court reporters' transcript rates.

          QUALIFICATION STANDARDS FOR SECRETARIES

         Under the Judiciary Salary Plan, in order to attain the position of
secretary to a federal judge, JSP-11, an individual must have served "four
years as a secretary in a federal court, three of which must be at the
JSP-10 level" (see March 1984 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 10-11; September
1985 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 48-49). Observing that these lengthened
and restrictive requirements are deviations from the JSP and from execu-
tive branch practices, the Committee recommended that the JSP be
amended to replace the language quoted above with "one year of legal
secretarial experience at the JSP-10 or equivalent level" in the qualifica-
tion standards for principal secretaries to federal judges. The Conference
approved the amendment.
         The Conference also agreed to increase the salary of the principal
secretary to a chief judge of a circuit to JSP-12, after three years as
secretary to a circuit chief judge and upon a showing of exceptional
circuit-wide responsibilities.

           CLASSIFICATION OF SUPPORTING PERSONNEL

         The Conference approved the reclassification of (1) secretaries to
senior staff attorneys at the JSP-9 level and of other secretaries in the
senior staff attorneys' offices at JSP-7; (2) court recorder operator posi-
tions at the JSP-8 level, subject to the duties assigned; (3) positions in
clerks' offices performing full-range intake duties at the JSP-8 level; and
(4) clerical positions in probation and pretrial services offices from level
JSP-6 to JSP-7.

                 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

         Public Laws 91-616, 92-255, and 93-282 provide for the estab-
lishment of alcohol and drug abuse programs for federal employees. See
also Public Law 79-658, which authorizes heads of agencies to establish
health service programs "to promote and maintain the physical and mental
fitness" of employees. Such Employee Assistance Programs (EAPs)
provide at relatively low costs the services of psychologists or sociologists
and make referrals to appropriate medical, legal, and other personnel who
may not readily be available to employees and supervisors. An EAP
established in the Administrative Office was able to provide assistance to
12 employees during a six-month period, with positive results.

       The Conference voted to endorse the establishment and funding
of Employee Assistance Programs at the local level.

                              AUTOMATION

        The Committee on Court Administration reported on the progress
of the various automation projects for the courts, on off ice automationtdata
communications, on computer-assisted legal research (CALR), and on
automation personnel.

        At its last session (Conf. Rpt., p. 21), the Conference was advised
that the Subcommittee on Judicial Improvements, recognizing that the
Bankruptcy Court Automation Project (BANCAP) will be of inestimable
value to the overburdened bankruptcy courts, had requested the Federal



                                    65
Judicial Center to focus its development resources to ensure that
BANCAP is completed according to the schedule set out in the Five-Year
 Plan for Automation in the United States Courts (1987 Update). In so
doing, the Subcommittee recognized that this could require other
bankruptcy automation efforts, including Judicial Center support for a
 Department of Justice-managed demonstration project (see Public Law
99-554, the Bankruptcy Judges, United States Trustees, and Family
 Farmer Bankruptcy Act of 1986), and any modification of BANCAP to
satisfy U.S. Trustee needs, to be deferred indefinitely. However, on
reconsideration, the Subcornmittee determined that development of an
information system as envisioned by Public Law 99-554 which uses
BANCAP as a base would be more cost-efficient than two separate
development tracks. Accordingly, the Subcornmittee endorsed a more
cooperative approach with the United States Trustees' development
efforts. The Subcommittee also approved a series of Administrative Office
recommendations for accelerated BANCAP implementation, including
establishment of a BANCAP training and support center in the Western
District of Texas; establishment of BANCAP consolidated processing
centers whereby one bankruptcy court with hardware provides BANCAP
sewices to other courts; and increasing the number of BANCAP installa-
tions in the fiscal years 1988 and 1989.

         The Committee also approved the acceleration of installation of
office automation and data communications, voting to request that the
judiciary seek funds for implementation of office automation activities over
a three-year period, rather than a five-year period as previously
contemplated.

       The Subcornmittee on Judicial Improvements reported that it had
approved the expansion of CALR to all one-judge sites and had directed
the Administrative Office to explore the possibility of installing additional
convenience terminals at locations with heavy CALR usage.

        On the recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Confer-
ence assigned permanently the responsibility for oversight of automation
to the new Judicial Improvements Committee.

        CONSOLIDATION OF CENTRAL VIOLATIONS BUREAUS

          Central Violations Bureaus (CVBs) were established to process :
efficiently petty offense and some misdemeanor cases where prosecution ,
is initiated by violation notice. Eight automated CVBs currently handle
notices for 82 district courts, leaving only nine districts outside the
automated system. (The Districts of Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the
Northern Mariana Islands do not have central violations bureaus.)

         In December, 1986, the Subcommittee on Judicial Improvements
recognized that there were significant advantages in processing violation
notices through the automated CVBs and requested that the Federal
Judicial Center study the feasibility of further CVB consolidation. After
careful study, the Judicial Center concluded that consolidation of the
national CVB processing into two service centers could result in savings in
personnel and office space costs, and in a much more standardized
implementation of national CVB procedures. The Center made the
following recommendationswhich were approved by the Conference:

     (1)   The Magistrates Division of the Administrative Office, in
           consultation with representatives from the eight CVB service
           centers and from non-automated districts, should develop
           model procedures to be followed by all magistrates when
           handling petty offense cases initiated by the issuance of a
           violation notice.

     (2) The eight existirlg CVB centers should be consolidated into two
         national service centers, in the District of Colorado and the
         Western District of Texas.

     (3)   The CVB Users' Group should be reinstituted.

     (4)   FEDCAP computers should be installed in the two remaining
           CVB service centers, with support for the automated CVB
           application on Four-Phase computers phased out as soon as
           possible.

     (5) The transfer of districts from an existing service center to one of
         the two remaining centers should be accomplished one service
         center at a time.

     (6)   The personnel allocation for CVB functions for the nine districts
           not participating in the automated CVB program should be
           eliminated.

     (7)   Current staff positions allocated to CVB service centers that
           would be closed should be eliminated through attrition.



                                    67
     (8) The JSP levels assigned to CVB supervisors and staff should
         be re-evaluated by the Personnel Division of the Administrative
         Office in light of the changes in duties and responsibilities that
         would result from consolidation of the CVBs into two sites.

     (9) Training programs for new magistrates should be modified to
         include topics pertaining to the function and responsibility of the
         CVB.

     (10) Data should be collected regarding the cost benefits of pre-
          sorting CVB-generated mail.

     (11) The Financial Management Division of the Administrative Office
          should work with the two automated CVB service centers to
          ensure that fully satisfactory financial controls are implemented.
          Due to the magnitude of the revenues that would be processed,
          annual audits would be in order.

     (12) The Financial Management Division should reevaluate the use
          of lockboxes for the two CVB service centers.

                    UNITED STATES CLAIMS COURT

         The United States Claims Court was created in 1982 as an. Article
I court in the judicial branch. Noting certain constitutional, administrative,
and functional problems with the existing configuration, the Chief Judge of
the Claims Court proposed the reestablishment of the United 'states
Claims Court as an Article I court outside of the judicial branch.

          Without Qnsideration of any constitutional questions which might
be involved, the Conference determined not to object to the creation of an
Article I Claims Court outside of the judicial branch.

                              ARBITRATION

          In March, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. 18), the Judicial Conference
reaffirmed support for its proposed "Court-Annexed Arbitration Act" (March
1986 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 6-7), in lieu of enactment of H.R. 4341, 99th
Congress, an alternative arbitration bill introduced by Congressman
Kastenmeier. This reiterated the Judicial Conference position that, until
substantial experience is obtained under current pilot projects, the
arbitration program should be flexible and experimental in nature.
        Mr. Kastenmeier has introduced in the 100th Congress H.R. 2127,
a more flexible court-ordered arbitration bill. The Judiclal Conference
voted to support enactment of H.R. 2127 with minor amendments which
would "grandfather certain limits and procedures of the current court-
annexed arbitration pilot program in the federal courts and make other
improving adjustments. Among other things, the proposed amendments
would (1) clarify that, in bankruptcy, only adversary proceedings may be
subject to arbitration; (2) raise the dollar amount of money damages
allowable in adidration to $150,000 and require documentation of the
amount of damages; (3) allow the court to extend the time period before
which an arbitration hearing must begin, if circumstances warrant such an
extension; (4) require a bad faith demand for a trial de novo before costs
and attorney fees can be assessed for the trial following arbitration by
consent of the parties; (5) subjed the compensation of arbitrators to limits
set by the Judicial Conference; (6) extend the report date of the Federal
Judicial Center from four to f i e years to enable the Judicial Center to
have additional time to complete its research; and (7) require a written
demand for a trial de novo to be filed with the district court.

                    FEDERAL COURTS STUDY ACT

        S. 951, H.R. 1929, and H.R. 3227, 100th Congress, would
establish a Federal Courts Study Commission, the details of which vary
with each bill. The Judicial Conference previously has endorsed the
creation of a temporary commission to study federal court jurisdiction
(March 1981 Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 20; March 1982 Session, Conf. Rpt.,
p. 20; September 1982 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 71-72).

         The Conference voted to support S. 951 and H.R. 1929, provided
that the legislation is amended to narrow the scope of the Commission's
activities and to include broader reporting requirements. The Conference
also voted to support H.R. 3227, provided that the foregoing concerns are
resolved and also provided that the bill is amended to permit the Chief
Justice rather than the President to make a representative number of
appointments from the judicial branch to the Commission.

                 UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE

        The Conference voted to refer a draft bill to "establish a United
States Marshais Sewice" to the Executive Committee, for further referral
to the appropriate Conference committee for additional study.
                    INCREASES IN FEE SCHEDULES

        At its March 1987 session (Conf. Rpt., pp. 11-17), the Judicial
Conference approved revised fee schedules for the appellate, district, and
bankruptcy courts, and the Claims Court. On the recommendation of the
Committee, the Conference approved the following technical amendments
to the appellate, district, and bankruptcy court fee schedules.

       ltem 3 of the district and appellate schedules, and item 2 of the
bankruptcy schedule, are amended to read:

     For certification or exemplification of any document or paper,
     whether the certification is made directly on the document, or by
     separate instrument, $5.


        ltem 4 of the bankruptcy fee schedule is amended to read:

     For amendments to a debtor's schedules of creditors or lists of
     creditors after notice to creditors, $20 for each amendment, provided
     the bankruptcy judge may, for good cause, waive the charge in any
     case.

                       INTERLOCUTORY APPEALS

        Under the so-called Enelow-Ettelson doctrine (Enelow v. New
York Life Ins. Co., 293 U.S. 379 (1935); Ettelson v. Metropolitan Lie Ins.
Co 317 U.S. 188 (1942)), an order that governs the course of a court's
own proceedings or stays the court's own proceedings is appealable if the
underlying action is one that would have been brought at law before the
merger of law and equity, and the basis of the order is some matter that
could have been raised in a suit in equity before merger. The doctrine has
been universally criticized. In the first place, there is no reason to distin-
guish between actions at law and suits in equity in determining whether a
matter such as a stay of proceedings should be appealable. Furthermore,
many actions involve requests both for legal and for equitable relief, or
otherwise arise in postures that make such an historical analogy
impossible.

        On the recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Confer-
ence voted to recommend that 28 U.S.C. 1292(a)(1) be amended to
disallow appeals from orders governing the court's own proceedings.



                                          70



               rerT       ,   l   l   p    ~   m   -   -   m
                                                               --,--,-~
                                                                      ,--,--   -   --
                                    CORPORATE VENUE

                Venue generally turns on one of two considerations: the place
        where the claim aroee or the residence of the parties. When one or more
        of the parties is a corporation, venue problems arise in determining a
        corporation's "residence".

                  The Committee recommended that 28 U.S.C. 1391(c) be
        amended to provide that a corporation for venue purposes should be
        deemed to reside in any judicial district in which it was subject to personal
        jurisdiction at the time the action was commenced. The Conference
        approved the recommendation.

                                 REMOVAL JURISDICTION

                 At its September 1985 session (Conf. Rpt., pp. 50-51), the Judicial
I       Conference endorsed the Committee's recommendation that 28 U.S.C.
        1441(a) should be amended to eliminate the derivative jurisdiction
        doctrine. Upon further consideration of removal jurisdiction, the Commit-
        tee concluded that further amendments to section 1441 are warranted, as
        are amendments to 28 U.S.C. 1446 and 1447. The suggested amend-
        ments, all of which were approved for transmittal to Congress by the
        Conference, would, inter alia, permit removal by "any" defendant; allow
        the citizenship of fictitious or "Doe" defendants to be disregarded for
        removal purposes; simplify the "pleading" requirements for removal;
        establish a one-year limit on removal based on diversity jurisdiction;
        eliminate the bond requirement on removal procedure; and regulate the
        joinder of additional parties after removal.

                          TORTURE VICTIM PROTECTION ACT

                  S. 824, 100th Congress, the proposed Torture Victim Protection
        Act, would fill perceived gaps in the Alien Tort Claims Act, 28 U.S.C. 1350.
I       The bill would make every person "who, under actual or apparent authority
I
        of any foreign nation, subjects any person to torture or extrajudicial killing
        . . .liable to the party injured or his legal representatives in a civil action."
                  While taking no position on the substantive issues raised by the
        bill, the Judicial Conference recommended that Congress look closely at
        the problems that would be visited on the federal courts if S. 824 were to
        be enacted in its present form. Congress should, for example, examine
        such matters as the absence of provisions dealing with personal jurisdic-



                                              71

    I

    I
          tion or default; the lack of standards to help identify the "legal repre-
          sentatives" who may bring suit or the persons who might properly be
 1    ,   made defendants; the fact that application of any statute of limitations is
          expressly barred, which could compound the difficulty of trying events that
                                                                                            I
 Iil
          happened in foreign countries by the difficulties of stale evidence; and the      I
          failure to provide for collecting any judgments.                                  I
 I'                                                                                         I
                                                                                            I
                     TEMPORARY EMERGENCY COURT OF APPEALS                                   i
II                At its March 1987 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 20), the Judicial Confer-       1
          ence recommended abolition of the Temporary Emergency Court of
          Appeals, on condition that the court be perrnttted to complete its pending
          caseload during a transition period, but did not recommend any forum for
          the transfer of its j u i i i i o n .

                  On the advice of the Committee, the Conference voted to recom-
          mend that, upon abolition of 'TECA, the court's jurisdiction should be
          vested in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.

                         DIVERSITY OF CITIZENSHIPJURISDICTION

                   As recently as March, 1986 (Conf. Rpt., p. 17), the Judicial
          Conference reaffirmed its long-standing request that Congress eliminate
          diversity of citiuenship jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. 1332. Alternatively, the
          Conference has also recommended that in-state plaintiff access to
          diversity jurisdiction be eliminated and that the amount in controversy
          requirement be raised to $25,000 (March 1977 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp.
          8-9).

                   Without departing from recommendationsto adopt more extensive
          restrictions on diversity jurisdiction or to abolish it altogether, the Confer-
          ence agreed to recommend that 28 U.S.C. 1332 be amended to increase
          the amount in controversy required to establish diversity jurisdiction from a
          sum that exceeds $10,000 to a sum that exceeds $50,000. While raising
          the jurisdictional amount in diversity cases would not, in the Conference's
          view, be the preferred approach, it would represent a desirable step in
          decreasing the overwhelming federal judicial caseload.

                               ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES

                 S. 950, 100th Congress, the proposed Administrative Law Judge
          Corps Act, would establish a Judicial Nomination Commission charged
with maklng nominations for the executive branch offices of Chief Ad-
mlnistrative Law Judge and division chlef judges. The nominations would
be made to the President, who would make appointments with the advice
and consent of the Senate. Among those who would appoint members of
the Commission would be the Chief Judges of the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit and the Distrlct Court for the District of
Columbia.

        Since it would be inappropriate to impose on Article Ill judges the
responsibility for this form of participation in the process of selecting
executive branch officials, the Conference concurred in the Committee's
recommendation that in the event of enactment of S. 950, others be
designated to make these appointments to the Judicial Nomination
Commission.

         The bill also provides that federal courts may refer to the Ad-
                                      .
ministrative Law Judge Corps "any . . case where a determination on the
record after an opportunity for a hearing by a judge of the Corps is found
by such court . . . to be desirable and appropriate." The Conference
objected to this provision also, as it could shortcircuit established doc-
trines that regulate the relationship between courts and administrative
agencies.

                 WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION ACT

         One provision of H.R. 25, 100th Congress, the proposed
Whistleblower Protection Act, would amend 5 U.S.C. 7703(b)(1)to provide
that review of final orders or decisions of the Merit Systems Protection
Board, which now lies exclusively in the Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit, be made available either in the Federal Circuit or in the court of
appeals for the judicial circuit within which the petitioner resides.

          No evidence has been presented to the Conference which would
justify departure from the judgment made in 1982 to centralize such cases
in the Federal Circuit. Consequently, the Conference voted to oppose this
legislative change.

                     FAIR HOUSING AMENDMENTS

        H.R. 1158 and S. 558, 100th Congress, seek to effect substantial
changes in the substantive reach of the Fair Housing Act of 1968 (Title Vlll
of the Civil Rights Act of 1968), and also to establish for the first time an
        effective means of administrative enforcement. While substantive
        changes in the Fair Housing Act raise matters of policy for the Congress,
        the enforcement and review provisions appropriately warrant comment by
        the judiciary.

    I
                 Title Vlll currently provides for investigation of complaints of          I

        discrimination by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
    I
    I   for "informal methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion"; actual
        enforcement is left to litigation brought in the district courts by persons
        aggrieved or by the Attomey General. The proposed legislation would
        permit an aggrieved person to file a complaint with the Secretary, to bring        I
    I

    I
        an action in a state or federal court, or to do both at the same time; would
        permit court of appeals review of final orders of administrative law judges
        at the instance of aggrieved parties; and includes three separate provi-
                                                                                       I   I



                                                                                           I
    I   sions for the filing of petitions in the courts of appeals to enforce the
    I   orders of administrative law judges. In certain circumstances, the findings
        of fact and orders of the administrative law judges "shall be conclusive",
        and the clerk of the court of appeals must "forthwith" enter decrees
        enforcing the orders.

                 When similar legislation was considered in March, 1980, the
        Judicial Conference endorsed the Committee's recommendation that an
        aggrieved person who files a complaint with the Secretary be required to
        exhaust administrative proceedings before pursuing judicial remedies
        (Conf. Rpt., pp. 13-14), and it now finds no reason to alter that position.
        The Conference also believed that while prompt petitions for review or
        enforcement on an administrative record should be filed in the courts of
        appeals, enforcement of administrative orders after expiration of the time
        for court of appeals review would better be considered by district courts.
        Finally, the Conference objected strongly to any provision that would
        deprive a court of the power to modify an administrative order in light of
        the needs demonstrated by enforcement proceedings.

I   I
                        THE FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT                               i

                H.R. 925, 100th Congress, would, among other things, provide
        employees with limited amounts of unpaid family or medical leave. The
        proposed Family and Medical Leave Act would establish a Commission on
        Paid Family and Medical Leave, composed of 15 members representing
        the legislative and executive branches and the private sector, to study
        methods of providing workers with such leave.
                                                                                       !
        The substantive issues raised by H.R. 925 are matters of policy
upon which the judiciary defers to the legislative and executive branches.
However, although judicial branch employees are covered by the bill,
there is no judicial branch representation on the Commission on Paid
Family and Medical Leave. The Conference approved the Committee's
recommendation that, in the event of enactment, H.R. 925 should be
amended to provide for judicial branch representatives on the
Commission.

          The Conference also observed that H.R. 925 raises questions as
to the exhaustion of administrative remedies and automatic enforcement
of administrative matters which parallel similar questions raised by the Fair
Housing Amendments Act, discussed immediately above. An aggrieved
person (i.e., a person not restored to a prior or equivalent position of
employment on returning from family or medical leave) would be author-
ized to file a charge with the Secretary of Labor, who could issue a
complaint which would lead to a hearing before an administrative law
judge; thereafter, an aggrieved party could apparently seek review by the
Secretary of Labor or directly in a court of appeals. An aggrieved party
might also elect, either in the alternative or simultaneously, to file a civil
action in a state or federal court. In addition, the Secretary could petition a
district court for enforcement of any order that had not been appealed to a
court of appeals, in which case the Secretary's order "shall not be subject
to revieww.

        Consistent with its position on the Fair Housing Amendments Act,
above, the Conference voted to recommend that if enacted, H.R. 925
should be amended to provide that (1) any aggrieved person who elects to
seek administrative remedies must exhaust those remedies before
seeking judicial relief; and (2) enforcement of unreviewed orders of
administrative law judges be obtained- in the district courts, on such terns
as are found appropriate by the court.



         At its March 1987 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 19), the Judicial Confer-
ence recommended that Congress promptly take steps to narrow sig-
nificantly the scope of 18 U.S.C. 1964(c) (civil suits under the Racketeer
Influenced Cormpt Organizations Act, or "civil RiCO"). Suggesting that
Congressional testimony had questioned the validity of the Conference's
position that significant numbers of cases under that statute have been
shiing from state to federal courts, Congressman John Conyen, Chair-
        man of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, requested
        that the Conference reexamine its position on civil RICO.

                 It was the view of the Committee that the number of civil RlCO
        cases is substantially larger than can be statistically documented given the
                                                                                        I
        judiciary's statistical practices and, moreover, that these cases require a     1
        disproportionately large amount of time to resolve. Accordingly, the
        Committee recommended that the Conference reaffirm its March 1987
        position urging the Congress to narrow significantly the civil RlCO provi-




'
        sions in 18 U.S.C. 1964(c).             The Conference agreed to the
        recommendation.


I                            COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

                          SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
                             FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1988

                 The Conference authorized the Director of the Administrative
        Office to submit to the Congress a request for supplemental appropria-
        tions for the fiscal year 1988 for "pay costs", and program supplementals
I       for "Salaries and Expenses", "Defender Services", "Court Security", and
        "Administrative Office of the United States Courts". The Conference also

1
I
        authoiied the Director to amend the requests because of any new
        legislation, action taken by the Judicial Conference, or any other reason
        the Director considers necessary and appropriate.
I

                   APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1989                              I




I               The Conference approved the budget estimates for the fiscal year
        1989. The estimates, exclusive of the Supreme Court, the United States

I
I
1
        Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the Court of International Trade,
        and the Federal Judicial Center, total $1,661,452,000, an increase of
        $253,408,000, or 18 percent, over the judiciary's request for the fiscal year
        1988. Provision has been made in the budget estimates for an additional
I
        1,071 permanent positions. Approximately 66 percent of the increase is
        for mandatory or uncontrollable costs such as increases for judges'             I
        salaries; annualization of the fiscal year 1988 supplementals and other         4
                                                                                        I
    I
        adjustments in compensation; adjustments for court operations such as
        increases in contract rates and charges for services, supplies, and             !)l
        equipment; and reimbursable space and facilities expenses. The remain-
1
        ing increases are for workload increases, new legislation, and new
        program initiatives necessary to maintain the same level of support and
services required by the rapid and continuing growth in the workload of the
judiciary, or to improve the administration of justice.

        The Director of the Administrative Office was authorized to amend
the budget estimates because of new legislation, action taken by the
Judicial Conference, or for any other reason the Director considers
necessary and appropriate.

             "GRAMM-RUDMAN-HOLLINGS" BUDGET CUTS

         In September, 1986 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 16-17), the Judicial Confer-
ence approved a series of cost-cutting measures in response to Public
Law 99-177, the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985 ("Gramm-Rudman-Hollings"). On the recommendation of the Budget
Committee, the Conference agreed to continue in effect restrictions on (1)
temporary employment of secretaries, law clerks, and clerical personnel,
limiting such employment to emergency situations or extraordinary
circumstances; (2) overlapping appointments of secretaries and law clerks
to judicial officers to be limited to those with only a single secretary or law
clerk or where the cost is offset by a vacancy during the transition period;
and (3) the use of express mail, with exceptions to be made only for those
items for which delivery within 24 hours is essential.

                      BUDGET DECENTRALIZATION

         In January, 1987, a committee of circuit executives presented to
the Budget Committee a "proposal for limited decentralization of most
components of circuit and district court budgets". The Budget Committee
deferred action on the proposal, pending study by committees of the
Judicial Conference whose areas of responsibility might be most directly
affected by the proposal's implementation.

        After being advised that the Court Administration, Magistrates,
Probation, and Bankruptcy Committees had agreed to a scaled-down
version of the original proposal, the Budget Committee recommended,
and the Conference approved, implementation of a five-court, three-year
pilot budget execution decentralization project (Second Circuit Court of
Appeals, and Southern New York, Western Washington, Northern Califor-
nia, and Arizona district courts). Commencing on October 1, 1987, the
project will test the benefits of expanding the role of the courts in manag-
ing local operating budgets.
                                                                                          -


                             JUDICIAL ETHICS COMMIITEE

                 The Judicial Ethics Committee reported that as of August, 1987,
        the Committee had received 2,045 financial disclosure reports for the
        calendar year 1986, including 1,594 reports fmm judicial officers and 451
        reports from judicial employees, and had addressed 626 letters of inquiry
        to reporting individuals.

lli'i                      FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORTS
                                BY COURT REPORTERS

                In September, 1981 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 78-79), the Judicial Confer-
        ence approved a recommendation of the Committee to require the filing of
        financial disclosure reports by official United States court reporters when
        gross receipts from the sale of official transcripts, plus regular salary,
        equaled or exceeded compensation at the grade 16 level of the General
        Schedule. The recommendationwas based upon the conclusion, reached
        by the Committee, that the definition of "judicial employee" in section
        308(10) of the Ethics in Govemrnent Act (Public Law 95-521, Title Ill,
        g 308(10), 28 U.S.C. app. $308(10)) could be read no other way.
 I               The Committee reported that the requirement for filing financial
        disclosure reports had caused considerable misunderstanding among
 IN#
 11
        court reporters and required an unnecessary volume of correspondence
        on behalf of the Committee. Moreover, the Committee could find no
 1
 I
        conflict of interest in reporters' official duties which would'require the need
        for such financial disclosure. Accordingly, the Committee recommended
        that legislation be sought specifically to relieve court reporters from any
        requirement to file financial disclosure reports. The Conference concurred
        in the recommendation.

                  ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
 1
                 The Advisory Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since
        its last report, the Committee had received 20 inquiries and issued 19
        advisory opinions. The Chairman also responded to 26 telephone
        inquiries that did not require reference to the Committee.

1'                CODE OF CONDUCT FOR UNITED STATES JUDGES

               The Conference approved the substitution of "on the merii or
        procedures affecting the meriis of" for "concerning" in Canon 3A(4).
                COMMIITEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

             The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during
    the period February 15, 1987, through August 20, 1987, the Committee
    had recommended 59 intercircuit assignments to be undertaken by 50
    judges. Of this number, 11 were senior circuit judges, 10 were active
    circuit judges, 15 were senior district judges, six were active district
    judges, three were senior judges of the Court of lnternational Trade, and
    five were active judges of the Court of InternationalTrade.

             Of the 59 assignments approved, 29 judges undertook 33 assign-
    ments to the courts of appeals, and 22 judges undertook 26 assignments
h   to the district courts.
1         COMMllTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

             The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that
    on August 1, 1987, in the absence of Congressional action, amendments
    to the Civil, Criminal, and Bankruptcy Rules approved by the Judicial
    Conference at its September 1986 session (Conf. Rpt., pp. 67-68) took
    effect. Amendments to the Federal Rules of Evidence, also approved by
    the Conference in September, 1986, took effect on October 1, 1987,
    failing congressional action.

             The Committee also reported on the progress of the Committee's
    study, authorized by the Conference in September, 1984 (Conf. Rpt., p.
    67), of local court rules. Phase I of the study (consisting of a compilation,
    review, and preliminary analysis of the 5,000 local rubs of the district
    courts and of the statutes, judicial opinions, and lierature relating to local
    rules) has been completed by Dean Daniel R. Coquillette of Boston
    College Law School, Reporter to the Committee. The Committee author-
    ized Dean Coquillette to proceed with the next phase, i.e., developing
    working papers dealing wkh (1) a uniform numbering system for local
    rules; (2) a proposed set of model local rules; (3) identification and
    analysis of rules that should be made the subject of uniform federal rules
    and of rules that conflict with the letter or spirit of statutery law or the
    federal rules; and (4) identification of redundant local nrles that merely
4
    restate existing federal statutes and rules.
           COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                     PROBATIONSYSTEM

     CONTRACTING AUTHORITY FOR PSYCHIATRIC SERVICES

         Although the Director of the Administrative Office may contract
for the treatment of drug or alcohol dependent probationers or parolees
(18 U.S.C. 3672 and 4255), his authority does not extend to the provi-
sion of psychiatric or psychological treatment. The Committee reported
that during the past year, the Probation Service received for supervision,
from the courts or the United States Parole Commission, 600 persons in
need of psychiatric or psychological treatment which the Service was
unable to provide.

        The Conference approved the Committee's recommendation
that. 18 U.S.C. 3672 and 4255 be amended to expand the Director's
contract authority to include treatment services to offenders suffering
from psychiatric disorders.

        MODEL LOCAL RULE FOR GUIDELINE SENTENCING

          The Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 (Tile II of the Comprehen-
sive Crime Control Act of 19.84, Public Law 98-4731, when fully imple-
mented, will work a sweeping reform of substantive and procedural
sentencing law in the federal courts. Under the law, sentencing
guidelines drafted by the United States Sentencing Commission, unless
modified by the Congress or delayed in implementation, become
effective on November 1, 1987. In order to afford the judiciary and the
bar the opportunity to prepare for proper implementation of the
guidelines, the September 1986 Conference (Conf. Rpt., pp. 93-94)
recommended that Congress extend the effective date of the guidelines
until six months after they become law. On July 8, 1987, the Executive
Committee of the Conference concluded that a 12-month delay would be
beneficial and would allow the judiciary to proceed with implementation
more effectively. The Conference reaffirmed this conclusion at this
session. See "Sentencing Guidelines", suprapp. 54-55.

         The Committee reported that it had drafted and transmitted to all
chief district and circuit judges "Recommended Procedures for Guideline
Sentencing and Commentary", including a "Model Local Rule for
Guideline Sentencing". The Committee suggested that the district courts
consider adopting the Model Rule, as proposed or as modified to meet
     local needs, or incorporating the substance of its provisions in orders
     issued in individual cases.

               COMMIITEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                        BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM


i1         BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATOR INTERIM REGULATIONS

             The Judicial Conference ratified the March 1987 approval by its
I    Executive Committee (see "Bankruptcy Administrator Program", supra
1    pp. 53-54) of transition and interim regulations governing the selection
     and appointment of bankruptcy administrators, and of interim regulations
     governing their establishment, duties, and functions.

                       NUMBER AND DUTY STATIONS OF
                       BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATORS




                                                                                  I
            The interim regulations for the bankruptcy administrator
     program, reaffirmed by the Judicial Conference as noted immediately
     above, provide for Conference approval of the number of bankruptcy           11
     administrators and their official duty stations.                             11




              The Conference approved the Committee's recommendation
     that the administrator program will be best sewed by authorizing one
     bankruptcy administrator for each judicial distrid in the affected states
     (Alabama and North Carolina), and established their official duty stations
     as follows:
                  Alabama, Northern               Birmingham'
                  Alabama, Middle                 Montgomery
                  Alabama, Southern               Mobile
                  North Carolina, Eastern         Wilson
                  North Carolina, Middle          Greensboro
                  North Carolina, Western         Charlotte

1    'Also authoriied to maintain branch offices in Anniston, Decatur, and
     Tuscaloosa.
                       RECALL TO SERVICE OF RETIRED
                           BANKRUPTCY JUDGES
1

I
            At its March 1985 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 22), the Conference
    adopted regulations governing the ad hoc recall to service of retired
I
    bankruptcy judges. See 28 U.S.C. 155(b). In 1986, a separate provision
    was enacted by Congress to provide for the recall of bankruptcy judges
    and magistrates to render "substantial service" for a period of five years.
I
I   28 U.S.C. 375.

             The five-year provision permits the Judicial Conference to
    promulgate implementing regulations.         28 U.S.C. 375(h).         The
    Bankruptcy and Magistrates Committees determined that implementing
    regulations were unnecessary at this time. On the one hand, the ad hoc
    recall provided in section 155(b) establishes no limitation on the term of
    recall; on the other hand, the term "substantial service", included in
    section 375 and made a prerequisite to five-year recall, is too difficult to
    define.

             An amendment to the current regulations governing the ad hoc
    recall of retired bankruptcy judges is necessary, however. The regula-
    tions presently provide that recall shall be for a period fixed by the circuit
    council not to exceed six months. The Committee reported that such a
    short term imposes.undue administrative burdens on the circuit councils
    and serious restrictions on the recruitment and hiring of personnel to
    serve the retired bankruptcy judge. The Conference therefore approved
    an amendment to the regulations governing the recall of retired
    bankruptcy judges to provide that recall may be for fixed periods not to
    exceed one year.
                   COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                       FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

                          RECALL OF RETIRED MAGISTRATES

                At its March 1987 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 33), the Judicial
        Conference approved regulations for the recall to service of United
        States magistrates under 28 U.S.C. 636(h), patterned upon similar
        regulations previously promulgated by the Conference for the recall of
        retired bankruptcy judges under 28 U.S.C. 155(b). For the reasons
    I
        discussed immediately above, the Committee recommended, and the
        Conference approved, an amendment to the regulations for the recall of
t       United States magistrates to provide for recalls, and subsequent
        renewals, for periods not to exceed one year each.
I


              MAGISTRATE POSITION AT KWAJALEIN MISSILE RANGE
                                                                                     !I
                Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
        found that no qualified individual who has been a member of the bar for
        five years and who is currently a member of the Hawaiian bar is avail-
        able to serve as a part-time magistrate at Kwajalein Missile Range, and
        authorized the appointment of an individual who does not meet these
        requirements.

I                       CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSn'lONS

                 After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
        recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district
        courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Conference approved
        the following changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time and
        part-time magistrate positions. Unless otherwise indicated, these
        changes are to be effective when appropriated funds are available.




I       Puerto Rico:
                                     FIRST CIRCUIT
                                                                                     I
                       Continued the full-time magistrate positions at San Juan
                       which are due to expire on March 20, 1988 and April 19,       I/
                                                                                     I


                       1989, for additional eight-year terms.                        1;
                                                                                     /I




                                                                                     I
                                SECOND CIRCUIT

       New York, Northern:

                   Continued the authority of the clerk of court to perform
                   magistrate duties, at no additional compensation, for an
                   additional four-year term.

       New York, Southern:

                   Changed the location of the part-time magistrate position at
                   Poughkeepsie to Newburgh (or some other community in
                   Orange or Sullivan counties).

                                 THIRD CIRCUIT

       Delaware:

                   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Wilmington
                   for an additional eight-year term.
,I
                                FOURTH CIRCUIT

       Maryland:

                   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Upper
                   Marlboro for an additional four-year term at the currently
                   authorized salary of $36,250 per annum.
J/l!                              FIFTH CIRCUIT
111
'I
/ 1,   Louisiana, Western:
it
  I
             1.    Continued the authority of the clerk of court to perform
                   magistrate duties, at no additional compensation, for an
                   additional four-year term; and

             2.    Did not discontinue the part-time magistrate at Monroe
                   upon the filling of the new full-time position at Alexandria
                   (or Monroe). See September 1986 Session, Conf. Rpt., p.
                   80. Continued the part-time magistrate position at Monroe
                   until the end of the term (March 31, 1991) at the currently
                   authoriied salary of $2,134 per annum.
    Mississippi, Northern:

                 Continued the authority of the clerk of court to perform
                 magistrate duties for an additional four-year term at the       I\
                                                                                  J
                 aggregate compensation of the JSP-16 level.
                                                                                  1,
                                                                                  Xt


    Texas, Northern:

                 Continued the part-time magistrate position at Wichita Falls
                 for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
                 salary of $7,588 per annum.

    Texas, Western:




                                                                                  I
          1.     Continued the full-time magistrate position at San Antonio
                 which is due to expire on March 8, 1989, for an additional
                 eight-year term;

          2.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at San Antonio
                 for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
                 salary of $36,250 per annum;
                                                                                  (I
                                                                                  (1
          3.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Big Bend
                 National Park for an additional four-year term and in-
                 creased the salary from $13,992 to $16,127 per annum;
                 and                                                              II


          4.     Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
                 Pecos at $31,719 per annum.

                                SIXTH CIRCUIT
                                                                                  'I
I   Kentucky, Eastern:

                 Continued the full-time magistrate position at Lexington for
                 an additional eight-year term.                                   1
                                                                                  I
                                                                                 '/
I
!
    Kentucky, Western:
                                                                                 '!I
                                                                                 /.'




                                                                                 I
I                Continued the part-time magistrate position at Owensboro
                 for an additional four-year term and increased the salary
                 from $4,269 to $11,858 per annum.                               1 1


                                                                                 /I
           Ohio, Northern:

                          Continued the full-time magistrate position at Cleveland
                          which is due to expire on February 4, 1989, for an addi-
                          tional eight-year term.

           Tennessee, Eastern:

                          Continued the part-time magistrate position at Sevietville
                          (or Gatlinburg) for an additional four-year term and in-
                          creased the salary from $7,588 to $9,722 per annum.

           Tennessee, Middle:

                          Continued the full-time magistrate position at Nashville
                          which is due to expire on October 30, 1988, for an addi-
                          tional eight-year term.

                                      SEVENTH ClRCLllT
    111'
           Illinois, Northern:

                  1.      Continued the full-time magistrate position at Chicago
                          which is due to expire on November 8, 1990, for an
                          additional eight-year term; and

                  2.      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Rockford for
                          an additional four-year terrn at the currently autho~ized
                          salary of $36,250 per annum.


I   i
           Illinois, Central:

                          Discontinued the authority of the clerk of court to perform
                          magistrate duties.


II         Wisconsin, Western:

                  1.      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Ashland for
                          an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
                          salary of $2,134 per annum; and
               2.     Continued the authority of the clerk of court to perform
                      magistrate duties, at no additional compensation, for an
                      additional four-year t e n .

                                    EIGHTH CIRCUIT

         Arkansas, Westem:

                      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Hot Springs
                      for an additional four-year t e n at the currently authorized
                      salary of $13,992 per annum.

         Iowa, Northern:
    1
    $
               1.     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Cedar Rapids
    4                 for an additional eight-year t e n ; and
    2
               2.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Sioux City
                      for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
                      salary of $3,201 per annum.
    j
    Is
    ,
         Minnesota:

               1.     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Minneapolis
                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                 I

                      which is due to expire on September 30, 1989, for an
                      additional eight-year term; and
                                                                                                     I
               2.     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Minneapolis
                      (or St. Paul) which is due to expire on March 19, 1988, for
                      an additional eight-year t e n .                                           I,
                                                                                                 I!
         Missouri, Eastern:

               1.     Continued the full-time magistrate positions at St. Louis
                      which are due to expire on September 30, 1989 and
                      October 7, 1990, for additional eight-year terms; and                      I



                                                                                                 I'
               2.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Cape
                      Girardeau for an additional four-year t e n and increased
                      the salary from $2,134 to $4,269 per annum.



                                            87




                                                                           .   . ...   -   --~
                                                                                             .




I
                 Nebraska:                                                                     4




                               Continued the full-time magistrate position at Lincoln for an
                               additional eight-year term.

                 South Dakota:

                        1.    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Pierre for an
                              additional four-year term and increased the salary from
                              $16,127 to $27,390 per annum; and

                        2.    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Sioux Falls
                              for an addiiional four-year term at the currently authorized
                              salary of $9,722 per annum.

                                             N l N M CIRCUIT

                 Arizona:

                        1.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Yuma for an
                               additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
                               of $18,380 per annum; and

                        2.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Flagstaff (or
                               Page) for an additional four-year term at the currently
                               authorized salary of $9,722 per annum.
lii!r: , ~
 I:;,:
        ,,
                 California, Northem:
Ji; :
1 ,          :
;,,..
I!.
                              Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
,, '
                              Monterey from $31,719 to $36,250 per annum for a
I:
I'z
                              six-month period from October 1, 1987 to March 31, 1988,
                              at which time the salary will revert to the previous level.

                 California, Eastern:

                        1.    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Redding for
                              an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
                              salary of $18,380 per annum;
           2.      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Bakersfield
                   for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
                   salary of $9,722 per annum; and

           3.      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Susanville
                   for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
                   salary of $3,201 per annum.

                                 TENTH ClRCLllT




1
           2.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
                   Durango from $3,201 to $13,992 per annum.
1



     New Mexico:

           1.



           2.
                   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Alamogordo
                   for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
                   salary of $3,201 per annum;

                   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Gallup for an
                   additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary
                   of $2,134 per annum; and
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I




          3.       Continued the part-time magistrate position at Farmington
                   for an additional four-year term and increased the salary
                   from $2,134 to $4,269 per annum.


I!   Oklahoma, Eastern:

                   Continued the part-time magistrate position at McAlester
                                                                                  i
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
P
                   for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
                   salary of $7,588 per annum.
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  1,
      1.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Jackson for
             an'additiinal four-year term and increased the salary from
             $5,335 to $7,588 per annum; and

      2.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Sheridan for
             an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
             salary of $3,201 per annum.

                         ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Florida, Middle:

       1.    Continued the full-time magistrate position at Jacksonville
             which is due to expire on January 11, 1989, for an addi-
             tional eight-year term; and

      2.     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Orlando for
             an additional eight-year term.

Georgia, Northern:

             Continued the full-time magistrate positions at Atlanta
             which are due to expire on August 10, 1988 and October
             22, 1990, for additional eight-year terms.

Georgia, Middle:

             Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Valdosta
             effective December 31, 1987.
     COMMllTEE TO IMPLEMENT THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT

                      APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

          The Committee reported that $86,378,000 was available at the
beginning of the fiscal year 1987 for the implementation of the Criminal
Justice Act. Supplemental funding in the amount of $1,480,000 was
subsequently approved, bringing the total available for defender services
in the fiscal year 1987 to $87,858,000.

         During the first half of the fiscal year 1987, approximately 28,000
persons were represented under the Criminal Justice Act, compared to
approximately 26,000 in the first half of the fiscal year 1986, an increase
of 7.7 percent. Of these 28,000 persons represented, 15,765, or 56.3
percent, were represented by federal public and community defender
organizations. This represents a 6.4 percent increase over the 14,823
appointments received by federal defenders during the same period in
the fiscal year 1986.

                      BUDGET REQUESTS -
            FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

        The Conference approved supplemental budget requests for
federal public defender organizations for the fiscal year 1988 as follows:

       Arizona ........................                     $ 227,356
       California, Eastern ...............                    128.716
       California, Central. ...............                    85,350
       Kansas ........................                         69,821
       Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       28,059
       Nevada ........................                         87,837
       New Mexico ....................                        229,8 16
       North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      70,577
       Oklahoma, Western,
         Northern, and Eastern. ..........                    133,914
       Oregon ........................                         21,629
       Tennessee, Western .............                        53,250
       Texas, Southern. ................                      329,563
       Texas, Western . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       265,9 17
       Washington, WesternIAlaska . . . . . . .                27,375

       TOTAL       .......................                  $1,759,180

                                            97
       The Conference also approved budget requests for the fiscal
year 1989 for the federal public defender organizations as follows:

     Arizona .......................                        $1,316,783
     California, Northern ..............
     California, Eastern ...............
     California, Central. ...............
     Colorado.......................
     Connecticut. ....................                          517,161
     Florida, Northern. ................
     Florida, Middle ..................
     Florida, Southern ................
     Hawaii .......................
     Illinois, Southern and
       Central/Missouri, Eastern .........
     Kansas .......................
     Louisiana, Eastern ...............
     Maryland.......................
     Massachusetts ..................
     Minnesota. .....................
     Missouri, Western. ...............
     Nevada .......................
     New Jersey. ....................
     New Mexico ....................
     North Carolina, Eastern ...........
     Ohio, Northern ..................
     Oklahoma, Western, Northern,
        and Eastern. ..................
     Oregon .......................
     Pennsylvania, Middle and
       Western ......................
     Puerto Rico. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
     South Carolina ..................
     Tennessee, Middle. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
     Tennessee, Western .............
     Texas, Southern. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
     Texas, Western .................
     Virgin Islands ...................
     Washington, Western/Alaska .......
     West Virginia, Southern . . . . . . . . . . .

             TOTAL.       ..................                $31,039,875
         The Committee will entertain requests for supplemental funding
if workload increases or other factors warrant reconsideration of funding
needs.

                     GRANT REQUESTS -
             COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

         The Conference approved supplemental sustaining grants for
the fiscal year 1988 for the following community defender organizations:

      Federal Defenders of San Diego, Inc.,
       California, Southern .............           $234,521

      Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
       Georgia, Northern. ..............               80,685

      The Legal Aid Society of New York,
       Federal Defender Services Unit,
       New York, Eastern 8 Southern. ....            302,577

             TOTAL ...................              $617;783

The Conference did not approve the fiscal year 1988 supplemental grant
request submitted by the Legal Aid and Defender Association of Detroit,
Federal Defender Division.

       The Conference also approved sustaining grants for the fiscal
year 1989 for the six community defender organizations as follows:

       Federal Defenders of San Diego, Inc.,
        California, Southern .............        $1,984,225

       Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
        Georgia, Northern. ..............            729,690

       Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
        Illinois, Northem ................          1,063,000
       Legal Aid & Defender Assn. of
        Detroit, Federal Defender
        Division, Michigan, Eastern .......

       The Legal Aid Society of New York,
        Federal Defender Services Unit,
        New York, Eastern & Southern. ....

       Defender Assn. of Philadelphia,
        Federal Court Division,
        Pennsylvania, Eastern ...........             965,982

       TOTAL   ........................            $8,672,593


        The Committee will consider requests for supplemental sustain-
ing grants ifworWoad increases or other factors warrant reconsideration
of the approved sustaining grants.

         ALTERNATIVE HOURLY COMPENSATION RATES IN
            DEATH PENALTY HABEAS CORPUS CASES

         Subsection (d)(l) of the Criminal Justice Act, as amended (18
U.S.C. 3006A(d)(l)), establishes hourly maximum rates of attorney
compensation of $60 per hour for time expended in court, and $40 per
hour for time reasonably expended out of court. The subsection also
authorizes the Judicial Conference to establish an alternative hourly
compensation rate, not to exceed $75 per hour, if the Conference
determines that a higher rate is justified for a circuit or for particular
districts within a circuit. Guidelines pursuant to this provision were
approved by the March 1987 Conference (Conf. Rpt., p. 38).

         The Committee reported its concern that there may not be
sufficient resources in the CJA appropriation to cover payment of higher
rates for all districts from which applications may reasonably be ex-
pected. In order to ensure that resources are available to provide relief
in the areas where the need is the greatest, the Committee will consider
all such requests at its next meeting in January, 1988, and established
an October 15, 1987 deadline for submission of alternative rate applica-
tions. With respect to requests already received, the Committee
deferred consideration for all but three districts, the Northern, Central,
and Eastern Districts of California. These districts provided compelling
justification for a special alternative rate for death penalty habeas corpus
cases.

         Effective with respect to services performed on or after October
1, 1987, and subject to the availability of funds, the Conference ap-
proved a temporary special alternative maximum rate of $75 per hour,
for both in and out of court time, for representation in death penalty
habeas corpus cases in the Northern, Central, and Eastern Districts of
California.

                              GUIDELINES

         The Conference approved a new subparagraph C to paragraph
3.12 of the Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act,
relating to commercial duplication of transcripts in multidefendant cases,
applicable to transcripts ordered on or after October 1, 1987.

               COMMlnEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
                    OF THE CRIMINAL LAW

           INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS ACT


        The Department of Justice has proposed that the Interstate
Agreement on Detainers Act (84 Stat. 1397) be amended to limit the
participation of the United States in the Act to that of a "sending state".
The proposal would also provide for Speedy Trial Act protection for state
prisoners compelled to stand trial in the federal courts for federal
offenses. See 18 U.S.C. 3161(c).

      On the recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Confer-
ence voted to support the proposed amendment to the Interstate
Agreement on Detainers Act.
                COMMITTEE ON THE OPERATION OF
                      THE JURY SYSTEM

              AMENDMENTS TO THE JURY SELECTION
                     AND SERVICE ACT

         In September, 1985 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 83-84), the Judicial Confer-
ence approved the transmittal to Congress of a package of five technical
amendments to the Jury Selection and Service Act, 28 U.S.C. 1863 9
seq. On the recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed
to recommend an additional technical amendment, to 28 U.S.C. 1865, to
authorize district courts to use non-court personnel, such as operators of
optical scanning equipment, to assist in the filling of the qualified jury
wheel.

      MACHINE READABLE QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAIRE

         In March, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. 39), the Conference authorized
the District Court for the District of New Mexico to use a machine
readable form of the juror qualification questionnaire previously ap-
proved by the Conference under 28 U.S.C. 1869(h). At this session, the
Conference authorized the expanded use of the questionnaire in the
Middle District of Florida, the Western District of Texas, and such other
districts as the new Judicial Improvements Committee shall designate.
The Conference also authorized the Administrative Office, in consub-
ation with the Judicial Improvements Committee, to make necessary
non-substantive changes in the form of the questionnaire.

               COMMllTEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES

                          AMERICAN SAMOA

        At present, the Secretary of the Interior may revise judgments of
the courts of American Samoa; there is currently no formal link between
the Samoan territorial court system and the Article Ill federal system,
although there is a theory by which the Secretary's action (or inaction)
may be challenged in a district court as an abuse of discretion. See King
v. Morton, 520 F.2d 1440 (D.C. Cir. 1975). The Committee reported that
all segments of the Samoan business community, bar, and bench
consulted by the Committee find this system unsatisfactory because final
decisions are made by administrators rather than judicial officers.          I
         The Committee proposed the enactment of legislation to provide
that decisions of the High Court of American Samoa, on matters other
than local law, shall be reviewable by writ of certiorari to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The Conference agreed to
this recommendation, and also agreed to support enactment of legisla-
tion to provide that suits in the nature of mandamus against the Secre-
tary of the Interior respecting American Samoa shall be brought only in
the District Court for the District of Hawaii (provided that such action is
properly brought in a district court of the United States). ,

             COMMIlTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
               CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS

          The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability
Orders reported that, since its last report, the Committee had received
and acted upon one petition for review, ordering a public reprimand of a
district judge for an extended scolding of a lawyer in open court in the
presence of other lawyers and spectators and without affording the
lawyer an opportunity for response. The Committee found such conduct
to be intemperate, injudicious, and censorial.

         RULES FOR THE PROCESSING OF CERTIFICATES
       FROM JUDICIAL COUNCILS THAT A JUDICIAL OFFICER
        MIGHT HAVE ENGAGED IN IMPEACHABLE CONDUCT

         The Conference approved the following Rules for the Processing
of Certificates from Judicial Councils that a Judicial Officer has Engaged
In Conduct that Might Constitute Grounds for Impeachment:

         When a certificate from a judicial council that a judicial officer
         has engaged in conduct that might constitute grounds for
         impeachment is premised entirely upon a judgment of convic-
         tlon in a criminal case and the judgment has become final by
         the exhaustion or termination of all rights of direct judicial
         review, the Judicial Conference, in its discretion, may accept
         the final judgment as conclusive and, without notice to the
         accused judicial officer, make its own determination as to
         whether or not it will fotward a final certificate to the House of
         Representatives of the United States Congress.

     2. Except when the Judicial Conference of the United States
        determines that the full Conference should act upon the matter
    pursuant to Rule 1, all such certification matters shall be
    referred in the first instance, by the Conference or its Executive
    Committee, to an ad hoc committee of Conference members or
    to the Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and
    Disability Orders for processing and the preparation of a report
    with recommendations back to the Conference.

3. When a certification proceeding is referred to a committee for a
   report and recommendation as provided in Rule 2, the relevant
   committee shall (1) provide the accused judicial officer with a
   copy of the certificate and a copy of all papers filed with the
   Judicial Conference in support of the certificate unless a copy
   of all such documents has previously been furnished to the
   accused judicial officer, or, (2) in its discretion, make all such
   papers available for inspection by him and his counsel in the
   Administrative Office in Washington, D.C., or some other
   convenient, designated place.

4. The accused judicial officer shall have sixty days within which
    to file a written response to the certificate. The sixty-day period
    will begin to run when (1) a copy of all relevant papers is
    furnished or made available for his inspection, or, (2) when he
    is given written notice of his right to file such a written
    response, whichever later occurs.

    For good cause, the committee may extend the time within
    which a written response may be filed.

5. The committee may receive written argument from a com-
   plainant if the committee determines that it may be assisted by
   such receipt.

6. Oral argument ordinarily will not be allowed, but may be
   allowed if the committee determines that it would be assisted
   by it.

7. In the preparation and filing of his wriien response and in oral
   argument, if allowed, the judicial officer is entitled t o repre-
   sentation by counsel of his choice at his expense.
                8. (a) Ifthe Judicial Conference or its committee determines that
                    additional investigation is necessary or appropriate, notice that
                    such investigation will be conducted will be given in advance to
                    the accused judicial officer. The notice will be given at least
                    ten days in advance of the commencement of the investigation,
                    unless an emergency situation requires an earlier commence-
                    ment of investigatory measures.

                    (b) During the course of any such investigation, the accused
                    judicial officer will be afforded those opportunities as provided
                    in 28 U.S.C. 372(c)(11)(B), and the complainant will be af-
                    forded those opportunities as provided in 28 U.S.C.
                    372(c)(11)(C).

                     (c) At the conclusion of any such investigation, the investiga-
                    tion panel will file a written report, a copy of which will be
                    furnished the accused judicial officer or made available for his
                    inspection and, if the committee decides that it is appropriate,
                    to the complainant. The report of the investigation will be made
                    a part of the record, and the time within which the accused
                    judicial officer may file a written response will not begin to run
                    before a copy of the report is furnished to him or made avail-
                    able for his inspection.

                9. The committee will file with the Conference a report, including a
                   recommendation or recommendations. The report will be
                   received by the Conference as the reports of other of its
                   committees. The Conference may adopt the report, including
                   its recommendations, in its entirety, or adopt it in part and
                   reject it in part.

                10. Since the committee's report is an internal document and an
                    accused judicial officer will already have been given an
                    opportunity to file a full written response to the certificate, a
                    copy of the committee's report need not be furnished to him.

                           COMMllTEE ON THE BICENTENNIAL
                               OF THE CONSTITUTION

                  The Committee on the Bicentennial of the Constitution reported
          on its participation in the Bicentennial effort.


                                               99




_   _ _ . - - _ _ C _
                                    ---   --
        AD HOC COMMITTEE ON SENTENCING GUIDELINES

        As discussed supra pp. 54-55 ("Sentencing Guidelines"), on July
8, 1987, the Executive Committee considered and acted upon recom-
mendations from the Ad Hoc Committee on Sentencing Guidelines,
which the Conference ratified in plenary session.

           AD HOC COMMITTEE ON THE INTERNATIONAL
           APPELLATE JUDGES CONFERENCE 1989190     -
         For approximately the last decade, appellate judges of many
countries have held biennial lnternational Appellate Judges Con-
ferences. Delegates, normally among the foremost judicial officers of
each country, gather at a pre-selected place to discuss for three or four
days mutual problems and solutions. Delegates pay their own transpor-
tation but the host country pays for food and lodging of all delegates at
the Conference. Previous conferences have been held in the Philip-
pines, India, Australia, and Malaysia.

         Prior to the Fourth lnternational Appellate Judges Conference in
Malaysia, Chief Judge James R. Browning obtained authoriiy from the
Executive Committee to invite the group to hold its Fifth lnternational
Conference in the United States in 1989 or 1990. See "lnternational
Appellate Judges Conference", supra p. 54. Chief Judge Browning
extended the invitation, which was unanimously and enthusiastically
received. The Ad Hoc Committee on the lnternational Appellate Judges
Conference reported that it had met to review the history and nature of
the Conference and to make tentative plans for holding the Fifth Interna-
tional Conference in Washington, D.C., in connection with the ongoing
celebration of the Bicentennial of the Constitution. Attendance by all
members of the Judicial Conference, the Chief Justices of the 50 states,
and a delegation from each of approximately 130 other countries, is
anticipated.

       On the recommendation of the Ad Hoc Committee, the Confer-
ence authorized the Chief Justice to appoint an International Appellate
Judges Conference Committee to work with the Conference's Committee
on the Bicentennial of the Constitution and othq governmental and
non-governmental entities, to accomplish the planning for and conduct of
                     MEMORIAL RESOLUTIONS

       Noting the death of Wade H. McCree, Jr., the Conference
adopted the following resolution:

        The Judicial Conference of the United States notes with
    sadness the death of Wade H. McCree, Jr., on August 30, 1987 in
    Detroit, Michigan.

            Wade McCree's public service included five years as a
    judge of the United States District Court for the Eastem District of
    Michigan and eleven years on the United States Court of Appeals
    for the Sixth Circuit. He resigned from the Court of Appeals upon
    being appointed Solicitor General of the United States in 1977.
    Judge McCree eamed a reputation in each of these positions as a
    wise, scholarly and compassionate person. He was admired by all
    who were familiar with his wiiings and speeches, or who engaged
    in conversation with him, as a true master of the English language.

             Wade McCree was bom in Iowa and spent a part of his
    childhood in Hawaii. Michigan was his home throughout his adult
    years and he was identified there as an active participant in many
    civic, cultural and charitable pursuits. Judge McCree was educated
    at the Boston Latin School, Fiik University and Harvard Law
    School. His studies a1 Harvard were intempted for service in the
    United Stales Army during World War II. Always deeply interested
    in education, he served on the Harvard Board of Overseers and
    was Vice-Chairman of the Fisk Board of Trustees.

             Following completion of his term as Solicitor General,
    Judge McCree was named the Lewis M. Simes Professor of Law at
    the University of Michigan and occupied that chair at the time of his
    death. A gifted teacher, he eamed the respect and affection of the
    faculty and students, who found in him not only a memorable
    instructor but a willing counselor as well.

            Judge McCree was a member of the first Board of the
    Federal Judicial Center and made significant contributions to the
   development of the Center's role in improving the administration of
   justice in the United States. He was a valuable member of several
   committees of the Judicial Conference and was serving on the
   Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure at the time of his
     death. His wise counsel and delightful presence will be missed by
     all who were privileged to work with him.

             The members of the Judicial Conference convey their
     deepest sympathy to Judge McCree's family, and request that this
     Resolution be sent to hi widow, Dores McCree, as a sign of our
     respect.

       Noting the death of Judge Robert L. Taylor, the Conference
adopted following resolution:

             The Conference notes with sadness the death of Judge
     Robert L. Taylor on July 11, 1987. Judge Taylor was a distin-
    guished judge of the Eastern District of Tennessee for over
    thii-seven years and was admired by all who knew and worked
    with him. During his years on the federal bench, he served as a
    member of the Judicial Conference of the United States from 1972
    to 1975 as the district judge representative from the Sixth Circuit.
    He also served on various Conference committees, including the
    Executive Committee and the Committees on Trial Practice and
    Technique, Pretrial Procedure, and Rules for Admission to Practice
    in the Federal Courts. Retired Chief Justice Burger appointed him
    as a mernber of the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments in 1977
    where he served until his death. We, the members of the Con-
    ference, convey our sympathy to hi widow, Florence, and his
    family, and request that this resolution be sent to them as a mark of
    our respect and esteem.

                           RESOLUTIONS

       Noting the resignation of Judge Edward Thaxter Gignoux as
Chairman of the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, the
Conference adopted the following resolution:
                                                                             !
                                                                             f
             The Judicial Conference of the United States, with great        !t-.
    appreciation, profound respect, and no little regret, notes the
    resignation of Judge Edward Thaxter Gignoux from his position as
    Chairman of this Conference's Committee on Rules of Practice and
    Procedure. Judge Gignoux's able direction of the parent commit-
    tee of the various advisory committees of this Conference and on
    this Conference itself, will be sorely missed. The Conference takes




                                                                  ...-   -
this occasion to pay tribute to Judge Gignoux for his many contribu-
tions to the Conference and the judiciary.

         Judge Gignoux was born In Maine and received both his
undergraduate and law degrees from Harvard University. He
served as a Lieutenant in the United States Army from 1942 to
1946 and afterwards briefly resumed his practice of law in
Washington, D.C. before returning to Maine to associate with the
firm of Verrill, Dana, Walker, Philbrick and Whitehouse. When he
entered on duty as the ninth United States District Judge for the
District of Maine on September 23, 1957, Judge Gignoux was the
nation's youngest federal judge, a happy coincidence permitting the
extensive use of his many abilities by the judiciary. He became
chief judge of the district on November 8, 1978 and served in that
capacity until he elected to take senior status on June 1, 1983.

         Judge Gignoux's contributions to this body and to the
judiciary of the United States generally are nearly too numerous to
mention and can only be summarized. He was the district judge
representative to the Conference from the First Circuit for two
consecutive three-year terms between 1967 and 1973. He has
been a member of the Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules,
1960-1972; a member of the Committee on Trial Practice and
Technique, 1965-1967; a member of the Committee on the
Operation of the Jury System, 1966-1968; a member of the
Committee on Court Administration, 1969-1980; Chairman of the
Subcommittee on Supporting Personnel, 1968-1970; a member of
the Review Committee, 1975-1978; and Chairman of the Subcom-
mittee on Federal Jurisdiction, 1969-1970. He served as the only
federal district court judge on the Traynor Committee that drafted
the American Bar Association Code of Judicial Conduct, and he
sewed as a member of the Conference's Judicial Ethics Com-
mittee, 1978-1985. He was also a member of the Ad Hoc Commit-
tee on the Media Petition ("Cameras in the Courtroom"),
1983-1984. He was appointed to his position as Chairman of the
Standing Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure in 1980.




                              103
             Judge Gignoux has not limited his public sewices to the
     federal judiciary. He has sewed local government, charitable
     groups and bar associations. He has served his law school and
     the United States State Department. And he has been available to
     the Chief Justice to serve outside his district in difficult and sensi-
     tive cases. He has performed all of these tasks, the rewarding as
     well as the difficult, with his characteristic patience, courtesy, and
     high competence.

              The Chief Justice and the members of the Judicial Confer-
     ence of the United States extend their deep appreciation on behalf
     of the entire United States judiciary to Judge Edward Thaxter
     Gignoux for his contributions and ask that a copy of this tribute be
     entered into the Report of the Conference as a mark of our appre-
     ciation and respect.


        Noting the resignation of Judge Elmo B. Hunter as Chairman of
the Committee on Court Administration, the Conference adopted the
following resolution:


         WHEREAS, the Honorable Elmo B. Hunter has sewed as
     Member and Chairman of the Committee on Court Administration
     of the Judicial Conference of the United States for almost two
     decades; and

         WHEREAS, Judge Hunter, throughout his years of distin-
     guished service with the Committee, devoted long hours of diligent,
     dedicated and unstinting effort to the full consideration of numerous
     and important matters coming before the Committee; and

         WHEREAS, Judge Hunter initiated a number of innovations in
     the management of the work of the Committee, including the
     organization of joint meetings of all its subcommittees, and coordi-
     nation of its work with that of other Conference committees when
     cooperative efforts were essential; and

        WHEREAS, Judge Hunter consistently presided over his
    Committee's meetings with commendable efficiency, good humor,
    and total fairness, ensuring the opportunity for each of its members
    to be heard, and managed the work of the Committee and the

                                    104




                                                              -                -
     reporting of its recommendations to the Judicial Conference of the
     United States with distinction and accuracy; and

          WHEREAS, Judge Hunter, in his many presentations of
     testimony to Congress, reflected great credit upon himsel, the
     Committee, the Judicial Conference, and the entire federal
     judiciary; and

        WHEREAS, the dependably successful performance of the
     Committee's role, during an especialJy demanding era, was due in
     major part to the wise guidance and outstanding leadership of
     Judge Hunter,

         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED

          That the Judicial Conference of the United States, assembled
     this 21st day of September, 1987, unanimously adopts this Resolu-
     tion in Recognition of the Services of the Honorable Elmo B.
     Hunter.


                               ELECTION

        The Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
Federal Judicial Center Bankruptcy Judge Robert E. Ginsberg (for a term
of four years to succeed Banknrptcy Judge Martin V.B. Bostetter, Jr.,
whose term expired on October 1,1987).

                     PRETERMISSION OF TERMS
                    OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS

        Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, the Conference approved the preter-
mission of terms of the following United States Courts of Appeals during
the calendar year 1988: the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit at
Asheville, North Carolina; the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit at
Los Angeles, California; and the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit at
Wichita, Kansas and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
                                                                             ..; -,, ;,,.;
                                                                                         ..,z~+~3.~~LF~b~~~7~i:.*
                                                                             . . .;,       .,.
                                                                                             .,          ;;,,*          ?...;        :.      "..- "4""" ',.:.',;;?,''.,,'.;
                                                                                                                        ; ;.?I.:..%. ?2:.-..?L>-w!m77?~T>v<'%..
                                                                                                                    : :>f.
                                                                              ;
                                                                          : . . , :, . '    --. ;.~
                                                                                                       .,;.2..,,.
                                                                                                  *&pri *y>$.*:>!., ;:,?;~.:;                                  ,.
                                                                                                                                                                .c ;
                                                                                                                                                                   ...   . ::i:=':..::":*~;
                                                                                           .      -.                                         ..             ',.                      .      .
                                                     &            >   ~                                                             .             .               . - .- .
                                                                                                                                                                    k
                                                                                                                                                                    .                    . ,... .:>:
                                                                                                                                                                                            r     .*-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                         . .. I ..,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;




                                                                              FUNDING

                                   All of the foregoing recommendations which require the expendi-
                           ture of funds for implementation were approved by the Conference
                           subject to the availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the
                           Conference might establish for the use of available resources.

                                                RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

                                    The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters
                           considered at this session where necessary for legislative or administra-
                           tive action.




                                                                                           Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                                           Presiding



                           October 7, 1987




                     .--
                     -.
                             .   -   .
                                         ~~~.   -
                                                -~
                                                         .
                                                             ~.
                                                                  ~           ~   --           ,.,I_.          _    -      .:,. .   ~

                                                                                                                                        ..   ..       ~   :>..   '.$.   :,:.   -x  ,..??
                                                                                                                                                                                . .,   ;---.-=.
                                                                                                                                                                                               . --.-,-....
                                                                                                                                                                                             ;.,-....i   .~
- . .. .   .   . ,
