                      REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
                  JLlDlClAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

                                      March 15, 1988


                The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on
        March 15, 1988, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United
        States issued under 28 U.S.C. 331. The Chief Justice presided and the
        following members of the Conference were present:


    I   First Circuit:

                   Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
                   Chief Judge Juan M. Perez-Gimenez, District of
                           Puerto Rico

        Second Circuit:

                   Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
                   Chief Judge John T. Curtin, Western District of
                           New York

        Third Circuit:

                   Chief Judge John J. Gibbons
                   Chief Judge William J. Nealon, Jr., Middle District of
                           Pennsylvania

        Fourth Circuit:
L
I


                   Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter
                   Judge Frank A. Kaufman, District of Maryland


    I   Fifth Circuit:

                   Chief Judge Charles Clark
                   Chief Judge L. T. Senter, Jr., Northern District of
                           Mississippi
Sixth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Pierce Lively
          Chief Judge Phillip Pratt, Eastern District of
                  Michigan

Seventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge William J. Bauer
          Judge Sarah Evans Barker, Southern District of Indiana

Eighth Circuit:

          Judge Gerald W. Heaney'
          Chief Judge John F. Nangle, Eastern District of
                  Missouri

Ninth Circuit:

          Chief Judge James R. Browning
          Chief Judge Robert F. Peckham, Northern District of
                  California

Tenth Circuit:

          Chief Judge William J. Holloway
          Chief Judge Sherman G. Finesilver, District of Colorado

Eleventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge Paul H. Roney
          Chief Judge Sam C. Pointer, Jr., Northern District of
                  Alabama

District of Columbia Circuit:

          Chief Judge Patricia M. Wald
          Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District of
                  Columbia


*Designated by the Chief Justice in place of Chief Judge Donald P. Lay,
 who was unable to attend.
                                 2
Federal Circuit:

          Chief Judge Howard Ti Markey

Court of International Trade:

          Chief Judge Edward D. Re


         Circuit Judges Boyce F. Martin, Jr. and Robert S. Vance, District
Judge Richard M. Bilby, and Senior District Judge Walter T. McGovern
attended all or some of the sessions of the Conference. Circuit Execu-
tives Steven Flanders (Second Circuit), Samuel W. Phillips (Fourth
Circuit), Lydia Comberrel (Fifth Circuit), James A. Higgins (Sixth Circuit),
Collins T. Fitzpatrick (Seventh Circuit), June L. Boadwine (Eighth
Circuit), Francis L. Bremson (Ninth Circuit),. Eugene J. Murret (Tenth
Circuit), and Norman E. Zoller (Eleventh Circuit), and Circuit Executive-
designates Vincent Flanagan (First Circuit) and John Hehman (Third
Circuit) were also present.

         Congressman Neal Smith, Chairman of the House Appropria-
tions Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, State, the Judiciary and
Related Agencies, attended the Conference briefly and spoke on matters
pending in the Congress of interest to the judiciary. The Attorney
General of the United States, Honorable Edwin Meese Ill, and Solicitor
General Charles Fried addressed the Conference on matters of mutual
interest to the Department of Justice and the Conference. Circuit Judge
Thomas J. Meskill, a member of the Conference's Budget Committee,
briefed the Conference on the status of the judiciary's appropriations
requests.

         L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts, attended the sessions of the Conference, as did
James E. Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General
Counsel; Robert E. Feidler, Legislative and Public Affairs Officer;
Karen K. Siegel, Chief, Office of the Judicial Conference Secretariat; and
David A. Sellers, Public Information Officer. Judge John C. Godbold,
Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also attended the sessions of the
Conference. Noel Augustyn (Administrative Assistant to the Chief
Justice), Richard Schickele (Staff Counsel to the United States Supreme
Court), and Judy B. Sloan (Judicial Fellow) were also present.
       The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Judge Godbold,
presented a report on the activities of the Center.

                     REPORT OF 'THE DIRECTOR
                   OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
                   OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS

        The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, L. Ralph Mecham, submitted to the Conference a brief report
summarizing the workload of the federal judiciary during the calendar
year 1987.

                JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

         Mr. Mecham reported that during 1987, the number of cases
appealed to the 12 regional courts of appeals rose nearly three percent
to 35,700, due primarily to a substantial increase in appeals of state
prisoner petitions. Although terminations increased four percent this
year, they did not keep pace with filings and, consequently, the pending
caseload rose two percent to 26,894 on December 31, 1987. Filings in
the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit rose more
than 18 percent to 1,406. The largest increases were in appeals from
the Merit Systems Protection Board and from the U.S. district courts.
Dispositions declined 30 percent, dropping below the level of filings. As
a result, the pending caseload climbed seven percent to 674.

           In the United States district courts, the number of civil filings
declined for the second consecutive year, dropping more than four
percent to 233,292 (an average of 406 civil cases per authorized
judgeship). The largest decreases were in cases involving recovery of
overpayments of veterans' benefits, asbestos personal injury product
liability suits, and marine contract actions. Civil terminations declined at
a faster rate than filings (down eight percent), resulting in a one percent
increase in the pending caseload. On December 31, 1987, there were
247,107 civil cases pending in the district courts.

          Criminal filings continued to increase, rising more than four
percent to 44,335 (an average of 77 criminal cases per authorized
judgeship). The increase in criminal filings was due primarily to substan-
tial rises in prosecutions under the Drug Abuse Prevention and Control
Act and for fraud. Criminal dispositions rose six percent but remained
below the level of filings. Accordingly, the pending caseload climbed
nearly five percent to 26,454 on December 31,1987.
         The rate of increase in the number of bankruptcy petitions
slowed considerably during 1987. Total bankruptcy filings rose only
eight percent to 574,849, compared to a 28 percent increase a year ago.
Non-business bankruptcies rose ten percent, while business
bankruptcies rose only one percent. Despite a 29 percent increase in
terminations, the pendirlg caseload grew five percent, reaching a record
level of 819,726 on December 31, 1987.

        Mr. Mecham also reported that as of March 1, 1988, there were
11 vacancies among the 168 judgeship positions authorized for the
United States courts of appeals and 34 vacancies among the 575
authorized judgeship positions in the United States district courts.

                       JUDICIAL PANEL ON
                     MULTlDlSTRlCT LITIGATION

          A written statement filed with the Conference by the Judicial
Panel on Muhidistrict Litigation indicated that during the six-month period
ended December 31, 1987, -the Panel centralized 122 civil actions
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407. Of that number, 46 were transferred for
coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings with 76 actions origi-
nally filed in the transferee districts. The Panel denied transfer of 16
actions.

       Since its creation in 1968, the Panel has centralized 16,173 civil
actions for pretrial proceedings in carrying out its statutory
responsibilities.

                       EXECUTIVE COMMlTrEE

         The Executive Committee of the Judicial Conference reported
that, since the last session of the Conference in September, 1987, the
Executive Committee had addressed the following matters on the
Conference's behalf:
                             NOTIFICATION

        The Report of the Proceedings of the September 1987 Judicial
Conference indicates that, in connection with its consideration of the
report of the Committee to Study the Judicial Conference, the Confer-
ence approved the following principle (Conf. Rpt., p. 58):

         When the Administrative Office recommends to a
         committee that a request submitted by a judge or court
         be rejected, the committee chairman should consider
         directing that the judge or court be notified in sufficient
         time to submit responsive material; similarly, when a
         committee votes to reject the request of a judge or
         court, the chairman should consider notifying the
         requester promptly.

Responding to the suggestion that the Judicial Conference intended to
require notification rather than merely to suggest it, the Executive
Committee established the following interim policy:

         When the Administrative Office recommends to a
         committee that a request submitted by a judge or court
         be rejected, the Director should notify the judge or          -.
         court promptly; similarly, when a committee votes to
         reject the request of a judge or court, the chairman
         should notify the requester promptly, unless there are
         compelling reasons for not doing so.


         At its March 15, 1988, session, the Judicial Conference made
the interim policy permanent.

                JURISDICTION OF COMMITTEES;
            PROCEDLIRES FOR ASSEMBLING AGENDAS

        Among the duties assigned the Executive Committee by the
Judicial Conference in September, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. 57), were to
review the jurisdiction of each Conference committee, and to establish
and publish procedures for assembling agendas so that interested courts
and judges will know how to get matters before the Conference and its
committees.
              On January 6, 1988, the Executive Committee published a
     report detailing the jurisdiction of each Conference committee, a list of all
    committee members (with their terms), and procedures for assembling
    agendas. Under the procedures, courts and judges desiring to have
     matters considered by the Conference may transmit their requests, in
    writing, to the Director of the Administrative Office (Attention: Office of
    the Judicial Conference Secretariat). The Director is delegated the
    responsibility of assigning matters to the appropriate committee and
    notifying the requesting court or judge of the committee assignment. If
    jurisdictional questions arise between committees, they will be resolved
    on a priority basis by the Executive Committee.

              ALTERNA1-IVE HOURLY COMPENSATION RATES
               INDEATHPENALTYHABEASCORPUSCASES

             In September, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 94-95), the Judicial Confer-
    ence approved a special alternative maximum.rate of $75 per hour, for
    both in- and out-of-court time, for representation in death penalty habeas
    corpus cases in the Northern, Central, and Eastern Districts of California.
    Effective November 6, 1987, the Executive Committee agreed to extend
    the $75 rate, in death penalty habeas corpus cases only, to the Southern
    District of California. See "Alternative Hourly Compensation Rates",
    infra p. 15.

               APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1988

           The Executive Committee approved a spending plan for the
    appropriation "Salaries and Expenses" and supplemental appropriations
    requests for certain judicial accounts, both for the fiscal year 1988. See
    also "Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1988", -      infra p. 10. Since
    expenditure levels vary from one month to the next, the plan was
    approved for the second quarter of the fiscal year, through March 31,
    1988. An updated financial plan will be submitted to the Executive
    Committee in April, 1988.
I
               COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
I
            The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that, at its
    organizational meeting, the Director and his senior staff provided a full
    and comprehensive educational briefing on the operations and programs
    of the Administrative Office. 'The Committee plans to meet in April,
    1988, to develop an implementing strategy for its role in providing advice
    and support to the Administrative Office and in monitoring the agency's
    general performance.
          COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                   BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                             RESOLUTION

         Noting the superior effort of the Director of the Administrative
Office and members of his staff in obtaining the enactment of legislation
which sets the salary of bankruptcy judges and a ceiling on the salary of
full-time United States magistrates at 92 percent of the salary paid
United States district judges, the Judicial Conference adopted the
following resolution:

             Whereas, salary adjustments allowed bankruptcy
         judges and United States magidrates during 1987
         were grossly inadequate with relation to the services
         performed by these judicial officers; and

             Whereas, L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Ad-
         ministrative Office of the United States Courts recog-
         nized the need to provide salary relief to bankruptcy
         judges and magistrates and solicited the support of the
         Judicial Conference of the United States to petition
         Congress for a more equitable salary increase; and

            Whereas, at its March 1987 meeting the Judicial
         Conference unanimously resolved to seek immediate
         salary increases for bankruptcy judges and
         magistrates; and

            Whereas, Robert E. Feidler, Legislative and Public
         Affairs Officer of the United States Courts and Denis
         Hauptly, counsel of that office, successf~llyachieved
         passage of legislation authorizing salary increases for
         bankruptcy judges and United States magistrates
         equivalent to 92 percent of the salary of United States
         District Judges;

             Now therefore, be it resolved, that the Judicial
         Conference of the United States Committee on the
         Administration of the Bankruptcy System does. hereby
         express to L. Ralph Mecham, Director, Robert E.
         Feidler, Legislative and Public Affairs Officer, and
             Denis Hauptly, counsel, of the Administrative Office of
             the United States Courts, its deep appreciation and
             sincere gratitude for their initiative and untiring efforts
             in obtaining for bankruptcy judges and United States
             magistrates substantial pay increases and particularly
             recognizes the diligence and vigilance of Denis
             Hauptly throughout the entire legislative process;

                 Be it further resolved, that the Judicial Conference
             adopts this resolution as its own and orders it recorded
             in the Proceedings of the Conference.

I                         ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS

            Due to an unusual increase in bankruptcy filings, the Conference
    voted to recommend that Congress authorize one additional bankruptcy
    judgeship for the Eastern District of Texas.
I

                 DELINEATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES FOR
                     CLOSINGBANKRUPTCYCASES

             In order to provide guidance to bankruptcy judges and clerks in
    the delineation of responsibilities for closing bankruptcy cases in the
    aftermath of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-598)
    and the Bankruptcy Judges, United States Trustees, and Family Farmer
    Bankruptcy Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-554), the Conference adopted
    the following policy statement:

                The United States trustee program is being phased
             in across the country region by region. By statute,
             United States trustees appoint case trustees and
             supervise their performance.        This includes the
             auditing of trustee reports and fees and the monitoring
             of trustee fiduciary responsibilities under the
             Bankruptcy Code and Rules.

                  When a United States trustee region becomes
             operational, it is expected that the United States
             trustee will assume, as soon as practicable, the full
             range of responsibilities contemplated by statute,
             including the auditing of case trustees' final reports
             and proposed orders of distribution. Absent unusual
              circumstances, the court in the exercise of its judicial
              discretion to close a case should be able to rely on the
              certification of the United States trustee, in the U.S.
              trustee's official capacity and as an officer of the court,
              that the case trustee has properly and fully admini-
              stered the estate. Staff of the clerk's office should not
              be used routinely to perform or duplicate United States
              trustees' responsibilities.

                     COMMITTEE ON THE BICENTENNIAL
                         OF THE CONS'I'ITUTION

             The Committee on the Bicentennial of the Constitution reported
    on its participation in the Bicentennial effort.




I             APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1988

             The Committee on the Budget reported that the fiscal year 1988
    appropriation for the judiciary was signed into law as part of the
    government-wide "continuing resolution" (Public Law 100-202). New
    budget authority for the judiciary totals $1,329,934,000, as compared to
    the fiscal year 1988 request of $1,460,678,000 and the fiscal year 1987
    appropriations of $1,259,708,000.

            In February, 1988, the Executive Committee authorized the
    Director to submit a fiscal year 1988 supplemental appropriations
    request of $38,550,000 for the "Salaries and Expenses" appropriation,
    $10,853,000 for the "Defender Services" appropriation, $1,697,000 for
    "Court Securiiy", and $3,033,000 for the "Administrative Office" account.

                         FUNDING NEW MAGISTRATES

             Under previous arrangements for funding new magistrate
    positions, months would frequently pass before the positions could be
    filled, particularly during periods of continuing resolutions when new
    appropriations were unavailable. On the recommendations of the
    Magistrates and Budget Committees, the Judicial Conference agreed to
    make funding of new magistrate positions a priority, and authorized the
    Director of the Administrative Office to proceed at the beginning of each
    fiscal year with a determination as to whether the costs of the new
positions could be absorbed and funding made available through
reprogramming without disturbing ongoing programs.

             REASSIGNMENT OF CERTAIN COSTS IN THE
            "SALARIES AND EXPENSES" APPROPRIATION

         From time to time, Congress funds court projects while simul-
taneously reducing Administrative Office requests for personnel and
funds necessary to support the same court projects. A typical example
of this funding conflict is automation, where significant Administrative
Office resources are expended for computer installation and operation in
the courts. In order to permit the Administrative Office to continue
carrying out these duties performed directly for the courts in connection
with specific and definable projects without diverting resources from
other ongoing projects, the Budget Committee. authorized the Ad-
ministrative Office to devise and implement a procedure permitting such
services to be charged to the courts' appropriation, so long as the action
complies with the law and congressional intent, and is cleared in ad-
vance with the Appropriations Committees of the Congress. The Budget
and Executive Committees of the Judicial Conference are subsequently
to be advised of any expenditures to be treated in this manner.

                    BUDGET DECENTRALIZATION

         The Judicial Conference was advised that the pilot project for
budget decentralization has been under way in the five pilot courts
(Second Circuit Court of Appeals, and Southern New York, Western
Washington, Northern California, and Arizona district courts) since the
beginning of this fiscal year. Allocations of resources to the pilot courts
are at the same levels as allocations planned for nonparticipating courts.

                COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

         The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last
report, the Committee had received 32 written inquiries and issued 27
advisory responses. The Chairman also responded to 34 telephone
inquiries that did not require reference to the Committee.
                         COMMITTEE ON COURT SECURITY

                        UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE

             The Committee on Court Security was established by the
     Judicial Conference in September, 1987, to oversee all court security
     matters. Among the most important of the new Committee's duties was
     to consider and make recommendations to the Conference on H.R.
     3551, 100th Congress, the proposed "United States Marshals Service
     Act of 1987".

              The Judicial Conference has previously supported certain
     aspects of H.R. 3551, including provisions to authorize the Attorney
     General to appoint "interim" United States marshals (March 1982
     Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 19); to permit the Attorney General to set fees for
     the service of process (March 1981 Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 20); and to
     govern contracts for security guard or "perimeter security" services for
     court facilities (see the judiciary's annual budget requests since
     February, 1982). On the other hand, responding to a proposal which
     would have repealed 28 U.S.C. 569, under which the United States
     marshals "may, in the discretion of the respective courts, be required to
     attend any session of court", the September 1986 Conference (Conf.
     Rpt., p. 58) opposed any change in 28 U.S.C. 569.

             Afler careful consideration, and noting that H.R. 3551 preserves
     intact the language of 28 U.S.C. 569, the Judicial Conference
     unanimously voted to support the bill, subject to two amendments
     developed by the Court Security Committee in coordination with the
     Director of the United States Marshals Service. First, the legislation
     should be amended specifically to include the following:


I'             ยง 566.   Powers and duties

                  (a) It is the primary role and mission of the United
               States Marshals Service to provide for the security and
               to obey, execute and enforce all orders of the United
               States District Courts, the United States Courts of
               Appeals and the Court of International Trade.

     In addition, observing that the bill would amend 28 U.S.C. 755 to permit
     bailiffs -- currently subject to a salary limit of $6 a day to be paid only for
     actual attendance on days when the court is in session or the judge or
jury is present --to be paid up to the rate of a GS-5 "from funds appropri-
ated to the Courts", the Conference recommended that the amendment
to section 755 be limited to eliminating the obsolete provision which
establishes the $6 per day bailiff payment. As a result, bailiffs' salaries
would not be fixed by statute and the judiciary's budget would be
unaffected.

                   COMMllTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                  AND PROBATION ADMINISTRATION

                 SENTENCING GUIDELINES TRAINING

         In recognition of the fact that successful implementation of
guideline sentencing depends substantially on training of the bench and
bar, the Judicial Conference endorsed the Committee's suggestion that
the district courts continue their guideline training efforts and sponsor
programs that will also educate the bar, whose knowledge of guideline
procedures is essential to effective implementation. .       ,




          TRANSFER OF JURISDICTION AND SUPERVISION
             OF PERSONS ON SUPERVISED RELEASE

         The Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-473)
provides authoriiy for courts to impose periods of supervised release
following incarceration sentences. 18 U.S.C. 3583. While a period of
supervised release serves many of the same purposes previously served
by parole supervision, the period of supervision is set by the court at
sentencing instead of by the Parole Commission, and responsibility for
setting and modifying the conditions of release, and revoking supervision
for a violation of the terms of release, rests with the sentencing court.

          Section 3605 of title 18 permits courts to transfer jurisdiction of a
supervised releasee to another court, as has been the case with
probationers for many years. Upon being advised of the economic and
administrative advantages of transfer of jurisdiction of persons under
supervised release to the district where they are being supervised, the
Judicial Conference voted to encourage courts mutually to consent to
such transfers as provided by 18 U.S.C. 3605, particularly when a
violation of the conditions of supervised release has occurred in the
district of supervision.
          COMPREHENSIVE CRIME CONTROL ACT OF 1984

        At its September 1985 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 60-61) and March 1987
(Conf. Rpt., p. 26) sessions, the Judicial Conference endorsed amend-
ments to the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 (Title 1I of the Comprehen-
sive Crime Control Act of 1984, Public Law 98-473). While some of
these proposals have been enacted in the Criminal Fines Improvement
Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-185) and the Sentencing Act of 1987
(Public Law 100-182), others have not.

         On the Committee's recommendation, the Conference re-
endorsed an amendment to 18 U.S.C. 3563(a) to provide for exceptions
to the requirement that, if probation is imposed for a felony, the sentence
must include a fine, restitution, community service, or any combination of
the three. In the Conference's view, there are limited cases in which this
inflexible requirement would be counterproductive, and sentencing
courts should have the authority to suspend the three mandatory
conditions in circumstances where the defendant cannot comply with
any of them.

        In addition, the Conference agreed to recommend an amend-
ment to title 18 to provide for monies to be made available from the
Treasury to refund bail which had been erroneously forfeited and
deposited in the Treasury. Section 3150(a) of title 18, which had
previously provided this authoriiy, was inadvertently omitted with the
passage of Public Law 98-473.

               COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES

                  APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

        The Committee on Defender Services submitted to the Confer-
ence a report on appointments and payments under the Criminal Justice
Act (CJA) during the fiscal year 1987. The report indicated that of the
$87,858,000 appropriated for the implementation of the CJA in the fiscal
year 1987, $78,358,000 will be required to. meet projected obligations,
leaving a balance of $9,500,000 available for use in the fiscal year 1988.

         During the fiscal year 1987, approximately 62,327 persons were
represented under the CJA, compared to 59,324 persons during the
fiscal year 1986, an increase of 5.1 percent. Of the 62,327 persons
represented, 33,400, or 53.6 percent, were represented by federal public
    and community defender organizations, compared to 53.1 percent in the
    fiscal year 1986 and 52.4 percent in the fiscal year 1985.

            The Conference authorized the Director of the Administrative
    Office to transmit the report to all chief judges, to all federal defender
    organizations, and to others who may request copies.

            BUDGET REQUESTS - FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS

             The Conference approved the supplemental budget request for
    the fiscal years 1988 and 1989 in the amounts of $30,128 and $40,655,
    respectively, for the Federal Public Defender Organization for the District
    of Colorado.

              ALTERNATIVE HOURLY COMPENSATION RATES

              Subsection (d)(l) of the Criminal Justice Act, as amended (18
    U.S.C. 3006A(d)(l)), establishes hourly maximum rates of attorney
    compensation of $60 per hour for time expended in court, and $40 per
    hour for time reasonably expended out of court. The subsection also
    authorizes the Judicial Conference to establish an alternative hourly
    compensation rate, not to exceed $75 per hour, if the Conference
    determines that a higher rate is justified for a circuit or for particular
    districts within a circuit.

             Effective with services performed on or after October 1, 1987,
    and subject to the availability of funds, the September 1987 Judicial
    Conference (Conf . Rpt., pp. 94-95) approved a temporary special
    alternative maximum rate of $75 per hour, for both in- and out-of-court
    time, for representation in death penalty habeas corpus cases in the
    Northern, Central, and Eastern Districts of California; effective
    November 6, 1987, the Executive Committee extended the temporary
    alternative rate to the Southern District of California. See also
    "Alternative Hourly Compensation Rates in Death Penalty Habeas
    Corpus Cases", supra p. 7.
I            On the recommendation of the Defender Services Committee,
I   and subject to the availability of funds, the Judicial Conference estab-
I   lished a special alternative rate of $75, for both in- and out-of-court time,
for representation in federal habeas corpus death penalty cases only, at
all court locations in the following districts:

          Arizona
          California (Northern, Eastern, Central, and Southern)
          Idaho
          Kentucky (Eastern and Western)
          Montana
          Nevada
          Ohio (Southern)
          Oregon
          Pennsylvania (Western)
          Tennessee (Eastern, Middle, and Western)
          Washington (Eastern and Western)


         In addition, subject to the availability of funds, the Judicial
Conference established general alternative rates for both in- and
out-of-court time in the amounts indicated for the following districts and
court locations:

           District                        Arnount/Location

           Alaska                         $75
           Arizona                        $70 [Phoenix and Tucson] .
           California, Central            $75
           California, Eastern            $75 [Sacramento and Fresno]
           California, Northern           $75
           California, Southern           $75
           District of Columbia           $75
           Hawaii                         $70
           Michigan, Eastern              $75 [Detroit]
           Nevada                         $60 [Las Vegas and Reno]
           New Jersey                     $75
           New Mexico                     $75 [Las Cruces]
           New York, Eastern              $75
           New York, Southern             $75
           Oregon                         $60 [Portland]
           Washington, Western            $75 [Seattle]
        Since the projected cost of implementing the recommended
special and general alternative rates is $9,765,000 in the fiscal year
1988, and $13,265,000 in the fiscal year 1989, the Defender Services
Committee recommended prioriiies for implementation of the alternative
rates and funding of death penalty resource center/community defender
organizations (see "Death Penalty Resources Centers", below), which
the Conference approved.

         The Conference also amended the guideline on establishment of
alternative hourly rates (paragraph 2.22(A)(2) of the Guidelines for the
Administration of the Criminal Justice Act) to incorporate additional
criteria, specifically provide for the establishment of special death
penalty alternative rates, and exempt special death penalty rate applica-
tions from the requirement of conducting a survey.

               DEATHPENALTYRESOURCECENTERS

        In order to address the adequacy of resources for providing
representation in death penalty habeas corpus cases, a number of
federal circuits and districts are taking steps to create cooperative
resource center programs to provide assistance, guidance, information,
and other services to eligible individuals and appointed attorneys
involved in death penalty litigation at both the federal and state stages of
the proceedings. The Defender Services Committee anticipates that
state and other non-federal sources will ultimately provide about hatf the
funding for these organizations, with the remainder to be furnished
through grants under the Criminal Justice Act.

          To date, the district courts of four states have agreed to desig-
nate resource centers as community defender organizations through the
amendment of their district court plans to implement the CJA. These
four proposed resource center/community defender organizations have
submitted, and the Conference approved, the following grant requests
for the fiscal years 1988 and 1989. The requests were approved subject
to the availability of funds, and contingent upon each proposed organiza-
tion obtaining the state and other non-federal funds which it had indi-
cated were necessary to finance the state component of its proposed
activities, and also contingent upon final approval of all necessary CJA
plan amendments.
                       Criminal Justice Act Grants



Georgia Appellate Practice
  and Educational Resource
  Center, Inc. [GA-N, M, & S]               $104,444       $267,275

Mississippi Capital Defense
  Resource Center [MS-N & S]                $82,175       $195,950

North Carolina Death Penalty
  Resource Center [NC-E, M, & W]            $33,915        $87,760

Capital Representation
  Resource Center of Tennessee
  [TN-E, M, & W]                            $86,307       $167,634

        TOTAL                              $306,841       $718,619

         A modified version of the "Grant and Conditions" which "tradi-
tional" community defender organizations are required to execute prior to
receipt of grant funds was approved for use in conjunction with grants to
death penalty resource center/community defender organizations and
will be included as Appendix D of the Guidelines. Minor amendments to
clauses 8 and 14 of the "Grant and Conditions" used by the traditional
community defenders were approved as well.

                  ADVICE OF COUNSEL PRIOR TO
                  PRETRIAL SERVICES INTERVIEW

        The federal defenders have requested that the Judicial Confer-
ence amend the Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice
Act to provide that, prior to being interviewed by a pretrial services or
-
probation officer, a financially eligible defendant subject to proceedings
under 18 U.S.C. 3142 et seq., should be afforded the opportunity to
consult with counsel.

         The Committee on Defender Services reported that, particularly
with the advent of guideline sentencing, it shares the defenders' views
that eligible defendants should be afforded an opportunity to confer with
counsel prior to the pretrial services interview. However, the Committee
believes that further consideration is warranted before an amendment to
the Guidelines can be proposed, and it will seek the views of the Judicial
Conference Committees on Criminal Law and Probation Administration
and on the Administration of the Magistrates System on this matter. In
the interim, the Committee recommended, and the Conference ap-
proved, the following statement for dissemination to the courts:

         The Judicial Conference recognizes the importance of
         the advice of counsel for persons subject to proceedings
         under 18 U.S.C. 3142 et seq., prior to their being
         interviewed by a pretrial services or probation officer.
         Accordingly, the conference encourages districts to take
         the steps necessary to permit the furnishing of ap-
         pointed counsel at this stage of the proceedings to
         financially eligible defendants, having due regard for the
         importance of affording the pretrial services officer
         adequate time to interview the defendant and verify
         information prior to the bail hearing.

                              GUIDELINES

        The Conference approved the following amendments to the
Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal ~usticeAct:

    1.    Numerous technical amendments to paragraphs 2.01,
          2.12, and 2.22 to conform to the Sentencing Reform
          Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-473), the Criminal Fine
          Improvements Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-185), and
          the Sentencing Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-182).

    2.    An amendment to paragraph 3.12 (C) to authorize the
          court to grant exceptions to the requirement for
          commercial duplication of transcripts in multi-defendant
          CJA cases, with respect to accelerated transcript
          services.

    3.    Amendments to paragraphs 2.27 (A) and 3.12 (A)
          concerning the appropriate forms for use in connection
          with payment for court authorized transcripts in CJA
          cases.

   4.     An amendment to paragraph 2.26 to eliminate the "1
          hour travel time" rule.
                             RESOLUTION
                                                                           I
         In acknowledgement of his substantial contributions to the work
of the Judicial Conference, the Conference adopted the following
resolution honoring Judge Thomas J. MacBride:
                                                                           i
            On November 20, 1987, the Honorable William H.
      Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States, with sincere
      regret, acceded to Judge Thomas J. MacBride's request
      that he be relieved as Chairman of the United States
      Judicial Conference Committee to Implement the Criminal
      Justice Act.

           The Chief Justice and the Judicial Conference ac-
      knowledge with deep appreciation Judge MacBride's long
      years and varied and valuable contributions in positions of
      leadership in the federal judiciary.

         Over the course of his judicial tenure, Judge MacBride
      served as:

         o Chief Judge of the Eastern District of California from
           1967 to 1979.

         o A member of the United States Judicial Conference
           Committee on the Administration of the Probation
           System from 1967 to 1968.

         o A member of the United States Judicial Conference
           from 1975 to 1978.

         o A member of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
           Court from 1979-1980.

         o A member of the United States Judicial Conference
           Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act
           from 1969-1987.

        o Chairman of the United Slates Judicial Conference
          Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act
          from 1979-1987.
     I             In his capacity as a member and as Chairman of the
             Committee to Implement the Criminal Justice Act, Judge
             MacBride led the Federal Defender program through a
             period of remarkable but required growth necessitated by an
             increase in criminal appointments of counsel from ap-
             proximately 30,000 in 1969 to more than 60,000 in 1987.
     1
     I       During the period of his service on the CJA Committee the
     I
             first Federal Defender organizations were created and their
     I
     I
             numbers grew to 66 headquarters and branch offices,
             providing representation in 47 federal judicial districts and 11
             federal circuits. Even in times of particular fiscal austerity,
             Judge MacBride succeeded in securing the funds needed to
             ensure effective assistance of counsel and to build and
             maintain the exemplary Federal Defender program, which
     I       has enjoyed a reputation for providing a consistently
     1       outstanding level of representation and professional service
             to those charged with federal crimes and unable to afford
             counsel. His efforts also contributed to the funding and
             support of private panel attorneys, experts and others
             providing representational services under the Criminal
             Justice Act in each of the 94 federal judicial districts and 12
             courts of appeals.

                 In addition, Judge MacBride devoted enormous energies,
             over a nine-year period, to the task of bringing about needed
             amendments to the Criminal Justice Act in the areas of
             attorney compensation and training.

                 Judge MacBride's commitment, enthusiasm, leadership,
             boundless energy, personal sacriiice and devotion to the
             administration of the federal judiciary, to the Federal
             Defender and assigned counsel program and to the cause of
             equal access to justice have earned and received the
             respect and admiration of all with whom he has served.

                  COMMllTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION


I
iI
                      DIVERSITY OF CITIZENSHIP JURISDICTION

I                 Title IV of H.R. 3152, 100th Congress, the proposed "Court
         Reform and Access to Justice Act of 1987", contains two important
         provisions of interest to the judiciary: (1) the creation of multi-party,
I
         multi-forumjurisdiction; and (2) restrictions on diversity jurisdiction.
         A. Although its provisions are complex, H.R. 3152 would permit
the consolidation in federal district court of civil actions "arising out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of related transactions or
occurrences", in two general circumstances. Jurisdictional criteria for
consolidation would be met where any party is a citizen of one state and
any adverse party is a citizen of another state (minimal diversity), and if
(1) a substantial part of the acts giving rise to the action occurred in two
or more different states; or (2) any defendant resides in one state and (a)
any other defendant resides in a different state, or (b) a substantial part
of the acts giving rise to the action occurred in any other state. In order
further to ensure that jurisdiction applies only to cases falling within the
large mass-injury situation, this jurisdiction could be invoked only in an
action for injury to person or property, and only then in three basic
situations: (1) where 25 persons are alleged to have incurred damages
of at least $50,000 per person; (2) where five persons are alleged to
have incurred damages of at least $10,000 per person and the plaintiff
cannot join all proper defendants to the claim in a state court, but can do
so under this section; or (3) where five persons are alleged to have
incurred damages of at least $10,000 per person, and any party to a civil
action is subsequently sued in another court on a claim arising out of the
same transaction.

          The Conference approved in principle creation of federal
jurisdiction that would rely on minimal diversity to consolidate multiple
litigation in state and federal courts of cases involving personal injury or
property damage and arising out of a single event, provided it is coupled
with provisions that would otherwise narrow diversity jurisdiction.
Although the Conference has repeatedly called for the abolition of
diversity jurisdiction in its present form (see paragraph B, below), H.R.
3152, by contrast, would redirect diversity jurisdiction to serve a purpose
that state courts are not able to serve, i.e., to facilitate the consolidation
of scattered actions arising out of the same occurrence and thereby to
promote more expeditious and economical disposition of such litigation.

          B. At its September 1987 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 72), and
without departing from prior recommendations to adopt more extensive
restrictions on diversity of citizenship jurisdiction or to abolish it al-
together, the Judicial Conference agreed to recommend that 28 U.S.C.
1332 be amended to increase the amount in controversy required to
establish diversity.jurisdiction from a sum that exceeds $1 0,000 to a sum
that exceeds $50,000. Observing that H.R. 3152 includes language to
increase the jurisdictional amount to $50,000, the Conference agreed to
    support that provision. The Conference also supported a recommenda-
    tion of the Department of Justice to amend 28 U.S.C. 1332(c) to provide
I   that a corporation shall be deemed to be a citizen of any state in which it
I   is licensed or registered to do business. This objective standard would
1
    substantially reduce the extent of diversity litigation involving
    corporations.

                          APPEALS OF ClVlL ACTIONS

r
            Title VII of H.R. 3152, 100th Congress, would substantially
I   revise the existing statutory provisions governing civil and criminal
    appeals. Except to reaffirm its prior approval of elimination of the
I   Enelow-Ettelson doctrine (September 1987 Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 70),
    the Conference voted to oppose a major revision at this time of the
    provisions of title 28 governing appeals. The subject matter of Title VII
    of H.R. 3152 was referred for further study to the Advisory Committee on
    Appellate Rules and the Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction.

                                HABEAS CORPUS

            The Conference, by -a split vote, declined to approve a recom-
    mendation that, except for certificate of probable cause provisions
    previously disapproved in March, 1986 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 29-30), it support
    H.R. 1333, 100th Congress, the proposed "Habeas Corpus Reform Act
    of 1987".

                                   ClVlL RICO

            In September, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 75-76), the Judicial Confer-
    ence reaffirmed an earlier recommendation that Congress promptly take
    steps to narrow significantly the scope of 18 U.S.C. 1964(c), which
    provides for civil actions under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
    Organizations Act (RICO).

             While H.R. 2983, 100th Congress, would not effect a significant
    narrowing of the scope of civil RICO, some positive impact on the federal
    civil RICO caseload could be expected from enactment of the legislation.
    Consequently, the Conference voted to support H.R. 2983, insofar as it
    would (a) enact a requirement that a defendant be convicted of
    "predicate acts" as a prerequisite to civil liability in certain cases under
    the Act; (b) eliminate treble damages and punitive damages in certain
    cases; and (c) provide for exclusive federal jurisdiction of civil damages
actions under the Act (an appropriate limitation, since many of the
predicate acts involve violation of federal criminal statutes exclusively
enforced by federal courts).

                            PRODUCT LIABII-ITY

        The Conference returned to the Committee on Federal-State
Jurisdiction for further consideration a recommendation on H.R. 1115,
100th Congress, dealing with product liability issues.

                     ASBESTOS INFORMATION ACT

         H.R. 2693, 100th Congress, would require a building owner who
files a civil action relating to asbestos materials used in construction to
attach to the complaint, to the extent not inconsistent with state law,
regulations, or rule of court, detailed information concerning the nature
and installation of the materials. Although observing that the bill may be
considered by the Advisory Committee on Civil Rules for a determination
of its impact on federal pleading, the committee on Federal-State
Jurisdiction recommended that the Judicial Conference support an
amendment to the legislation to remove an ambiguity by providing that
its pleading provisions will apply to a state court unless that state has by
statute, regulation, rule, or order of court expressly provided otherwise.
The Conference agreed to support the amendment.

             BERNE CONVENTION IMPLEMENTATIONACT

         S. 1301, H.R. 1623, and H.R. 2962, 100th Congress, are
designed to effect adherence by the United States to the Berne Conven-
tion for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works. The bills would
amend the copyright laws in title 17 of the United States Code by
omitting the requirement that notice of copyright be fixed to published
works and, in the case of S. 1301, also omitting the requirement that a
copyrighted work be registered before an action for infringement may be
brought.

         While taking no position on these bills, the Conference did agree
to advise the Congress that, to the extent the bills delete the requirement
of registration of a copyright as a prerequisite to litigation, there is likely
to be increased difficulty in trying copyright cases.
                      STATE JUSTICE INSTITUTE

        The Judicial Conference endorsed the reauthorization and
funding of the State Justice Institute. See also March 1987 Session,
Conf. Rpt., p. 19.

           COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

          The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during
the period August 15, 1987, through February 1, 1988, the Committee
had recommended 64 intercircuit assignments to be undertaken by 52
judges. Of this number, one was a retired associate justice of the United
States Supreme Court, 17 were senior circuit judges, 11 were active
circuit judges, 17 were senior district judges, four were active district
judges, one was a senior judge of the Court of International Trade, and
one was an active judge of the Court of International Trade.

       Of the 64 assignments approved, 35 judges undertook 44
assignments to the courts of appeals, and 18 judges undertook 20
assignments to the district courts.

               COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

         The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported on its activities
in anticipation later this year of the impaneling of the Commission on
Executive, Legislative and Judicial Salaries, the Commission's report to
the President and, in early. 1989, President Reagan's transmittal to
Congress of his pay recommendations. The work of the Judicial Confer-
ence in support of judicial salary increases during this cycle is particu-
larly important because, under existing law, this opportunity will mark the
last occasion for meaningful salary reform (other than on an annual
cost-of-living basis) until 1993. The Committee intends to submit to the
1988 Salary Commission documentation of the judiciary's compensation
needs, focusing upon the significant erosion in purchasing power of
judicial salaries since the "base line" year of 1969, when the mechanism
of the Federal Salary Act of 1967, 2 U.S.C. 351 et seq., first became
operational.

                  COMMITTEE ON JLlDlClAL ETHICS

        The Committee on Judicial Ethics reported that it has completed
review of annual financial reports submitted for calendar year 1986 and
continues to process responses to inquiry letters, initial, and termination
                                    25


                                                         -   --. . -
                                                               -       .
reports. The Committee approved the automation of the processing of
financial disclosure reports. The resultant system will enable more
timely, accurate, and responsive assessments of filings and closing of
cases.

             COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL IMPROVEMENTS

                              AUTOMATION

        The Committee on Judicial Improvements reported on the status
of automation activities in the courts.

         The appellate information management system (NewAIMS) is
operational in three circuits, and implementation in five additional circuits
is under way. The bankruptcy court automation project (BANCAP) and
the full civil docketing system (CIVIL) have been developed by the
Federal Judicial Center, pilot tested, and transferred to the Administra-
tive Office for implementation. The first version of the criminal full
docketing system (CRIMINAL), which is being developed by the Ad-
ministrative Office, was released to the pilot courts in January, 1988.

         In order to cope with the training demands of implementing
these full docketing systems as soon as possible, a BANCAP training
and support center was approved in the Western District of Texas last
year. The Committee reported that, in light of the transfer of CIVIL from
the Judicial Center to the Administrative Office for implementation, and
the anticipated completion of CRIMINAL by the end of the fiscal year, the
Committee had approved the establishment of a similar CIVIL/CRIMINAL
training center in the District of Arizona.

         The judiciary hopes to make a major office automation procure-
ment award late this fiscal year or early in the fiscal year 1989. Conse-
quently, the judiciary is seeking $45,000,000 for office automation in the
fiscal year 1989. The Committee will establish priorities for the installa-
tion of office automation equipment at its next meeting in June, 1988.

              COMPUTER-ASSISTEDLEGAL RESEARCH

        Among the most frequent of requests received by the Ad-
ministrative Office is one for access to computer-assisted legal research
(CALR) in judges' chambers. While it has long been contemplated that
CALR would become available in chambers under the off ice automation
I




    program (see above, "Automation"), the Conference was advised that a
    good number of chambers are presently equipped with hardware, either
    government-provided or privately owned, which wlhout upgrading is
    capable of accessing CALR through purchase of modems and installa-
    tion of telephone lines. Under favorable contract terms with the Mead
     Data Central Corporation, LEXlS can therefore be immediately installed
    in appropriately equipped chambers at relatively minor expense without
    waiting for the office automation plan to commence. (Since the
    judiciary's contract with the West Publishing Company does not include
    these favorable terms, WESTLAW cannot be made available in cham-
    bers at this time.)

            On the recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Confer-
    ence approved guidelines for the expansion of CALR into chambers.
    Under the guidelines, the chambers of judicial officers (circuit and district
    judges, including senior judges, bankruptcy judges, and full-time United
    States magistrates) would be eligible to receive LEXlS if the existing
    hardware can access it without upgrade, provided that the judicial officer
    can identify $1,000 of lawbook continuationlsubscription material to be
    cancelled; an additional $500 of continuationlsubscriptionmaterial would
    need to be cancelled for each additional personal computer in chambers
    to be accessed. Certain exemptions are built into the guidelines to
    ensure that hard copies remain available at all locations.

                    VIDEOTAPING COURT PROCEEDINGS

              The Judicial Conference authorized the videotaping of the trial in
    In re Washington Public Power Supply System Securities Litigation, MDL
    551 (all cases), provided that the videotape does not constitute the
    official court record and there is no public access to the tapes.

            TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

            In order to allow district judges to be reimbursed for attending
    the investiture ceremonies of bankruptcy judges and United States
    magistrates in their districts, and to reimburse bankruptcy judges and
    magistrates for attending investiture ceremonies for district judges,
    bankruptcy judges, and magistrates, the Judicial Conference amended
    subparagraph 0.1.e.(2) of the travel regulations for justices and judges
    to read as follows:



                                         27
          (2) District Judge, Bankruptcy Judge, or Magistrate.
             Only a circuit justice, the chief judge of the Court of
             Appeals (and such circuit judges as designated by
             the chief judge), district judges of the same district
             court, and bankruptcy judges or magistrates of the
             same district court (with the approval of the chief
             district judge) may receive reimbursement of travel
             expenses to attend the investiture of a , newly-
             appointed district judge, bankruptcy judge, or
             magistrate.


         The Conference also approved the following new paragraph
D.1.c. to the travel regulations in order to permit judicial officers to use
purchase orders to procure lodging, or lodging and meals:

         c. Payment of Lodging, or Lodging and Meals, by
            Purchase Order. Judges who are required to attend
            Judicial Conference Committee meetings or the
            Circuit Judicial Conferences and must obtain more
            costly lodging than would otherwise have been
            obtained may have their lodging procured directly by
            the use of a purchase order. Such lodging procured
            in this manner shall be done by purchase order
            issued by the Clerk of Court. When such direct
            billing procedures are used, a per diem allowance of
            $33 may be claimed, or the traveler may itemize
            meals and other allowable subsistence expenses up
            to a daily maximum of $50. This method of procure-
            ment may also be used to procure meals when
            billings for attendees at the meeting or conference
            are based on the American Plan. In this instance,
            only a minimal daily subsistence allowance should
            be authorized, generally not in excess of $5.

                    Nothing in this subparagraph shall authorize
            purchase orders andlor reimbursement exceeding
            the maximum level of reimbursement authorized by
            subparagraphs 1 .a. and 1.b. of this paragraph,
            except that for the purposes of this subparagraph,
            United States bankruptcy judges and magistrates
            may elect the alternative expense allowance level
            established in subparagraph 1.a.3.
                                                                                   i
Use of a purchase order under the new regulation (1) would entitle
                                                                                   I
subordinate judicial officers to receive lodging and meals having an               I


actual expense of subsistence not to exceed 150 percent of the estab-
lished per diem rate for the location or up to $150 per day, whichever is      I


higher (an option Article Ill judges currently enjoy); and (2) would, in
some locations, allow travelers to avoid the payment of costly local
lodging taxes.
                   UNITED STATES CLAIMS COURT

         The United States Claims Court was created in 1982 as an
Article I court in the judicial branch. Last year, the Chief Judge of the
Claims Court proposed that the Court be removed from the Article Ill
system and placed "under its own administration, like other Article I
courts". At its September 1987 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 68), the Judicial
Conference determined not to object to the creation of an Article I Claims
Court outside of the judicial branch.

           S. 1608, 100th Congress, the "United States Claims Court
 Improvement Act of 1987, would amend title 28 "as it pertains to the
structure of the United States Claims Court." Atthough the Conference
was not unsympathetic to the Claims Court's desire to be independent of
the Judicial Conference and the Administrative Office for administrative
purposes, the Conference was of the view that further fact-finding was
necessary to determine whether S. 1608 could achieve this goal without
adversely affecting the availability of resources for the remainder of the
judiciary. The Conference accordingly voted to refer the bill to the
Executive Committee, for a determination of the appropriate commit-
t e e ( ~with
         ) jurisdiction to conduct this further fact-finding.

                   INCREASES IN FEE SCHEDULES

        Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1930(b), the Judicial Conference
amended the Schedule of Additional Fees for the United States
Bankruptcy Courts to establish a $500 fee for filing a petition ancillary to
a foreign proceeding under 11 U.S.C. 304. The Conference also
approved an amendment to the preamble to the bankruptcy fee schedule
to expand the exemption from payment for services rendered "on behalf
of the United States" to include services rendered "to bankruptcy
administrators appointed under Public Law 99-554, section 302(d)(3)(1)."
               AMENDMENTS TO THE JURY SELECTION
                      AND SERVICE ACT

        In September, 1985 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 83-84), and in September,
1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. 96), the Judicial Conference recommended that
Congress approve several technical amendments to the Jury Selection
and Service Act, 28 U.S.C. 1861 et seq. At this session, the Conference
agreed to support an additional amendment to the Act to eliminate the
automatic excuses from service now granted to members of fire and
police departments and to public officials.

               JUROR QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAIRE

         In response to the suggestion of a chief district judge that the
current version of the juror qualification questionnaire does not enable
information regarding Hispanic ethnicity to be gathered satisfactorily, the
Judicial Conference revised the questionnaire to inquire as follows:

              To assist in ensuring that all people are represented
          on juries, please indicate which of the following applies
          to you. Nothing disclosed will affect your selection for
          jury service.

            - Black
            -White
            - American Indian
            -Asian
            -Other (specify)
            Are you Hispanic?   - Yes       No

      MACHINE READABLE QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAIRE

          In March, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. 39), the Judicial Conference
authorized the District of New Mexico to use a machine readable form of
the juror qualification questionnaire previously approved by the Confer-
ence under 28 U.S.C. 1869(h). In September, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. 96),
the Conference authorized the expanded use of the questionnaire in the
Middle District of Florida, the Western District of Texas, and such other
districts as the Committee on Judicial Improvements designates. The
Committee advised the Conference that it had approved the participation
in the optical scanner experiment of the Central District of California, the
                                                                                     I
                                                                                     I
Eastern and Southern Districts of New York, and the Northern District of                           .   -
West Virginia.                                                                         ,I .I!,
                                                                                     i <
                                                                                     , '.
         The Judicial Conference agreed to grant discretion to the courts
participating in the experimental test of optical scanning equipment to
                                                                                     1
use the equipment officially to process juror qualification questionnaires.

                       PLACES OF HOLDING COURT                                           '   ._.



         Under 28 U.S.C. 462, the Director of the Administrative Off ice,
with the approval of the appropriate circuit judicial council, may provide
chambers for circuit judges only at statutorily designated places of
                                                                                      I
holding district court or elsewhere in federal facilities. When a circuit
judge resides and maintains his or her official station in a community with
no federal facilities or with federal facilities filled to capacity, the judiciary
must go to Congress to seek affirmative legislation to havedhat commu-
nity designated as a place of holding district court in order that private
leased space may be acquired for circuit judge chambers.

         Since the existing statutory scheme has the potential of defeat-
ing both congressional and Judicial Conference policy against the
                                                                                     ;g
proliferation of places of holding court, the Judicial Conference voted to           ,-
                                                                                     I.?


recommend that 28 U.S.C. 462(c) be amended to permit the Director of
the Administrative Office to furnish chambers for circuit judges at any
location, with the approval of the judicial council of the circuit.

                COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES

                          JUDGESHIP VACANCIES

         Judgeship vacancies place significant burdens on the courts by
increasing the workloads of those judges available for duty and diminish-
ing the courts' ability to discharge their responsibilities. Accordingly, the
Judicial Conference:

    1.    Noted the adverse effect on the courts and litigants
          attributable to vacancies in Article Ill judgeship posi-
          tions and considers all such vacancies "judicial
          emergencies".

    2.    Urged all judges nearing retirement to notify the
          President and the Administrative Office as far in

                                       31
                                                                                    4s
               advance as possible of a change in status -- if pos-
               sible, six to twelve months before the contemplated
               date of change in status.

         3.    Agreed that greater effort should be made to publicize
               the deleterious effect such vacancies have on the
               administration of justice.


I'                         QUALITY STEP INCREASES

             The Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) authorizes an increase in a step
     within a pay grade as a means of recognizing exceptional service by an
     employee. The JSP permits an employee to receive such a "quality step
     increase", or QSI, no more than once every three years.

               Noting that the executive branch, which has a similar provision in
     its personnel regulations, allows an employee to be awarded a QSI not
     more than once a year, the Conference amended the JSP to provide that
     "No more than one quality step increase may be granted to an employee
     within a period of 52 consecutive calendar weeks." The Conference
     premised its approval on full compliance with existing JSP requirements
     that limit such increases to exceptional performance of all major duties in
     a sustained manner that substantially exceeds the normal requirements
     for the position, and gives promise of continuing.

              The Conference recognized that there may be a natural ten-
     dency routinely to grant quality step increases, particularly in small staff
     situations where the judge or supervisor is in constant contact with staff.
     That practice is to be avoided, for if annual QSls are awarded automati-
     cally, their function as rewards for exceptional performance will be lost,
     and the judge or supervisor will be deprived of this valuable manage-
     ment tool for encouraging exceptional performance.

                   RETENTION OF STAFF UPON THE DEATH
                       OR INCAPACITY OF A JUDGE

               Current policy authorizes the automatic retention of chambers
     staff of a deceased or incapacitated judge for 30 days, with an extension
     for an additional 60 days upon request by the court. Since the need for
     continued staff in these circumstances depends on a number of factors
     characteristic of the court, eg., geographical distribution of court
     facilities, procedures used in case allocations when a judgeship is
I

    vacant, etc., the Conference voted to allow for the extension of staff, in
    90- to 120-day increments beyond the current 90-day maximum, upon
    certification by the affected court to the Director of the Administrative
    Office that such additional staff resources are necessary.

                       ADDITIONAL COURT REPORTERS

            The Judicial Conference approved an additional court reporter
    position in the Eastem District of Virginia.

              CLASSIFICATION OF SUPPORTING PERSONNEL

             On the recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Confer-
    ence approved the reclassification of deputy circuit librarians from
    JSP-12 to JSP-13, and the reclassification of secretaries to United
    States magistrates from JSP-10 to JSP-11. The Conference declined to
    increase the salaries of principal secretaries to metropolitan district court
    chief judges.

            With regard to the procedures for classifying principal
    secretaries to circuit chief judges at the JSP-12 level (see September
    1987 Session, Conf. Rpt., p. 65), the Conference agreed that:

        1.    Upon relinquishment of the office of a circuit chief
              judge, the principal secretary to that former circuit chief
              judge who has been increased in grade to a JSP-12
              due to the assignment of exceptional circuit-wide
              duties, shall be reduced to the grade level of a circuit
              judge's secretary, at that step of the grade that would
              otherwise have been achieved absent the promotion to
              JSP-12.

        2.    The criterion to be used to assure adequate experi-
              ence when a circuit chief judge's secretary is to be
              promoted to the grade of JSP-12 is three years as
              secretary to a circuit judge.

                     COURT INTERPRETERS ACT

           At its September 1982 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 73), the Judicial
    Conference recommended amendments to the Court Interpreters Act, 28
    U.S.C. 1827. S. 1867, 100th Congress, includes an additional series of
    amendments to the Act, upon which the Conference took the following

                                         33
    1.    Opposed a requirement that eight unspecified lan-
          guages be certified for interpreter services in the
          courts. Discretion on the part of the judiciary, both as
          to which languages should be so certified, and how
          many, is desirable.

    2.    Opposed a proposal to require, in every instance,
          electronic sound recording of interpretations in court
          proceedings. The decision to record interpretations
          should be left to the discretion of the presiding judicial
          officer.

    3.   Supported a proposal that prepayment for interpreting
                                                                                 t
         services may be made at the court's discretion, with
         the court assigning costs to, and collecting costs from,
         the parties.

    4.   Supported a proposal to provide a schedule of uniform
         fees for interpreting services.
                                                                                f
                      BOARD OF CERTIFICATION
                                                                               iy
         The Judicial Conference agreed to propose legislation to              id
                                                                               .,,.
eliminate the Board of Certification, 28 U.S.C. 332, and the certification     $
function. The standards for the position of circuit executive contained in    $;
section 332(f), &, experience in administrative and executive positions,       ::$
                                                                               ,.:>
familiarity with court procedures, and special training, would be retained.   $;i3
                                                                                :
                                                                              7s

           COMMITTEE ON 'THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
               FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

                COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENTS FOR
                    PART-TIME MAGISTRATES

         Heretofore, the cost-of-living adjustments which have been
administratively applied automatically to full-time magistrates have not
applied automatically to part-time magistrates; rather, a specific resolu-
tion of the Conference has been necessary to approve application of
cost-of-living increases to the salaries of part-time magistrates. Almost
invariably, those same adjustments, in percentage terms, have been
forthcoming, through separate Conference action. Finding no reason for
excluding part-time magistrates from the cost-of-living adjustment
granted automatically to full-time magistrates (and other government
employees), the Conference agreed that part-time magistrates, including
those in combination positions who perform part-time magistrate duties
for additional compensation, shall henceforth be granted the same
cost-of-living adjustments (in percentage terms) as are extended to
full-time magistrates, effective at the same time as the adjustments for
full-time magistrates. The adjustments in the salaries of part2time
magistrates will be implemented by the Director of the Administrative
Office unless otherwise directed by the Judicial Conference.

                   MAGISTRATES' SEAL OF OFFICE

         Under 28 U.S.C. 638(c), the Director of the Administrative Office
"shall furnish to each United States magistrate . . . an official impression
seal in a form prescribed by the [Judicial] conference." The Conference
approved the Committee's recommendation that the seal of the district
court be prescribed as the seal for magistrates' use.

               CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSI-TIONS

         After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district
courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Conference approved
the following changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time and
part-time magistrate positions. Unless otherwise indicated, these
changes are to be effective when appropriated funds are available.

                             FIRST CIRCUIT

Massachusetts:

    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Cape Cod National
    Seashore for an additional four-year term but decreased the salary
    of the position from $5,335to $4,269 per annum.

Maine:

    Converted the part-time magistrate position at Bangor to a full-time
    position.




                                     35
                           THIRD ClRCLllT

New Jersey:

   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Atlantic City for an
   additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of $2,134
   per annum.

Pennsylvania, Eastern:

   Increasedthe salary of the part-time magistrate position at Allentown
   from $4,269 to $7,588 per annum.

                           FOURTH CIRCUIT

West Virginia, Southern:

   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Beckley1 Bluefield for
   an additional four-year term at the' currently authorized salary of
   $36,250 per annum.

                           SIXTH CIRCUIT

Tennessee, Western:

   Authorized a part-time magistrate position at Jackson at a salary of
   $21,225 per annum.

                           EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Iowa, Southern:

   Continued the part-time magistrate positions at Des Moines and
   Burlington for additional four-year terms at the currently authorized
   salaries of $36,250 and $4,269 per annum, respectively.

South Dakota:

   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Rapid City for an
   additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
   $36,250 per annum.
                             NINTH CIRCUIT

Alaska:

    1.     Authorized a part-time magistrate position at Anchorage at a
           salary of $36,250 per annum;

    2.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Juneau for an
           additional four-year term and increased the salary of the
           position from $3,201 to $9,722 per annum;

    3.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Ketchikan for an
           additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
           $2,134 per annum; and

    4.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Kodiak for an
           additional four-year term and increased the salary of the
           position from $2,134 to $3,201 per annum.

Arizona:

    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Grand
    Canyon National Park from $24,070 to $27,390 per annum.

California, Central:

    1.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Santa Barbara
           for an additional four-year term but decreased the salary from
           $9,722 to $7,588 per annum;

    2.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Oxnard (or
           Ventura) for an additional four-year term at the currently
           authorized salary of $9,722 per annum; and

    3.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Barstow (or
           Victorville) for an additional four-year term and increased the
           salary from $4,269 to $7,588 per annum.



    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Coeur
    d'Alene from $9,722 to $16,127 per annum.

                                    37
Oregon:

    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
    Pendleton from $3,201 to $4,269 per annum.

                            TENTH CIRCUIT

New Mexico:

    1.    Authorized a third full-time magistrate position to serve the
          district at Albuquerque;

    2.    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Clovis (or
          Portales or Roswell) for an additional four-year term at the
          currently authorized salary of $5,335 per annum; and

    3.    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Sante Fe for an
          additional four-year term and increased the salary from $2,134
          to $4,269 per annum.

Oklahoma, Eastern:

    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Muskogee for an
    additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
    $36,250 per annum, but discontinued the position upon the appoint-
    ment of the new full-time magistrate at Muskogee or on October 1,
    1988, whichever comes first.

Oklahoma, Western:

    Authorized a part-time magistrate position at Altus at a salary of
    $2,134 per annum.

               COMMllTEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES

        The Committee on Pacific Territories reported on its activities to
secure enactment of legislation previously supported by the Judicial
Conference to authorize certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit from certain cases decided by the High Court of
American Samoa (September 1987 Session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 96-97) and
to permit federal judges to sit in the courts of countries with which the
         United States has a Compact of Free Association (March 1987 Session,
         Conf. Rpt., p. 39). The Committee also reported that the United States
         will host the Judicial Conference of the South Pacific in Hawaii in the
         Spring of 1989.                                                             !


              COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

                                 RULES AMENDMENTS

                  The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported
         that on August 1, 1987, in the absence of congressional action, amend-
         ments to the Civil, Criminal, and Bankruptcy Rules approved by the
     I
         Conference at its September 1986 session (Conf. Rpt., pp. 67-68) took
         effect. Amendments to the Federal Rules of Evidence, also approved by
         the Conference in September, 1986, took effect on October 1, 1987,
         failing congressional action.

                 The Office of the Law Revision Counsel, U.S. House of Repre-
         sentatives, identified a number of technical errors .in some of these
         amendments. After reviewing these errors, the Committee submitted to
         the Conference appropriate amendments to correct them, accompanied
5
         by Advisory Committee Notes explaining that they are purely technical in
I        nature. The Conference approved the amendments, and transmitted
f
         them to the Supreme Court for consideration, with the recommendation
5        that they be approved by the Court and transmitted to the Congress
i!
L        pursuant to law.
I                      COMMITTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
iF   ,                          LONG-RANGE PLANNING
i    i
                  Recognizing the need to establish long-range planning for the
         courts' space and facilities requirements, the Judicial Conference voted
         to direct the courts to develop such long-range plans for facilities and
         space requirements. 'The Conference also directed the Committee on
                                                                                         !
         Space and Facilities to review and approve instructions to be submitted
         by the Administrative Office for the courts' use in developing the plans.       Ii
                                                                                         g
                    COURTHOUSEMANAGEMENT

          On the recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Confer-
ence approved a pilot program in which a court assumes the respon-
sibility of managing its courthouse under a delegation of authority from
the General Services Administration, under the following conditions:

    1.   An assessment of each building's condition will be
         performed and used in making decisions on the terms
         of delegations of authority and funding arrangements
         that may be established.

    2.   Each pilot court must have adequate staff and other-
         wise be prepared to manage its building before the
         delegation of authoriiy is effected.

    3.   Each pilot court that assumes buildings management
         responsibilities will work with the Administrative Office
         to develop a method for evaluation of the results of the
         pilot.

    4.   All delegations of authority for the courts are to be
         signed by the Director of the Administrative Office in
         accordance with his statutory responsibilities, when he
         is satisfied that it is proper to do so.

        The Northern District of Alabama, which is currently managing
its new courthouse under a delegation of authority from GSA, will
continue to do so as part of this pilot program. The Committee recom-
mended, and the Conference approved, the Court of Appeals for the
Eleventh Circuit and the District Courts in Southern Florida and Western
Washington as potential participants in the pilot program.

            PROCEEDINGS UNDER JLlDlClAL CONDUCT
                    AND DISABILITY ACT

       The Judicial Conference, by unanimous vote, authorized the
Secretary of the Conference to execute and issue to the Speaker of the
House of Representatives a certificate providing as follows:
                          CERTIFICATE

TO THE SPEAKER, UNITED STATES HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES:

    The Judicial Conference of the United States, acting
pursuant to section 331 of title 28, United States Code, does
hereby certify as follows:

  1. On February 11, 1988, the Judicial Council of the Fifth
Circuit certified to the Judicial Conference, as provided by 28
U.S.C. 372(c)(7)(B), that United States District Judge Watter
L. Nixon, Jr., of the Southern District of Mississippi has
engaged in conduct which might constitute one or more
grounds for impeachment under Article I of the United States
Constitution.

   2. The Judicial Conference has exercised its authoriiy
under 28 U.S.C. 372(c)(8) to consider the certificate of the
Judicial Council of the Fifth Circuit. In so doing, the Judicial
Conference had before it certified official records of judicial
proceedings manifesting as follows:

        On March 31, 1986, Judge Nixon was
        convicted of two counts of violating section
        1623 of title 18, United States Code.

        On January 19, 1988, Judge Nixon's
        conviction became final upon denial of a
        petition for wrii of certiorari by the Supreme
        Court of the United States.

    3. Pursuant to Rule 1 of the Rules for Processing of
Certificates from Judicial Councils that a Judicial Officer
Might Have Engaged in Impeachable Conduct, the Judicial
Conference considers no additional investigation by the
Conference itself to be appropriate. It is apparent that the
certification by the Judicial Council is premised entirely upon
a judgment of conviction in a criminal case and that the
judgment has become final. As provided in 28 U.S.C.
372(c)(8), the Judicial Conference concurs in the determina-
tion of the Judicial Council that Judge Nixon has engaged in
  conduct which might constitute one or more grounds for
  impeachment under Article I of the Constitution.

    4. Consideration of the impeachment of Judge Nixon may
  be warranted.

    There are attached the certificate of the Judicial Council of
  the Fifth Circuit to the Judicial Conference, a letter, dated
   February 26, 1988, to the Judicial Conference of the United
  States from the Acting Chief Judge of the Fifth Circuit, and
  certified copies of the judgment and commitment order of
  the United States District Court for the Southern District of
  Mississippi entered on March 31, 1986; the judgment of the
  United States Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit on
  April 30, 1987, affirming the judgment of the District Court,
  supported by opinions issued on April 30, 1987, affirming the
  judgment and on September 8, 1987, denying Judge Nixon's
  petition for rehearing and suggestion for rehearing en banc;
  and an order of the Supreme Court of the United States,
  dated January 19, 1988, denying the petition for writ of
  certiorari filed by Judge Nixon.

      Executed this 15th day of March, 1988.




                                      L. Ralph Mecham*
                                      Secretary




                                                                    e9
                                                                    I i
*The Chief Justice and Judge Charles Clark were not present         ;+
and did not participate in the deliberations of the Judicial        fi
                     MEMORIAL RESOLUTIONS

       Noting the death of Judge Carl McGowan, the Judicial Confer-
ence adopted the following resolution:

               The Judicial Conference of the United States
        notes with sadness the death of Carl McGowan on
        December 23, 1987, in Washington, D.C.

                  Appointed in 1963 by President John F.
         Kennedy, Carl McGowan served with distinction as a
         member of the United States Court of Appeals for the
         District of Columbia Circuit for almost 25 years,
        completing his last sitting with the Court only a few
        months before his death. He acted as Chief Judge of
        the Court of Appeals for several months in 1981, just
        prior to taking senior status. In his two-and-one-half
        decades on the Court, Judge McGowan authored
         nearly 500 opinions, all of them illumined by clear
        reason, lucid expression, sure wisdom, and often a
        surprising wit. His patrician intelligence was a perfect
        match for his democratic soul. Judge McGowan's
        service on the Court spanned a time of turbulence and
        change for the country and for the Court. The issues
        he dealt with included the Watergate prosecutions, the
        Nixon tapes, the Pentagon Papers, the redefining of
                                                                      '1
        the rights of criminal defendants, the restructuring of
        administrative law, and key challenges to separation of       !
        powers principles. At all times he was a revered              11I.
                                                                      3
        colleague steadfastly moving the Court toward com-            1


        mon ground.

                 Born in Hymera, Indiana, Carl McGowan was a
        Dartmouth and Columbia Law School graduate, a
        World War II naval officer, a distinguished private
        practitioner, a Professor of Law at Northwestern
        University Law School, and Counsel to Governor Adlai
        Stevenson of Illinois. A master of politics and govern-
        ment, he was the quintessential legal realist; a
        precisionist in thought and word, his scholarly prag-
        matism permeated the Court's jurisprudence through-
        out his tenure.
                 Outside the Court, Judge McGowan main-
        tained a lively presence in the wider world of his
        profession. He was a member of the governing
        Councils of the American Law Institute and the Ad-
        ministrative Conference of the United States. He also
        served as the United States Judicial Conference liaison
        to the Administrative Conference and on several of the
        Judicial Conference's key committees. In his latter.
        years, he worked hard to bring order into the chaos of
        law clerk recruitment practices. He was also Chairman
        of the American Bar Association's Committee on
        Standards of Judicial Administration, and a Director of
        the Salzburg Seminar. A model of intellectual bril-
        liance, invincible spirit, startling wit, impregnable
        integriiy and a beloved colleague and mentor, he will
        be sorely missed in our ranks.

                The members of the. Judicial Conference
        convey their deepest sympathies to Judge McGowanls
        family and request that this Resolution be sent to his
        widow, Jody McGowan, as a sign of our affection and
        respect.


       Noting the death of Judge Edward Weinfeld, the Conference
adopted the following resolution:

              The United States Judicial Conference notes with
        deep sadness the death of Judge Edward Weinfeld on
        January 17, 1988 in New Yo& City. Judge Weinfeld
        had served on the bench of the Southern District of
        New York since August 14, 1950 and was, at the time
        of his death, the senior active district judge in the
        United States.

               During his long tenure he had earned the
       reputation in his home community and throughout the
       nation as a trial judge without peer. The scholarship
       and depth of thought of his opinions were such that
       they were generally regarded as authoritative and
       ranked in persuasiveness with the decisions of appel-
       late courts. His habit of starting the work day at dawn
became legendary. The combination of his high
professional competence, industry and . courtesy
caused him to be widely admired by lawyers and
judges.

         Judge Weinfeld was born in New York City on
May 14, 1901. He was educated in the New York City
public school system and attended New York Univer-
sity Law School directly out of high school, receiving
his LL.B. at the age of 20 in 1921, and an LL.M. in
1922. He practiced as a single practitioner from 1924
to 1950. His pre-judicial career included wide public
service. He was Chief Counsel of the New York State
Legislative Committee to investigate bondholders
committees, a delegate to the New York State Con-
stitutional Convention of 1938, and served under
Governor Herbert H. Lehman as New York State's first
Housing Commissioner. Thereafter he acted as
Director of War Housing for the New York State War
Council, and was President of the National ,Housing
Conference and-of the National Association of Housing
Officials. He was extremely active in the affairs of his
university, serving as President of the New York
University Board of Trustees of the Law Center
Foundation and as a life member of the Board of
Trustees of New York University, from which he
received an honorary LL.D. in 1970.

         Judge Weinfeld served as a member of the
Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation for the 10-year
period 1968-1978 and was appointed by the Chief
Justice to serve as a member of the Commission on
the Bankruptcy Laws of the United States from 1971 to
1973. He was Chairman of the Judicial Conference
Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy
System from 1967 to 1979 and had been a member of
the Committee since 1956.

        Within the weeks before his death, Judge
Weinfeld became the first recipient of the Henry J.
Friendly Medal awarded by the American Law Institute
and was selected by the Mayor of New York City to
receive the LaGuardia Medal, New York City's highest
award.
                        45
                 The members of the Judicial Conference
         convey their sympathy to his widow Lillian, his daugh-
         ters Ann and Fern and his grandchildren, and ask that
         this Resolution be sent to them as a mark of the
         Conference's profound respect and high esteem.

                              ELECTIONS

        The Conference reaffirmed the Executive Committee's elections
to membership on the Board of the Federal Judicial Center of Judge
David D. Dowd of the Northern District of Ohio (vice District Judge David
Mazzone) and Judge J. Cliffod Wallace of the Ninth Circuit (vice Justice
Anthony Kennedy). The Conference also elected Judge Collins J. Seitz
of the Third Circuit to membership on the Board of Certification for Court
Executives, vice Judge Jack Miller.

                               FUNDING

         All of the foregoing recommendations which require the expendi-
ture of funds were approved by the Conference subject to the availability
of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the Conference might
establish for the use of available resources.

                 RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

         The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters
considered at this session where necessary for legislative or administra-
tive action.




                                       Chief Justice of the United
                                       Presiding


March 24, 1988
