              REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
          JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNWED STATES

                               March 14, 1989



        The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on
March 14, 1989, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United
States issued under 28 U.S.C. 331. The Chief Justice presided and the
following members of the Conference were present:

First Circuit:

           Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
           Chief Judge Frank H. Freedman, District of
                                                   \

                   Massachusetts

Second Circuit:

           Chief Judge James L. Oakes
           Judge John T. Curtin, Western District of New York

Third Circuit:

           Chief Judge John J. Gibbons
           Judge William J. Nealon, Jr., Middle District of
                   Pennsylvania

Fourth Circuit:

           Chief Judge Sam J. Ervin, Ill
           Judge Frank A. Kaufman, District of Maryland

Fifth Circuit:

           Chief Judge Charles Clark
           Chief Judge L. T. Senter, Jr., Northern District of
                   Mississippi
Sixth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Albert J. Engel
          Chief Judge James P. Churchill, Eastern District of
                  Michigan'
                                               -
Seventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge William J. Bauer
          Judge Sarah Evans Barker, Southern District of Indiana

Eighth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
          Chief Judge John F. Naqgle, Eastern District of
                  Missouri

Ninth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Alfred T. Goodwin
          Judge Robert F. Peckham, Northern District of
                  California

Tenth Circuit:

          Chief Judge William J. Holloway
          Chief Judge Earl E. O'Connor, District of Kansas

Eleventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge Paul H. Roney
          Chief Judge Sam C. Pointer, Jr., Northern District of
                  Alabama

District of Columbia Circuit:

          Chief Judge Patricia M. Wald
          Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District of
                  Columbia


'Designated by the Chief Justice in place of the late Judge Phillip Pratt,
who resigned from the Conference on January 11, 1989.
Federal Circuit:

          Chief Judge Howard T. Markey

Court of International Trade:

          Chief Judge Edward D. Re

       Circuit Judges Richard S. Arnold, Edward R. Becker, Stephanie K.
Seymour, and Walter K. Stapleton; Senior Circuit Judges Frank M. Coffin
and Joseph F. Weis, Jr.; District Judges Juan M. Perez-Gimenez and
William W. Schwarzer; Senior District Judge Walter T. McGovern; and
Claims Court Judge Loren A. Smith attended all or some of the sessions
of the Conference. Circuit Executives Vincent Flanagan (First Circuit),
Steven Flanders (Second Circuit), John P. Hehman (Third Circuit),
Samuel W. Phillips (Fourth Circuit), Lydia Comberrel (Fifth Circuit),
James A. Higgins (Sixth Circuit), Collins T. Fitzpatrick (Seventh Circuit),
June L. Boadwine (Eighth Circuit), Eugene Murret (Tenth Circuit),
Norman E. Zoller (Eleventh Circuit), and Linda Finkelstein (District of
Columbia Circuit), and Assistant Circuit Executive Greg Walters (Ninth
Circuit) were also present.

        Congressman Jack Brooks, Chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, and Congressman Robert W. Kastenmeier, Chairman of the
House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Civil Liberties and the
Administration of Justice, attended the Conference briefly and spoke on
matters pending in the Congress of interest to the judiciary. The
Attorney General of the United States, Dick Thornburgh, addressed the
Conference on matters of mutual interest to the Department of Justice
and the Conference.

        L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts, attended the sessions of the Conference, as did
James E. Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General
Counsel; Robert E. Feidler, Legislative and Public Affairs Officer;
Karen K. Siegel, Chief, Office of the Judicial Conference Secretariat;
Catherine Ball, Counsel, Legislative and Public Affairs Office; and
David A. Sellers, Public Information Officer. Judge John C. Godbold,
Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also attended the sessions of the
Conference, as did Noel Augustyn, Administrative Assistant to the Chief
Justice, and Richard Schickele, Staff Counsel to the United States
Supreme Court.
                     REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR
                   OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
                   OF THE UNITED STATES COLIRTS
                                                                  -
        The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, L. Ralph Mecham, submitted to the Conference a brief report
summarizing the workload of the federal judiciary during the calendar
year 1988.

                JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF 'THE COURTS

         Mr. Mecham reported that filings in the 12 regional courts of
 appeals rose by more than nine percent in 1988, to 38,965 appeals.
This increase was due in substantial part to a 24 percent increase in
 appeals of criminal cases fro'm the district courts. In addition to the
increase in criminal appeals, there were also substantial increases in
appeals from rulings of the district courts on state and federal prisoner
petitions, on private civil cases, and on decisions from administrative
agencies. The courts of appeals closed 36,733 appeals in 1988, a four
percent increase over the 35,272 appeals closed in the previous year.
 Despite this rise in terminations, the pending caseload increased by
more than eight percent, to 29,128 on December 31, 1988. The number
of cases filed in the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit dropped
more than seven percent to 1,303, compared to the 1,406 appeals filed
during the previous year. This reduction was due entirely to a 14
percent decline in the number of appeals from the Merit Systems
Protection Board. The total number of appeals closed by the court was
also down slightly in 1988, by three percent, due in substantial part to
the reduced level of MSPB appeals. Since the court closed more cases
than were filed, the pending caseload at the end of the year fell to 661
appeals, three percent lower than the pending caseload recorded one
year ago.

         During 1988, the number of civil cases filed in the district courts
rose by two percent to 240,232, compared to the 234,748 reported in
1987. 'This rise represents a significant change from the four percent
decline reported last year. This year's rise in filings resulted primarily
from increases in cases related to asbestos personal injury, case filings
involving the government's effortsto recover on defaulted student loans,
and cases withdrawn from the bankruptcy courts. In contrast to the
overall increase in civil cases, there was a significant and continuing
decline in the number of cases involving recovery of overpayments on
veterans' benefits. During the year, the district courts closed 237,684
civil cases, two percent more than the closings recorded in the previous
                                     4
year. Even with the increase, however, the courts could not keep pace
with the increased level of new filings. As a result, the pending civil
                                                                             '
caseload grew one percent, to 247,401 cases on December 31,1988.

         Criminal filings continued to increase in 1988 but at a slightly
lower rate than in the past. During 1988, criminal filings rose by one
percent to 44,761. The increase resulted from the same case types
which have been driving the criminal caseload for the last several years.
Prosecutions for drug offenses continued the increasing trend from past
years with a 13 percent rise in 1988. Filings for violations involving
narcotics were up more than 15 percent, while filings related to
prescription drugs were up 33 percent. The disposition rate for criminal
cases was down almost five percent in 1988, to 41 $136 cases. This
reduced level of dispositions is in sharp contrast to the increasing trend
reported over the last several years. Wih the reduction in the
disposition rate, the pending criminal caseload rose by nearly 14 percent
at year's end. On December 31, 1988, there were almost 30,000
pending criminal cases.

         The number of bankruptcy petitions filed continued to increase in
1988, although at a slightly slower rate than in past years. This year,
filings rose by six percent, after increases of eight and 28 percent in
1987 and 1986, respectively. Overall, non-business filings rose by
almost 12 percent, while business filings were down 22 percent. The
bankruptcy courts closed 579,109 petitions in 1988, an increase of
seven percent above the closings reported last year. Even with this
increase, filings were still greater than terminations. As a result, the
number of pending bankruptcy petitions rose to 847,019 on
December 31, 1988, four percent higher than the level reported one
year ago.

        Mr. Mecham also reported that as of March 14, 1989, there were
11 vacancies among the 168 judgeship positions authorized for the
United States courts of appeals, 34 vacancies among the 575 authorized
judgeship positions in the United States district courts, and one vacancy
on the United States Court of International Trade.

                REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE
                   FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER

       The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Judge John C.
Godbold, reported that a first-ever conference of chief judges of all
United States district courts would be sponsored by the Judicial Center
in Phoenix, Arizona, April 5-8, 1989.
                                    5
          Judge Godbold noted that the Board of the FJC had apprqved
the Judicial Center's sponsorship of a sentencing institute on a pilot
basis, to be conducted late in 1989 or early>in1990. He announced that
the Board had also approved the Center's sponsorship of approximately
40 judges to attend the Summer Program for lawyers at the Harvard Law
School in June, 1989, and explained that the Center had substantially
completely an agreement under which the University of Chicago Law
School would conduct a one week, oncampus program for around 30
Article Ill judges, also in June. This is the result of a long effort to
coordinate the needs of the federal judiciary for training with the assets,
facilities, and energies represented by accredited law schools.

       With respect to sentencing guideline procedures, Judge
Godbold advised that the Research Division is conducting a study of
sentencing procedures in several districts.

        Judge Godbold called the Conference's attention to Title Ill of
the Judicial Improvements and Access to Justice Act (Public Law
 100-702), providing for the Judicial Center as the site of a history
program for the federal judiciary. An advisory committee to work with the
Center on the organization of the program is presently being appointed.
Public Law 100-702 also established the Federal Judicial Center
Foundation, which can receive contributions of private funds. The Chief
Justice has made his three appointments to the Foundation Board, and
further appointments are to be made by the Speaker of the House and
the President Pro Tempore of the Senate.

       Judge Godbold discussed with the Conference continuing efforts
by the Center to improve the standards and quality of its teaching
programs.

                        JUDICIAL PANEL ON
                      MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION

         A written statement filed with the Conference by the Judicial
Panel on Muhidistrict Litigation indicated that during the six-month period
ended December 31, 1988, the Panel centralized 297 civil actions
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1407. Of that number, 225 were transferred for
coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings with 72 actions
originally filed in the transferee districts. The Panel denied transfer of 19
actions.
       Since its creation in 1968, the Panel has centralized 17,093 civil
actions for pretrial proceedings in carrying out its statutory
responsibilities.

                      EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

       The Executive Committee reported that, since the last session of
the Conference in September, 1988, the Executive Committee had
addressed the following matters on the Conference's behalf:

          APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1989

        On October 26, 1988, the Executive Committee approved a
spending plan for the appropriation "Salaries and Expenses" for the
fiscal year 1989. A revised plan was approved January 24, 1989.
Additional revisions are anticipated later in the fiscal year.

       TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

        On October 6, 1988, the Executive Committee approved the
implementation of increased per diem rates for justices and judges and
increased reimbursement rates for travel by privately-owned automobile.
In addition, effective November 19, 1988, the Committee approved
amendments to the travel regulations for justices and judges to
incorporate changes permitted by the Judicial Improvements and Access
to Justice Act (Public Law 100-702), to allow bankruptcy judges and
United States magistrates to be reimbursed for their travel expenses in
the same amounts, and in the same circumstances, as Article Ill judges.
See March 1987 session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 17-18.

               SALARY MATCHING FOR LAW CLERKS

        Effective February 15, 1989, in order to ensure that advanced
salary rates for law clerks are in fact paid for advanced knowledge and
experience, the Executive Committee amended the Judges' Manual,
Volume Ill, Section D. Chapter X, of the Guide to Judiciary Policies and
Procedures, to read as follows:

         Salary Matching. Judges' personal staffs will be
         appointed at the first step of the grade for which they
         qualify in accordance wih the qualification standards.
         However, if requested by the appointing officer at the
         time of appointment, to avoid any financial hardship
         suffered by a secretary, or by a law clerk who qualifies
         at the JSP-12 level or higher (thus requiring bar
         membership and at least one year of legal work
         experience), the Administrative &ice will approve a
                                    7
           step within the-grade which k commensurate with the
           annual gross salary the secretary or law clerk was
           receiving at the time of employment by the judiciary.
           In applying this provision, the Administrative Office
          does not include as part of the gross annual salary any
          fringe benefits, such as free parking, overtime pay,
          health benefits coverage, life insurance coverage, and
          retirement.

See also the March 14, 1989, action of the Judicial Conference on this
subject, -
         infra p. 24.

                VIDEOTAPING COURT PROCEEDINGS

         At its March 1988 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 27), the Judicial
Conference authorized the videotaping of the trial in In re Washington
Public Power Supply System Securities Litigation, MDL 551 (all cases),
provided that the videotape would not constitute the official court record
and there would be no public access to the tapes. On behalf of the
Conference, the Executive Committee approved the videotaping of the
trial in In re San Juan Dupont Plaza Hotel Fire Litigation, MDL 721,
under similar conditions.

                                ELECTION

        'The Executive Committee elected to membership on the Board
of the Federal Judicial Center Judge Monroe G. McKay of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit (for a term of four years to
succeed Circuit Judge Alvin 6. Rubin, whose term expired on March 28,
1989).

                      MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

         The Executive Committee concurred in a recommendation of the
Judicial Council of the Eighth Circuit that Congress amend 28 U.S.C.
 122 to reconfigure the divisions in the District of South Dakota; raised
the ceiling on salaries of the circuit executives to Executive Level IV
(with the setting of the actual salaries of circuit executives, not to exceed
Executive Level IV, remaining a matter for individual circuit councils);
approved a policy statement on equal access to federal court opinions;
selected eight courts for inclusion in a program of mandatory dtug
testing of federal defendants, as required by section 7304 of the
Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-690); and made minor
changes in the jurisdictional statements of the Budget, Federal-State
Jurisdiction, and Judicial Improvements Committees.
               COMMllTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

              RESOLIRCES FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

             Growing workloads and minimal staff increases have created a
    shortfall in the capability of the Administrative Office to support the
    courts at the level desired by both the courts and the agency's
    management staff. The Judicial Conference resolved to support
    increased resources for the Administrative Office to enable the agency to
    discharge its ongoing and recently increased responsibilities, in areas
    such as automation, contracting, support for the Federal Courts Study
    Committee created by the Judicial Improvements and Access to Justice
    Act (Public Law 100-702), and sentencing guidelines.

              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                       BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                      GUIDELINES ON USE OF OUTSIDE
                         FACILITIES AND SERVICES

            Section 156(c) of title 28 authorizes bankruptcy courts to use
    other than court facilities or services to provide notices, dockets,
    calendars, and other administrative information in bankruptcy cases
    when the costs of such facilities or services are paid for from the assets
    of estates, subject to such conditions or limitations as the judicial
    councils of the circuits may prescribe. Since none of the councils has
    imposed any conditions or limitations, bankruptcy courts have permitted
    a wide variety of practices, some of which fail to comply with the
    mandate of Bankruptcy Rule 5005(a) that all case papers be filed with
    the court.

              On the recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, the
    Judicial Conference approved the promulgation of guidelines for the use
    of other than court facilities and services, for the consideration of the
    judicial councils of the circuits.

                     SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT OF
                          BANKRUPTCY JUDGES
I
I           At its September 1984 session (Conf. Rpt., pp. 70-71), the
    Judicial Conference approved regulations for the selection and
    appointment of bankruptcy judges. At this session, the Conference
~   amended the selection regulations to provide that a finalist or nominee
for a bankruptcy judgeship may be required to complete a confklential'
preliminary financial disclosure statement prior to the preparation of
background reports by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the
Internal Revenue Service.

                  EXTENSION OF TERMS OF OFFICE
                    FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

         Obsewing that current law fails to provide for an incumbent
bankruptcy judge to "hold over" until reappointment is effected or a
successor is appointed, the Conference agreed to recommend that
Congress amend the third sentence of 28 U.S.C. 152(a) to read as
follows:

          Each bankruptcy judge shall be appointed for a term of
         fourteen years, subject to the provisions of subsection
         (e), provided, however, that upon the expiration of the
         term, a bankruptcy judge may, with the approval of the

         duties of the office until the earlier of 180 davs
         following the expiration or the appointment of a
         successor. [Underlined language to be added.]

                  ADDITIONAL DUTY STATIONS AND
                    PLACES OF HOLDING COURT
                    FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

          Public Law 100-587 authorized one additional bankruptcy
judgeship position in each of seven districts: the Eastern and Western       ,

Districts of Texas, the Eastern District of Kentucky, and the Districts of
Alaska, Arizona, Colorado, and Kansas. In accordance with the
Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal Judgeship Act of 1984 (Public
Law 98-353), which reestablished the authority of the Judicial
Conference to determine official duty stations of bankruptcy judges (after
considering the recommendations of the Diredor after the Director has
consulted with the judicial councils of the circuits involved), the
Conference approved the five designations of official duty stations noted
below. Since no recommendations had been made by the Judicial
Councils of the Sixth and Ninth Circuits for the Eastern District of
Kentucky and the District of Arizona, respectively, designations for those
districts will be made at a later date.
              Texas, Eastern                  Beaumont
              Texas, Western                  Austin
              Alaska                          Anchorage
              Colorado                        Denver
              Kansas                          Topeka           \




                                                                                 )
             At the request of the Judicial Council of the Ninth Circuit, the    i
    Judicial Conference also changed the designation of a place of holding
    court for the Bankruptcy Court for the Northem District of California from   1

    "Monterey" to "Monterey or Salinas".

                     COMMIlTEE ON THE BICENTENNIAL
                         OF THE CONSTITUTION

             The Committee on the Bicentennial of the Constitution reported
    on its participation in the Bicentennial effort. The Committee has been
    active in promoting and funding Bicentennial activities.
I
I
                        COMMllTEE ON THE BUDGET

                 APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEARS
                            1989 AND 1990

            The Committee on the Budget reported that the fiscal year 1989
I   supplemental budget request will be amended to request $18,190,000 to
I
    implement fully the sentencing guidelines recently held constitutional by
    the Supreme Court in United States v. Mistretta, U.S. , No. 87-7028
    (January 18, 1989). A budget amendment totalin~$17,7i0,000will also
I   be submitted, to provide full year funding in the fiscal year 1990 for the
I   continuing impact of guideline sentencing.
1                  FUNDING FOR JUDICIAL EMERGENCIES
I            The Budget Committee agreed to discontinue two practices
    related to the processing of requests for temporary assistance to handle
    judicial emergencies. Henceforth (1) automatic increases of $2,500 in a
    judicial council's allocation for temporary and emergency chambers staff
    for each month a judge or magistrate position is vacant will be
    discontinued, with the understanding that funds have been and will
    continue to be made available to all courts to perform their primary
functions; and (2) it will be sufficient for affected judicial officers to certify
to the Director of the Administrative Office the need for temporary
assistance to judges and magistrates in cases of sick or maternity leave,
eliminating a previous requirement for judicial council review and
approval. See also "Retention of Staff Upon the Death or Incapacity of a
Judge", -infra p. 23.

                 COMMlTrEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

         The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last
report, the Committee had received 23 written inquiries and issued 20
advisory responses. The Chairman also responded to 37 telephone
inquiries that did not require reference to the Committee.

      CODE OF CONDUCT FOR FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDERS

        At its September 1988 session (Conf. Rpt., pp. 67-68), the
Judicial Conference approved revisions to the Codes of Conduct for
Clerks of Court, Probation Officers, Circuit Executives, Staff Attorneys,
and Law Clerks, to eliminate gender-specific language and to make
"practice of law" and "participation in professional organizations"
provisions uniform. At this session, the Conference approved parallel
changes in the Code of Conduct for Federal Public Defenders.

                      ETHICS COMMISSION REPORT

         On March 9, 1989, a Commission on Federal Ethics Law
Reform, chaired by Ambassador (and former Judge) Malcolm Wilkey,
reported its recommendations to the President. The Judicial Conference
referred the report and recommendations to the Executive Committee for
appropriate action, in consultation with the Codes of Conduct and
Judicial Ethics Committees.

                   COMMITTEE ON COURT SECURITY

           "OFF SITE" SECURITY FOR JUDICIAL OFFICERS
                       AND THEIR FAMILIES

         Recognizing the importance of ensuring the safety of judicial
officers when they are away from the courthouse, the Conference
approved the following declaration of policy:
          1. The physical security of the judicial officers and that
          of those who attend and work in the courts is of extreme
          importance to the effective administration of justice.
          Judicial officers and those around them are sometimes
          exposed to risks arising out of the fact of an official
          position held, whether or not such judicial officers are
          actually then engaged in the performance of official
          duties.

          2. While present methods generally provide adequate
          security within and adjacent to the environs of
          courthouses and leased facilities, there is a need to
          explore     increased protection       and    emergency
          communications for judicial officers of the United States
          while they are traveling and at home.

          3.    Accordingly, the Director of the Administrative Office
          of the United States Courts, in consultation with the Court
          Security Committee, the United States Marshals Service,
          and other appropriate agencies, shall develop and report
          to the Court Security Committee a plan to explore the
          need for "off site" physical security of judicial officers and
          their families and their exposure to the risk of physical
          harm or endangerment because of the official positions
          held by such officers, with the understanding that this will
          not result in additional staffing or funding in the
          Administrative Off ice.

                     PARTICIPATIONON LOCAL
                   COURT SECURITY COMMllTEES

         In order to improve the security of the courts, the Judicial
Conference approved expanding the membership of district court
security committees to include a representative of the bankruptcy court
and, where there is a court of appeals within the district, a representative
of that court.
                  COMMllTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                 AND PROBATION ADMINISTRATION

                    DRUG AFTERCARE PROGRAM

        Public Law 95-537 authorized the Director of the Administrative
Office to contract for the treatment of drug addicted and dependent
federal offenders, and in 1987, Congress expanded the Director's
contracting authoriay to include treatment for alcohol dependent federal
offenders. Authorization for appropriations to implement the program
expires September 30,1989.

        The Judicial Conference approved the submission of legislation
to reauthorize, for an additional three years, appropriations for the
Director to contract for substance abuse and psychiatric treatment.

                  ANTI-DRUG ABUSE ACT REPORT

        Section 6159(b) of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (Public Law
100-690) requires that, not later than 120 days after enactment, the
Judicial Conference shall prepare a report evaluating the lmpad of
drug-related criminal activity on the federal judiciary. In light of the
March 18, 1989, due date for that report, the Judicial Conference
delegated to the Committee authoriiy to approve and transmit the report
on behatf of the Conference.

               COMMlTlEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES

                  APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

        The Committee reported that during the fiscal year 1988,
approximately 65,507 persons were represented under the Criminal
Justice Act, compared to 62,094 persons during the fiscal year 1987, an
increase of 5.5 percent. Of the 65,507 persons represented, 34,685, or
52.9 percent, were represented by federal public and community
defender organizations.

               BUDGET AND GRANT REQUESTS             -
                   FEDERAL PUBLIC AND
             COMMUNIW DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

       The Conference approved additional funding for the fiscal year
1989 in the amount of $48,965 for the Federal Public Defender
Organization for the District of Colorado, and additional funding for the
fiscal years 1989 and 1990 in the amounts of $23,791 and $76,642,
respectively, for the Federal Public Defender Organization for the
Southern District of West Virginia. In addition, the Conference approved
additional sustaining grant funds for the fiscal year 1990 for the Legal
Aid Society of New York, Federal Defender Sewices Unit, in the amount
of $58,388. Finally, the Conference approved funding for a proposed
federal defender organization for the District of Columbia for the fiscal
years 1989 and 1990 in the amounts of $672,468 and $1,102,725,
respectively, subject to final action by the Judicial Council of the District
of Columbia Circuit.

               DEATH PENALTY RESOURCE CENTERS

        To date, thirteen death penalty resource centerslcommunity
defender organizations have been authorized. Each has been formally
designated as a community defender organization by the district court(s)
to be served, and funding has been approved for each organization both
by the Judicial Conference and by the Congress.


        'The Conference approved sustaining grants for the fiscal years
1989 and 1990 for a fourteenth death penalty resource center, for the
Eastem and Western Districts of Missouri, in the amounts of $136,987
and $305,560, respectively, contingent upon the cqanization's securing
the requisite amount of non-CJA funds, and further contingent upon the
approval of amendments to the CJA plans for the districts to be sewed.

          ALTERNATIVE HOURLY COMPENSAI-ION RATES

         Subsection (d)(l) of the Criminal Justice Act, as amended (18
U.S.C. 3006A(d)(l)), authorizes the Judicial Conference to establish
hourly maximum attorney compensation rates of up to $75 in districts or
circuits where the statutory rates of $60 for in-court time and $40 for
out-ofcourt time are inadequate. The Conference has previously
approved "special" alternative rates of $75 per hour for representation in
death penalty cases for 21 districts, and "general" alternative rates of
varying amounts for 16 districts (September 1987 session, Conf. Rpt.,
pp. 94-95; March 1988 session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 15-16; September 1988
session, Conf. Rpt., p. 75). Due to limited funding, only the special
death penalty rates have been implemented.
        The circumstances have changed, however, with enactment of
the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-690). Effective
November 18, 1988, the attorney compensation rates and maximums
which would otherwise apply in federal death penalty habeas corpus
cases were effectively repealed, through enactment of an amendment to
21 U.S.C. 848(q)(10).          That section currently provides that,
notwithstanding other provisions of law to the contrary, a court shall
award attorney fees and expenses in amounts "reasonably necessary"
to assure that qualified counsel are available to provide representation in
federal capital prosecutions, and in proceedings brought to vacate or set
aside a death sentence under sections 2254 and 2255 of title 28. The
Conference accordingly approved amendments to paragraph 2.22(A)(2)
of the Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act to
delete references to special death penalty alternative rates.

        While the promulgation of special death penalty rates is no
bnger appropriate, the Conference is concerned about the lack of
standards for use by judicial'off icers in setting attorney compensation for
death penalty representation. Consequently, the Conference voted to
recommend that each circuit, through its judicial council, consider
recommending a policy statement, guideline, or range w l h regard to
attorney compensation in federal capital cases and in death penalty
habeas corpus cases, and report to the Defender Services Committee
by May 15, 1989, on any action taken. After considering the circuit
responses, the Committee may recommend establishment of a model or
uniform fee policy in this area, both to ensure adequate compensation
and to keep such payments within the constraints of the Defender
Services appropriation.

                             DELEGATIONS

         The Judicial Conference delegated authority to the Defender
Services Committee (1) to adopt and modify non-controversial
guidelines, and (2) to approve federal defender organization budget and
grant requests and increase individual defender organization budgets
and grants within the limits of the appropriation. The Conference also
authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to increase individual
defender organization budgets and grants within the limits of the
appropriation to provide for unanticipated and unforeseen expenditures,
(1) provided that the request for additional funds cannot or need not
await consideration by the Defender Services Committee at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, and (2) subject to such guidelines,
limitations, and spending priorities as may be established by the
Defender Services Committee.
    I
                 In addition, the Conference was advised that the Defender
    I    Services Committee had increased the authority of federal public and
    1
    I
        community defenders to reallocate funds between and within their
    I   budget and grant object classifications. Except for funds from the
        "personnel and benefitswcategory (for which approval for reallocationwill
    i   continue to be required from the Defender Services Committee or the
        Director of the Administrative Office), federal defender organizations will
    I
        be permitted to reallocate both between and within object classifications,
        provided the amount transferred does not exceed $25,000, and subject
        to such other limitations as the Defender Services Committee may
    I   establish. The Conference approved identical amendments to Clause 4
        of the "Grant and Conditions" for death penalty resource
    I   center/community defender organizations to reflect the new authority.

                                      GUIDELINES

                The Conference approved the following amendments to the
        Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act:

                  1.   An amendment to paragraph 3.16, authorizing the
                       establishment of "expert consultant" panels to
                       provide assistance to appointed counsel in
                       districts that do not have death penalty resource
                       centers.

                  2.   An amendment to paragraph 3.13 concerning
                       payment of defense fad witnesses.


                  3.   An amendment to Appendices E and F, to clarify
                       the procedures for effecting interim payment of
                       compensation to attorneys and others providing
                       representation under the CJA.


                The Conference also approved identical amendments to Clause
I
        19 of the "Grant and Conditions" for community defender organizations,
I       and Clause 19 of the "Grant and Conditions" for death penalty resource
1       centers, relating to the filing of equal employment opportunity plans.
          COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION

                    UNITED STATES CLAIMS COURT

         The Judicial Conference has on several recent occasions
 considered the role within the judiciary of the United States Claims Court
 (September 1987 session, Conf. Rpt., p. 68; March 1988 session, Conf.
 Rpt., p. 29; September 1988 session, Conf. Rpt., p. 67). At its
September 1988 session (Conf. Rpt., pp. 67, 76), the Judicial
Conference agreed that the Claims Court should remain within the
judiciary's "salaries and expenses" appropriation. The Conference also
agreed that the Court should remain within the policy structure of the          -
Judicial Conference and the existing administrative structure, and
directed the Committee on Federal-StateJurisdiction to consider ways in
which to enlarge the paoicipation of the Claims Court in the existing
structure.

         At the request of the Chief Judge of the Claims Court, the
Conference rejected a recommendation that Congress amend 28 U.S.C.
41 to define the Federal Circuit as including the Claims Court, to provide
a statutory basis for recognizing the Claims Court as an administrative
part of the Federal Circuit. The Conference thereafter discharged the
Committee from further consideration of this matter.

           COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

         The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during
the period August 1, 1988, through January 31, 1989, 58 intercircuit
assignments were undertaken by 47 judges. Of this number, one was a
retired associate justice of the United States Supreme Court, 14 were
senior circuit judges, 10 were active circuit judges, 18 were senior district
judges, one was a senior judge of the Court of International Trade, and
three were active judges of the Court of International Trade.

       Of the 58 assignments approved, 30 judges undertook 38
assignments to the courts of appeals, and 18 judges undertook 20
assignments to the district courts.

                               GUIDELINES

         The Committee noted that the Chief Justice had amended
guideline 8 of the guidelines governing intercircuit assignment of Article
Ill judges (March 1987 session, Conf. Rpt., pp. 23-25), to eliminate the
link between the period of time a judge can be assigned outside the
                                     18
                I
                    circuit and the distance traveled. Henceforth, the guidelines will provide
                    that a judge assigned to work on the court of appeals should serve for at
                    least one regular sitting (as defined by that circuit), and a judge assigned
            I
                I   to work on the general calendar of a district court should serve at least
            I       two weeks.
            I
            I
            I
            1                COMMllTEE ON THE INTERNA'I'IONAL APPELLATE
                                    JUDGES CONFERENCE OF 1990
            i
            I                The Committee on the International Appellate Judges
                    Conference reported on its progress in planning and raising funds for the
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                    I
,           I       International Appellate Judges Conference to be held in Washington,             i

                    D.C., in September, 1990.
t           l

                                   COMMlllEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

                                                 -JUDICIAL PAY

                               The single greatest problem facing the judiciary today is
                    obtaining adequate pay for judicial officers. Judges have suffered an
                    enormous erosion in their purchasing power as a result of the failure of
                    their pay to keep pace with inflation. It is becoming more and more
                    difficult to attract and retain highly qualified people on the federal bench.

                             In order to obtain a partial solution to this critical problem, the
                    Judicial Conference, by unanimous vote, agreed to recommend that
                    Congress immediately increase judicial salaries by 30 percent, and
                    couple these increases with periodic cost-of-living adjustments (COLAS)
                    similar to those received by other government recipients.

                                      COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL ETHICS

                             The Committee on Judicial Ethics reported that as of January,
        I           1989, the Committee had received 2,495 financial disclosure reports and

        1           certifications for the calendar year 1987, including 1,021 reports and
                    certifications from judicial officers, and 1,474 reports and certifications
                    from judicial employees.
    I
                                 COMMlllEE ON JUDICIAL IMPROVEMENTS

    I
                                    RELEASE AND SALE OF COLlRT DATA
    II
    ~                       A. At its September 1988 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 83), the
                    Judicial Conference authorized an experimental program of electronic
    ,                                                19
1    access by the public to court information in one or more district,            ,
I
     bankruptcy, or appellate courts, and delegated to the Committee on
    Judicial lmprovements the authority to establish access fees during the
    pendency of the program. Under existing law, fees charged for such
    services would have to be deposited into the United States Treasury.
    Observing that such fees could provide significant levels of new
    revenues at a time when the judiciary faces severe funding shortages,
    the Conference voted to recommend that Congress credit to the
    judiciary's appropriations account any fees generated by providing public
    access to court records.

            B. The Administrative Office and the Department of Justice
    have entered into an agreement whereby bankruptcy courts download
    docket information from the NIBS and BANCAP systems to local United
    States Trustee offices' computers. The agreement does not deal directly
    with use of this information by the Trustees.

             Since it is essential that this court data be disseminated and sold
    by the judiciary consistent with a uniform policy to be developed under
    the use and sale of court data program (above), the Conference
    resolved that data provided by the courts in these circumstances be for
    the Trustees' internal use only, and may not otherwise be disseminated
    or sold by the Trustees. Should the Trustees fail to comply, the judiciary
    will discontinue providing the data or seek an appropriate level of
    reimbursement.

                ONE-STEP QUALIFICATIONAND SUMMONING
                             OF JURORS

             Tile VII of the Judicial Improvements and Access to Justice Act
    (Public Law 100-702) authorizes the Judicial Conference to conduct a
    two-year experiment among up to ten districts testing the viability of a
    one-step qualification and summoning procedure. The Conference
    selected for inclusion in the experiment the Northern District of Alabama,
    the Districts of Arizona and the District of Columbia, the Southern District
    of Florida, the Northern District of Illinois, the Western District of New
    York, the Districts of Oregon and South Dakota, the Eastern District of
    Texas, and the District of Utah.

                   LAWBOOKS FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

            The Conference approved revised lists of lawbooks for
    bankruptcy judges, Exhibits C-1 and C-2 of Volume I, Guide to Judiciary
    Policies and Procedures, Chapter VIII, Part E. A concise bankruptcy
                                      20
        manual and a concise evidence manual may be added to an individual
        collection under revised Exhibit C-1 and, with respect to a shared
        collection under revised Exhibit C-2, (a) a jury instruction treatise and
        periodicals are deleted, (b) access to Shepard's Citators is restricted to
        those without access to computer assisted legal research, and (c) a
        complete set of the Federal Reporter, 2d is added (with the cost to be
        defrayed, where possible, through the transfer of excess sets within the


                             PRETERMISSION OF TERMS
                            OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS
    1
               The Judicial Conference voted to recommend that Congress
        amend 28 U.S.C. 48(c), to eliminate the requirement that the Conference
        must approve the pretermission of terms of the courts of appeals.

I                      COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                            "SAVE GRADE AND PAY" PLAN

                  At its September 1988 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 91), the Judicial
        Conference approved a "save grade and pay" plan for judiciary
        employees whose positions are abolished and who are qualified for, and
        have been selected for, lower graded positions in the judiciary. The plan
        was made applicable only to estate administrators in the United States
        bankruptcy courts, and the Judicial Resources Committee agreed to
        revisit the conditions and situations where the policy should apply.

                The Conference approved an amended plan, as recommended
        by the Committee, that defines the situations in which it is applicable, the
        length of time the provisions are to be effective, and the Judiciary Salary
        Plan (JSP) provisions which take precedence over this plan. The plan,
        as approved, will be incorporated into the Guide to ~udiciar~  policies and
        Procedures.

                     CLASSIFICATION OF CLERKS OF COURT,
                         CHIEF PROBATION OFFICERS,
                    AND CHIEF PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICERS

                At its March 1987 session (Conf. Rpt., pp. 7-8), the Judicial
        Conference approved reclassifications of the grades of clerks of court,
        chief probation officers, and chief pretrial services officers, based upon
        numerical indices. The indices, which take into account workload
        changes, were to be refigured every two years.
I,

     ,            Observing that a biennial review can create a two-year time
          period from when an increased workload level is established to its
          recognition in terms of increased salary, the Judicial Conference
         substituted in lieu thereof a quarterly review by the Administrative Office.
         'The review would be based upon the average of the indices over the
          previous six quarters to assess more accurately continuing trends in
         workload changes. The "save grade and pay" plan, above, would apply
         to incumbents of positions which are downgraded.

                                   SPECIAL PAY RATES

                  The judiciary has for several years adopted geographically
         based special pay rates for clerical and technical personnel In the
         judiciary, based upon similar pay rates adopted for such positions by the
         Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for executive branch personnel.
         The judiciary is in the process of contracting for a comprehensive review
         of the JSP, to include the subject of geographic pay differentials.

                  Pending completion of the JSP review, the Judicial Conference
         approved certain interim principles. Henceforth, other than for the
         clerical and technical positions to which they have applied in the past,
         the judiciary will not automatically adopt special pay rates established by
         OPM. Instead, the judiciary will adopt its own pay differential
         methodology, with reviews and analyses to be conducted on a regular
         basis of groups of employees experiencing problems due to pay levels.

                  After careful review and based upon the extreme emergency
         situation prevalent in the districts involved, the Conference established
         special pay rates for probation and pretrial services officers as follows:


                        California (C): 25% increase for JSP-7
                                        20% increase for JSP-9
                                        10% increase for JSP-11
                                         5% increase for JSP-12

                        New York (E) & (S): 15% increase for JSP-7
                                            15% increase for JSP-9
                                            10% increase for JSP-11
                                             5% increase for JSP-12

                        Florida (S): 10% increase for JSP-7
                                     10% increase for JSP-9
                                      5% increase for JSP-11
                                      5% increase for JSP-12
                 JUDICIARY SALARY PLAN MODIFICATIONS

           On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
    approved the following modifications to the JSP:

         1.       Reclassification of courtroom deputy clerk positions
                  serving magistrates with "limited" duties from JSP-7 to
                  JSP-8, and reclassification of calendar clerks (master
                  calendar) from JSP-10 to JSP-11.

         2.       Reclassification of chief deputy clerks from JSP-15 to
                  JSP-16, but only if the district and bankruptcy operations
                  are consolidated under the district court clerk; the district
                  clerk's position is classifiable at the JSP-17 level; there
                  are five or more staffed divisional offices of the clerk's
                  office; and the reclassification will result in savings of
                  salary costs, when compared to classifications which
                  would result from applying the JSP ceilings to positions
                  under the district clerk of JSP-15 for chief deputies and
                  JSP-13 for mid-level managers.

         3.       Classification of automation positions (systems managers
                  and training center managers at the JSP-13 level;
                  assistant systems managers and applications training
                  specialists at the JSP-12 level; systems administrators,
                  systems analysts/ programmers, and user services
                  specialists at the JSP-11 level; data quality analysts at the
                  JSP-9 level; and systems maintenance technicians at
                  the JSP-7 level).        The Conference also approved
                  automation staffing guidelines, but left to the discretion of
                  each court the priority of staffing automation positions.

                 RETENTION OF STAFF UPON THE DEATH
                     OR INCAPACITY OF A JUDGE

           The Judicial Conference revised its policy on retention of staff
1   upon the unanticipated vacancy of a judge or magistrate position (see
    March 1988 session, Con!. Rpt., pp. 32-33), as follows:
I
        Authority to retain staff for 30 days will be given for
        incumbents of positions on chambers staff in instances of
        an unanticipated vacancy of a judge or magistrate position,
        with an extension of up to 60 days upon request of the
        chief judge of the court. Since the need for continued staff
        in these circumstances depends on a number of factors
        characteristic of the court, such as geographical distribution
                                        23
     of court facilities and procedures used in case allocations
     when a judge's or magistrate's position is vacant, upon
     certification by the chief judge of the affected court to the
     Director of the Administrative Office that additional staff
     resources are necessary, one additional period of up to
     120 days beyond the original 90-day period will be allowed.

     Additional staffing needs beyond the 120-day extension
     would be funded from allocations to the circuits for
     emergency temporary law clerks and secretaries, using
     established procedures.

      EMERGENCY DUTY STATION FOR COURT REPORTERS

          As the resutt of a courthouse fire and the unavailability of leased
space, the Judicial Conference approved the use of court reporters'
homes as duty stations in the Middle District of North Carolina, provided
that (a) the exception is temporary; (b) the court will make all reasonable
effort to acquire appropriate space; and (c) during this period, the court
will assure compliance with General Accounting Office rules regarding
the measurability of work performed at home (see GAO Decision No.
B-214453).

                  ADDITIONAL COURT REPORTERS

      The Conference approved an additional court reporter for the
Eastem District of Texas, to be stationed in Tyler.

                SALARY MATCHING FOR LAW CLERKS

         As noted (supra p. 7), effective February 15, 1989, the Executive
Committee reversed an administrative interpretation permitting salary
matching for law clerks based upon employment of less than one year.
After further discussion, the Conference in plenary session unanimously
agreed that, as of July 1, 1989, the salaries of law clerks paid under the
prior administrative interpretation would be rolled back to what they
would have been had "salary matching" principles not been applied.

                         CAREER LAW CLERKS

        In September, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 62-63), the Judicial
Conference raised the ceiling on the salaries of career law clerks to the
JSP-14 level. However, career law clerk status was available only to
"elbow" law clerks. See September 1985 session, Conf. Rpt., p. 48.
        The Judicial Conference approved the extension of the career
law clerk classification to pro se law clerk positions, and directed the
Committee on Judicial Resources to study the issue of extending the
career law clerk classification to staff attorneys. As is the case with all
Judicial Conference actions that require the expenditure of funds, the
approval was contingent upon the availability of funds and subject to
whatever priorities the Conference might establish f o ~the use of
available resources.

           COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
               FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

              SALARIES OF PART-TIME MAGISTRATES

         The Committee had recommended that cost-of-liviqg increases
be granted to part-time magistrates, contingent upon the receipt by
full-time magistrates of pay increases resulting from the
recommendations of the Commission on Executive, Legislative, and
Judicial Salaries. Since salary increases for judicial officers were
disapproved on February 7,1989, this recommendationwas mooted.

               CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

         After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district
courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Conference approved
the following changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time and
part-time magistrate positions. Unless otherwise indicated, these
changes are to be effective when appropriated funds are available.

                             FIRST CIRCUIT

Massachusetts:

1.   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Boston which is due
     to expire on March 14, 1990, for an additional eight-year term; and

2.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Worcester (or Ayer)
     for an additional four-year term and decreased the salary from
     $16,468 to $14,410 per annum, effective with the commencement
     of the new term.
                                THIRD CIRCLIIT

    New Jersey:

    1.   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Newark which is due
         to expire on April 18, 1990, for an additional eight-year term; and

    2.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Asbury Park for an
         additional four-year term and increased the salary from $21,650 to
         $24,702 per annum.

    Pennsylvania, Western:

    1.   Authorized a fourth full-time magistrate position to serve the court
         at Pittsburgh; and

    2.   Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Erie.at
         the current level of $21,650 per annum until further specific action
         on this position.

                               FOLIRTH CIRCUIT

    Virginia, Eastern:

         Continued the full-time magistrate position at Alexandria which is
         due to expire on March 31, 1990, for an additional eight-year term.


I   West Virginia, Northern:

    1.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Morgantown for an
         additional four-year term and increased the salary from $24,702 to
         $28,819 per annum; and

    2.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Wheeling for an
         additional four-year term and increased the salary from $2,264 to
         $4,117 per annum.


I   West Virginia, Southern:



I   1.   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Charleston for an
         additional eight-year term; and
2.   Made no changes in the part-time magistrate position at
     Beckley/Bluefield, and maintained it at the current salary level of
     $41,170 per annum.

                            FlFrH CIRCUIT

Louisiana, Eastern:

     Continued the full-time magistrate position at New Orleans which is
     due to expire on January 3, 1990, for an additional eight-year term.

Louisiana, Western:

     Made no change in the part-time magistrate position at Lafayette
     (or Opelousas), and maintained it at the current salary level of
     $41,170 per annum.

Texas, Northern:

     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate position to serve the
     court at Dallas.

Texas, Southern:

     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Laredo for an
     additional eight-year term.

Texas, Eastern:

1.   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Tyler which is due to
     expire on August 5, 1990, for an additional eight-year term;

2.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Texarkana for an
     additional four-year term and increased the salary from $4,354 to
     $6,176 per annum; and

3.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Sherman for an
     additional four-year term and increased the salary from $3,265 to
     $4,117 per annum.

Texas, Western:

1.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Pecos for an
     additional four-year term at the current salary level, and deferred a
                                    27
          request for a salary increase until the next meeting of the
          Magistrates Committee; and
                                   ,.. .     ,




    2.    Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
          Midland at the current level of $21,650 per annum until further
          specific action on the position.

                                 SIXTH CIRCUIT


I   Kentucky, Western:

          Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Bowling
          Green from $4,354 to $12,351 per annum.


I   Michigan, Western:

          Converted the part-time magistrate position at Marquette to
          full-time status.

    Tennessee, Western:

          Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Jackson
          from $21,650 to $24,702 per annum.

                               SEVENTH CIRCUIT

    Illinois, Northern:

          Authorized two additional full-time magistrate positions to serve the
          court at Chicago.

    Illinois, Central:

          Continued the part-time magistrate position at Rock Island for an
          additional four-year term, but decreased the salary from $10,293 to
          $8,234 per annum, effective upon commencement of the new term.


I                               EIGHTH CIRCUIT


I   Arkansas, Eastern:

          Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at West Memphis,
          effective June 30, 1989.
Arkansas, Western:

     Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Hot
     Springs at the current level of $21,650 per annum until further
     specific action on the position.

                            N l N M CIRCUIT

Arizona:

     lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Yuma
     from $18,748 to $20,585 per annum.

California, Eastern:

1.   Authorized a new full-time magistrate position to serve the court at
     Sacramento;

2.   lncreased the salary of'the full-time magistrate position at Yosemite
     National Park from 6 5 percent, ($53,521 per annum) of the
     maximum salary payable to a full-time magistrate to 70 percent
     ($57,638 per annum) of the maximum salary payable to a full-time
     magistrate;

3.   lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Redding
     from $18,748 to $24,702 per annum; and

4.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Merced for an
     additional four-year term and increased the salary from $5,442 to
     $6,176 per annum.

California, Central:

1.   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Los Angeles which is
     due to expire on February 28, 1990, for an additional eight-year
     term;

2.   lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at San
     Bernardino from $18,748 to $20,585 per annum; and

3.   lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at San
     Luis Obispo from $21,650 to $24,702 per annum.
Idaho:
                                                                               1.
     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Pocatello for an           :1
     additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
     $16,468 per annum.

Washington, Eastern:
                                                                               @


     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate poslion at Yakima        8
     from $18,748 to $24,702 per annum.                                        1
                                                                               #

                           TENTH CIRCUIT

Colorado:

1.   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Denver which is due
     to expire on August 23, 1989, for an additional eight-year term;

2.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Grand Junction for
     an additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
     $41,I70 per annum;

3.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Durango for an
     additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
     $14,410 per annum; and

4.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Monte Vista for an
     additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
     $2,264 per annum.
                                                                           , ,-;.
                                                                              ..
                                                                           ,:L',
                                                                           . ,..
Oklahoma, Western:                                                         ?,.~


                                                                           +,;:<;::
                                                                            is
                                                                           ->

                                                                            i:e,,

     Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at         ";;
     Oklahoma City at the curtent level of $21,650 per annum until         ,
     further specific action on the position.                              !+,>:
                                                                            :>:

                                                                           F4,
                                                                           ,+*
                                                                           ,A%




Wyoming:

1.   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Yellowstone National   18
                                                                           . .,,
     Park for an additional eight-year term at the currently authoriied    gj
     salary level of $45,287 per annum (55 percent of the maximum          $
     salary payable);
     Continued the authority of the clerk of court at Cheyenne to
     perform magistrate duties for an additional four-year term at the
     currently authorized aggregate compensation of a clerk of a large


     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Cody for an
     additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
     $2,264 per annum;

     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Casper for an
     additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
     $2,264 per annum;

     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Lander for an
     addiional four-year term and increased the salary from $3,265 to
     $41 17 per annum; and

     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Green River for an
     additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
     $2,264 per annum.

                         ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Alabama, Middle:

     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Dothan for an
     additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
     $24,702 per annum.

Alabama, Southern:

     Authorized a part-time magistrate position to serve the court at
                                70 per annum.
     Mobile, at a salary of $41,I

Florida, Middle:

1.   Converted the part-time magistrate position at Fort Myers to
     full-time status, subject to review at the Magistrates Committee's
     June 1989 meeting; and

2.   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Fort
     Myers from $28,819 to $41,170 per annum, pending conversion of
     the position to full-time status.
11 I     lql!.!,1!
                      Florida, Southern:
:l;iI ,. 8 i : ' ,
    i   ;;I I

          I>l,',,
                 I
                 I;                                                                                     5



                           Continued the part-time magistrate position at Key West for an
                                                                                                    1
                           additional four-year term and increased the salary from $24,702 to
                           $32,936 per annum.                                                       ii
                                                                                                    I

                      Georgia, Southern:                                                            i
                                                                                                    I

                      1.   Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at            I'

                           Brunswick (or Waycross) at the current level of $21,650 per annum
                           until further specific action on the position; and

                      2.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Dublin (or
                           Statesboro) for an additional four-year term and maintained the
                           salary at the current level of $4,354 per annum until further specific
                           action on the position.

                                     COMMllTEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES

                              The Committee on Pacific Territories reported on its activities in
                      coordinating the Eighth South Pacific Judicial Conference to be held in
                      Hawaii on April 30 through May 3, 1989.

                                   COMMllTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
                                     CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS

                                The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability
                      Orders reported that, since its last report, the Committee had reviewed
                      one order of a circuit council within the review jurisdiction of the
                      Conference, and filed an opinion with the Administrative Office and the
                      clerk of the United States court of appeals for the appropriate circuit.

                           COMMllTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

                                              RULES ENABLING ACT

                              The Rules Enabling Act, title IV of the Judicial Improvements
                      and Access to Justice Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-702), made a
                      number of changes in the authorizing legislation for the implementation
                      of rules of practice and procedure. Among other things, the Act
                      (a) amends 28 U.S.C. 2073 to require that the Judicial Conference
                      prescribe and publish procedures for the consideration of proposed
                      rules; and (b) amends 28 U.S.C. 331 to require the Judicial Conference
                      to review local appellate court rules for consistency with federal law and
                      modify or abrogate any such inconsistent local appellate rules.
        On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
approved amended Procedures for the Conduct of Business by the
Judicial Conference Committees on Rules of Practice and Procedure.
The Conference also delegated its authority under 28 U.S.C. 331 to
review local appellate court rules to the Committee on Rules of Practice
and Procedure, but retained the authoilty to modify or abrogate any local
appellate court rule.

                         APPELLATE RULES

        The Committee submitted to the Conference new Rules 6
("Appeals in bankruptcy cases from final judgments and orders of district
courts or of bankruptcy appellate panels") and 26.1 ("Corporate
Disclosure Statement"), and amendments to Rules 1 ("Scope of rules"),
3 ("Appeal as of right - How taken"), and 28(g) ("Briefs") of the Federal
Rules of Appellate Procedure, together with Committee notes explaining
their purpose and intent.       'The Confereke approved them for
transmission to the Supreme Court for consideration, with the
recommendation that they be approved by the Court and transmitted to
the Congress pursuant to law.

                           CRIMINAL RULES

        The Committee submitted to the Conference proposed
amendments to Rules 11 ("Pleas"), 32 ("Sentence and Judgment"), and
41 ("Search and Seizure") of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
together with Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The
Conference approved the amendments for transmission to the Supreme
Court for consideration, with the recommendationthat they be approved
by the Court and transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law.

                        BANKRLIPTCY RLILES

         The Committee submitted to the Conference a proposed
amendment to Rule 9006(a) ("Time") of the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy
Procedure, together with Committee notes explaining its purpose and
intent. The Conference approved the amendment for transmission to the
Supreme Court for consideration, with the recommendation that it be
approved by the Court and transmitted to the Congress pursuant to law.
11 1   i!~l!:'I'
                                  COMMllTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
;I! ,jliji
'11
      ,!I:~~I!.
                                             COURTROOM SIZES

                            Under the United States Courts Design Guide, approved by the
                   Judicial Conference in March, 1984 (Conf. Rpt., p. 8), the construction of
                   courtrooms larger than specified standards requires Conference
                   approval. The Conference approved the request of the Judicial Council
                   of the First Circuit for the construction of five courtrooms larger than the
                   current standards in new court space being planned for Boston,
                   Massachusetts; the request of the Judicial Council of the Sixth Circuit for
                   the construction of a courtroom larger than the current standards in the
                   U.S. Courthouse in Detroit, Michigan; and the request of the Judicial
                   Council of the Eleventh Circuit for two courtroorns larger than the current
                   standards in new court space in Miami, Florida. The Conference also
                   delegated to the Committee on Space and Facilities the authority to
                   grant exceptions to the current standards for the maximum size of
                   courtrooms, when such requested deviations from the Design Guide
                   have been approved by the appropriate circuit judicial council.

                                    AD HOC COMMllTEE ON CAMERAS
                                         IN THE COLIRTROOM

                             The Ad Hoc Committee on Cameras in the Courtroom was
                   established in October, 1988, Yo review recommendations from other
                   Conference committees on the introduction of cameras in the courtroom,
                   and to take into account the American Bar Association's ongoing review
                   of Canon 3A(7) of its Code of Judicial Conduct, dealing with the subject."
                   The Committee reported that, in its view, the current language of Canon
                   3A(7) of the Code of Conduct for United States Judges is unduly
                   restrictive. The Committee is considering a more flexible approach and
                   hopes to recommend action for the Judicial Conference in September,
                   1989.

                                  FEDERAL COLIRTS STUDY COMMllTEE

                            The Federal Courts Study Committee was created by the
                   Judicial Improvements and Access to Justice Act (Public Law 100-702),
                   to study the role of the federal courts and their relationship to the state
                   courts, the structure of the federal courts, and the workload of the federal
                   courts. The Committee must submit its final report in March, 1990, to the
                   Judicial Conference, the President, Congress, the Conference of Chief
                   Justices, and the State Justice Institute.
     . The Committee reported that three subcommittees have been
appointed and a series of public hearings will be conducted across the
country to solicit input to the process from a broad cross-section of
sources.
                             RESOLUTIONS

         Noting that Judge Wilfred Feinberg had stepped down as chief
judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, the
Judicial Conference adopted the following resolution:

             The Judicial Conference of the United States
     recognizes with appreciation, respect, and admiration

            THE HONORABLE WILFRED FEINBERG

     Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the
     Second Circuit, and member of this Conference, from June
     of 1980 through December of 1988.


              During his career on the federal bench, Judge
     Feinberg has served the Conference in many capacities,
     including membership on the Advisory Committee on Civil
     Rules, the former Subcommittees on Supporting Personnel
     and Judicial Statistics, the Ad Hoc Committee on
     Judgeship Vacancies, and the Committee to Study the Law
     Clerk Selection Process. In 1987, Judge Feinberg served
     as a member of the Committee to Study the Judicial
     Conference. Among the recommendations adopted by the
     Conference was the reconstitution of the Executive
     Committee to provide for a Chairman, appointed by the
     Chief Justice, to act on his behalf as the presiding officer of
     the Conference. The jurisdiction and authority of the
     Executive Committee were amplified to permit the
     Committee to "act as the senior arm of the Conference."
     Judge Feinberg's active participation and demonstrated
     leadership abilities at Judicial Conference sessions and as
     a member of the study group itself pmmpted the Chief
     Justice to select him to serve as the first Chairman of the
     newly constttuted Executive Committee.

           Judge Feinberg has carried out his responsibilities
    to the Conference, the Executive Committee, and the
    Second Circuit with skill and tact. He has set, and
         continues to maintain, a high standard as a dedicated
         public servant and has earned the regard, respect, and
         esteem of his colleagues. While we will miss his wise
         counsel and friendship during the sessions of the Judicial
         Conference, we look forward to many future affiliations.                   ,

              Noting that Judge Harrison L. Winter had stepped down as chief
    judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit due to
    illness, the Judicial Conference resolved to express its appreciation to
    Judge Winter for his many years of service with the Conference and its
    best wishes for his speedy recovery.


I                         MEMORIAL RESOLUTIONS

             Noting the death of Judge Albert Maris, the Conference adopted
    the following resolution:

                The Judicial Conference of the United States notes
         with sadness the death of

               THE HONORABLE ALBERT BRANSON MARIS

         on February 7, 1989, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Born
         in Philadelphia on December 19, 1893, Judge Maris
         obtained his law degree from Temple University in 1918.
         He practiced law in Philadelphia until 1936 when President
         Franklin D. Roosevelt appointed him as a United States
         District Judge in Philadelphia.        In 1938, President
         Roosevelt appointed him to the United States Court of
         Appeals for the Third Circuit. His nearly 51 years as a
         federal appellate judge are unequaled in the nation's
         history.

                 Throughout his tenure, Judge Maris had been
         dedicated to the work of the Conference, earning a
         reputation as a wise and effective spokesman for the
         cause of improving the administration of justice.

                  In 1944, Judge Maris was appointed as Chairman                t

         of the Judicial Conference's Committee to Revise the Laws
         of the United States. In that capacity, which he held until
         1967, he led a renowned group of jurists, practitioners, and
         academic scholars in the recodification of the federal
         judicial and criminal codes. He also worked with Congress
                                       36
     on behatf of the Judicial Conference to shepherd those
     vital recodifications through the legislative branch.

              As the first chairman of the Conference's
     Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, Judge
     Maris served for fourteen years with distinction until
     rehnquishing the chair and retiring from the committee in
     1973. Wih his leadership, the committee modemized
     practice in civil, criminal, and bankruptcy cases;
     standardized appellate procedure; and developed the
     federal rules of evidence.

             Judge Maris was often called upon by the Chief
     Justice for additional duty. For example, during and after
     World War II, Judge Maris served as Chief Judge of the
     Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals as that court
     reviewed wartime emergency .price control legislation.
     Also, the Chief Justice appointed Judge Marii as a special
     master in a number of complex disputes between the
     States over title to off-shore mineral resources and over
     water rights.

             Judge Maris performed exceptional service on
     behalf of the Virgin Islands. He was the author of the
     Organic Act of 1954, was instrumental in the codification of
     the laws of the Virgin Islands into the Virgin Islands Code,
     and authored the consolidation of the separate Islands'
     courts.

             Few judges in history have contributed as much to
     the development of the federal judiciary as did Judge
     Albert Branson Maris. He won the respect and affection of
     everyone with whom he worked and was revered as a
     leader, counselor, and friend. As mentioned in a previous
     occasion before this Conference, "He epitomizes the wise
     Judge."

             The members of the Conference mourn the
     passing of this distinguished and dedicated jurist and
     colleague.

       Noting the death of Judge William J. Campbell, the Conference
adopted the following resolution:
                The Judicial Conference of the United States notes
          with sadness the death of
I     I
                   M E HONORABLE WILLIAM J. CAMPBELL
:I'   I
          on October 19, 1988, after serving as a federal judge for
          just two days short of forty-eight years. Senior Judge
          William J. Campbell of the United States District Court for
          the Northern District of Illinois was born on March 19, 1905,
          in Chicago, Illinois. He received a J.D. degree from Loyola
          University in 1926 and an LL.M. from the same school in
          1928. Admitted to the Illinois Bar, he practiced law in
          Chicago from 1927 to 1938.

                  In February of 1937, he married Marie Agnes
          Cloherty and they raised five daughters and three sons.
          The sons, following in their illustrious father's footsteps, are
          lawyers and the youngest, Thomas, is a member of the
          United States House of Representatives.

                   In 1938, Judge Campbell was appointed by
          President Franklin Delano Roosevelt as United States
          Attorney for the Northem District of Illinois, and two years
          later, at the age of 35, he was appointed by President
          Roosevelt to the United States District Court for the
          Northern District of Illinois. From 1959 until 1970 when he
          took senior status, he was the Chief Judge.

                  During his eleven years as Chief Judge, Judge
          Campbell succeeded in getting approval and the necessary
          appropriations to build two federal buildings in Chicago,
          one of which houses both the Seventh Circuit Court of
          Appeals and the District Court. He also was directly
          responsible for the building of the first Metropolitan
          Correctional Center, which was appropriately named for
          him.

                   Judge Campbell served the Judicial Conference of
          the United States as a member of the Committee on
          Pretrial and Protracted Case Procedures from 1941 to
          1960, during which time he authored the first "Manual on
          Protracted Case Procedure". His work on the Committee
          on Pretrial and Protracted Case Procedures helped create
          the Federal Judicial Center for whom he served as Chair of
                                          38
              various seminars. As Assistant Director of the Center and
              Chair of its Committee on Judicial Education, he started
             work with the Center when it was founded. For fifteen
             years, until November 1985, he attended and chaired all of
             the seminars and workshops, even though in the latter
             years his health required his participation in a wheelchair.
             Quoting Judge Edward J. Devitt: "1is safe to say that the
             great majority of United States district judges now in
             service have been the beneficiaries of his wise leadership
             in learning the art of judging."

                     In 1958, Judge Campbell served as the first District
             Judge Representative of the Seventh Circuit on the Judicial
             Conference of the United States, an assignment he held
             until 1962. He served from 1960 to 1970 as Chairman of
             the Judicial Conference Committee on the Budget, a
             budget that was more than doubled during his
             chairmanship. Commenting on Judge Campbell's devotion
             and service to the federal judiciary, Chief Justice Warren
             Burger specifically praised Judge Campbell for "the
             countless tasks willingly assumed and the exceptional
             measure of vigor, dedication and accomplishment in the
             improvement of the Federal Judicial System."

                      In 1986, Judge Campbell deservedly received the
             prestigious "Edward J. Devitt Distinguished Service to
             Justice Award" for, in the words of the Award, having
             "earned a reputation as an imaginative, innovative,
             courageous and practical jurist."

                Noting the death of Judge James H. Meredith, the Conference
         adopted the following resolution:

                    The Judicial Conference of the United States notes
             with sadness the death of

28   I
                     M E HONORABLE JAMES H. MEREDITH
     I       Senior United States District Judge for the Eastem District
             of Missouri.

                     Judge Meredith served his country for over a
             quarter of a century, commencing his career as an
             Assistant Prosecuting Attorney for New Madrid County,
      Missouri, from 1939-1942. From 1949-1950, he was Legal
      Secretary to the Governor of Missouri, and from
      1950-1952, he served as Chief Counsel for the Division of
      Insurance of Missouri. Judge Meredith was appointed
      United States District Judge for the Eastern District of
      Missouri on March 17, 1962. During his tenure on the
      bench, Judge Meredith represented the circuit on several
      key Judicial Conference Committees including the
      Subcommittee on Judicial Improvements from 1971-1981,
      and the Executive Committee from 1976-1979. From
      1974-1979, he was the circuit's district judge representative
     to the Judicial Conference of the United States, and from
      1979-1981, he served as a judge of the United States
      Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. In 1982, he was
      appointed to the Committee to Review Circuit Council
     Conduct and Disability Orders, of which he was a member
     until 1987. In 1985, Judge Meredith was appointed to
     serve on the Committee on the Bicentennial of the
     Constitution. Reappointed in 1987, he was a member of
     the Committee at the time of his death. Judge Meredith
     served as Chief Judge from January 5, 1971, to August 31,
     1979, when he elected senior status.

               In addition to his valued service to the Eighth
     Circuit, Judge Meredith's contribution will be remembered
     in his intercircuit assignments in Oklahoma, Arizona,
     Illinois, Washington, Puerto Rico, Indiana, and Mississippi,
     and the Ninth Circuit, from 1972-1982.

              Judge Meredith was a man of great physical and
     professional stature. He was a patriot who was fiercely
     loyal to the court and to his country. He was a fair and
     humble man. He was a mover and a pusher but never
     expected more from others than he did from himself. His
     presence on the federal bench will be missed.

         Noting the death of Judge Philip Pratt, the Conference adopted
the following resolution:

            With great sadness, the Judicial Conference of the
     United States notes the death of
           THE HONORABLE PHII-IP PRAlT

of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Michigan on February 7, 1989, after a long and painful
illness. Judge Pratt sewed as a member of the Judicial
Conference from September 1987 until one month before
his death.

         Philip Pralt was born in Pontiac, Michigan on
July 14, 1924, the son of Greek immigrants. He received
his early education in the Pontiac public schools and
earned a scholarship to the University of Michigan in the
fall of 1942. Army sewice during World War II disrupted
his higher education, however. From 1943 until 1946,
Judge Pratt sewed in the Office of Strategic Services
where he earned the Bronze Star for, heroism for his
service behind enemy lines in China.

         After the war Judge Pratt returned to the University
of Michigan and received his LL.B. in 1950. He sewed as
an Assistant Prosecuting Attorney for Oakland County,
Michigan in 1951-1952, whereupon he engaged in private
law practice in Pontiac until 1963 when he was appointed
Circuit Judge of the Michigan Sixth Circuit, a state trial
court of general jurisdiction.

        Judge Pratt was appointed to the U.S. Distrid
Court for the Eastern District of Michigan by President
Nixon on December 1, 1970; he became Chief Judge of
that court on March 1, 1986. He sewed with distinction as
a member of the Judicial Conference Advisory Committee
on Civil Rules from 1978 to 1984 and as a member of the
Sixth Circuit Judicial Council from 1986 to 1989.

         Judge Philip Pratt represented the very best values
which the nation has come to expect of its federal judges.
A man of the highest principles and unquestioned integrity,
he was blessed with a superior intellect and remained a
student of the law throughout his long and distinguished
judicial career. Yet he was a kind and gentle man who had
a great sensitivity for human freedom and dignity.

        The members of the Judicial Conference convey
their deepest sympathy to Judge Pratt's widow, Mary, and
                             41
     to their three children. Peter Philip Pratt, Laura Susan                          ,
     Pratt, and Kathleen Mary Stirby, and ask that this
     resolution be sent to them in recognition of our respect and
     esteem.

                               FUNDING

         All of the foregoing recommendations which require the
expenditure of funds for implementation were approved by the
Conference subject to the availability of funds, and subject to whatever
priorities the Conference might establish for the use of available
resources.
                                                                               I (

                 RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION                                  1




       The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters          I       i
considered at this session where necessary for legislative or
administrative action.
                                                                           I       I




April 14, 1989
                                                        V
                                Presiding                                      r
