          JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            September 20, 1989



        The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on
September 20, 1989, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
United States issued under 28 U.S.C. 331. The Chief Justice presided
and the following members of the Conference were present:

First Circuit:

           Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
           Chief JudgeFrank H. Freedman, District of
                   Massachusetts

Second Circuit:

           Chief Judge James L. Oakes
           Chief Judge Charles L. Brieant, Southern District of
                   New York

Third Circuit:

           Chief Judge John J. Gibbons
           Judge William J. Nealon, Jr., Middle District of
                   Pennsylvania

Fourth Circuit:

           Chief Judge Sam J. Ervin, Ill
           Judge Frank A. Kaufman, District of Maryland

Fifih Circuit:
                                                      . ..
           Chief Judge Charles Clark
           Judge Barefoot Sanders, Northern District of Texas

Sixth Circuit:

           Chief Judge Albert J. Engel
           Chief Judge James P. Churchill, Eastern District of
                   Michigan
                                    45
Seventh Circul:

          Chief Judge William J. Bauer
          Judge Sarah Evans Barker, Southern District of Indiana

Eighth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Donald P. Lay
          Chief Judge John F. Nangle, Eastern District of
                  Missouri

Ninth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Alfred T. Goodwin
          Judge Robert F. Peckham, Northern District of
                  California

Tenth Circuit:

          Chief Judge William J. Holloway
          Chief Judge Earl E. OIConnor, District of Kansas

Eleventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge Paul H. Roney
          Chief Judge Sam C. Pointer, Jr., Northern District of
                  Alabama

District of Columbia Circuit:

          Chief Judge Patricia M. Wald
          Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., District of
                  Columbia

Federal Circuit:

          Chief Judge HowardT. Markey

Court of InternationalTrade:

          Chief Judge Edward D. Re
1 .
i                 Retired Associate Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr.; Circuit Judges
E        Richard S. Amold, Edward R. Becker, Douglas Ginsburg, Cynthia Hall,
!        Stephanie K. Seymour, Walter K. Stapleton, and Robert S. Vance;
i
I        Senior Circuit Judge Frank M. Coffin; Distrii Judge Richard M. Bilby;
I
         and Senior District Judge Edward J. Devitt attended all or some of the
         sessions of the Conference. Circuit Executives Vincent Flanagan (First
L        Circuit), Steven Flanders (Second Circuit), John P. Hehrnan (Third
         Circuit), Samuel W. Phillips (Fourth Circuit), Lydia Comberrel (Fifth
2;
i        Circuit), James A. Higgins (Sixth Circuit), Collins T. Fiizpatrick (Seventh
     -   Circuit), June L. Boadwine (Eighth Circuit), Gregory B. Walters (Ninth
         Circuit), Eugene Murret (Tenth Circuit), Norman E. Zoller (Eleventh
         Circuit), and Linda Finkelstein (District of Columbia Circuit) were also
I        present.

                  Congressman Robert W. Kastenmeier, Chairman of the House
         Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the
         Administration of Justice, attended the Conference briefly and spoke on
         matters pending in the Congress of interest to the judiciary. The
         Attorney General of the United States, Dick Thornburgh, and Solicitor
         General Kenneth Starr, addressed the Conference on matters of mutual
         interest to the Department of Justice and the Conference.

                 L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
         United States Courts, attended the sessions of the Conference, as did
         James E. Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General
         Counsel; Robert E. Feidler, Legislative and Public Affairs Officer;
         Karen K. Siegel, Chief, Office of the Judicial Conference Secretariat; and
         David A. Sellers, Public Information Officer. Judge John C. Godbold,
         Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also attended the sessions of the
         Conference, as did Lawrence H. Averill, Jr., Administrative Assistant to
         the Chief Justice.

                             REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR
                           OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
                           OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS

                 The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
         Courts, L. Ralph Mecham, submitted to the Conference the Annual
         Report of the Director for the year ended June 30, 1989. The
         Conference authorized the Director to release the Annual Report
         immediately in preliminary form and to revise and supplement the final
         printed edition.
                      JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

               Mr. Mecham reported that during the year ended June 30,1989,
      the number of cases appealed to the 12 regional courts of appeals rose
      nearly six percent to 39,734, due to a dramatic increase of more than
      2,000 in appeals of criminal cases. The new sentencing guidelines,
      which for the first time make the sentence itself subject to appeal,
      contributed substantially to the increase in filings; clerks of appeals
      courts reported 1,234 appeals concerning sentences only. Dispositions
      increased four percent this year to a record 37,372, but still remained
      well below the level of filings. As a result, the pending caseload
      increased nine percent to 30,006 by year's end, the highest level ever.
      Filings in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit climbed nine
      percent to 1,417, primarily due to an increase in appeals from the Merit
      Systems Protection Board. Terminations also increased by eight
      percent this year to 1,440, resulting in a reduction in the pending
      caseload for the second straight year, down to 636 appeals.

                In the United States district courts, the number of civil filings
      declined three percent during 1989, to 233,293 cases. The decrease
      was characteriied by a drop in U.S. plaintiff filings, particularly cases
      filed for recovery of overpayment of veterans' benefits. In cases with the
      United States as defendant, social security claims also continued to
      decline. reaching their lowest level since 1981. The number of civil
      cases disposed of decreased by two percent to 234,980, the lowest
      number of terminations since 1983; however, dispositions outnumbered
      filings, so the pending civil caseload fell one percent, to 242,436.

              Criminal case filings increased three percent during 1989,
      following a similar increase last year. The 45,995 filings represented a
      caseload of 80 cases per judgeship, up from 78 per judgeship last year.
      The increase in criminal filings is directly attributable to the focus on
      drug-related crimes. Drug cases have increased more than 15 percent
      each of the last two years, while non-drug related cases have actually
      declined. Criminal case terminations increased two percent in 1989 to
. .
      42,810, after a slight decline last year, while pending criminal cases
      continued to climb. The pending criminal caseload reached 30,907 at
      year's end, 11 percent more than were pending at the end of 1988.

              Filings in the U.S. bankruptcy courts continued to increase to
      record levels in 1989. 'The 642,993 petitions filed this year were eight
      percent above the number filed in 1988. Despite the overall increase,
      business petitions declined for the second straight year, dropping nine
                                          48
i
\   "
i
1       percent to 62,534, the lowest level since 1984. Dispositions declined by
        two percent to 577,848, following last year's unprecedented increase of
1
        22 percent, but still remained 20 percent above the total recorded for
        1987. The pending caseload, however, rose to another record high of
,       879,340, up eight percent from December 31,1988.
1


                Mr. Mecham also reported that as of September 20, 1989, there
        were 14 vacancies among the 168 judgeship positions authorized for the
I
        United States courts of appeals, 38 vacancies among the 575 authorized
I
        judgeships in the United States district courts, and one vacancy on the
        Court of International Trade.

                        REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE
                           FEDERAL JLlDlClAL CENTER

                 The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Judge John C.
        Godbold, reported to the Conference on behalf of the Judicial Center on
        the following highlights of the fiscal year 1989:

                 o Title IV of the Judicial Improvements and Access to
                   Justice Act (Public Law 100-702) made four changes
                   to the Center's organic statute. It made the Center the
                   historical office for the federal judiciary; authorized the
                   Center to provide educational services to non-judicial
                   branch employees where such programs would
                   improve the operation of the courts; established the
                   Federal Judicial Center. Foundation to receive gifts to
                   enhance and facilitate the Center's work; and formally
                   recognized the office of Deputy Director.

                 o   Two new conference programs were initiated, for all
                     U.S. appellate judges and for all U.S. chief district
                     judges.

                 o   The Judicial Center continued a concentrated effort to
                     refine its educational programs and broaden the
                     content of its offerings. Particular effort continues to
                     be devoted to helping the courts adapt to the
                     requirements of guideline sentencing.
         o At the request of the Budget Committee of the Judicial
           Conference, the Judicial Center prepared the first
           comprehensive analysis of cost savings that would
           result from changes in diversity of citizenship
           jurisdiction. The Center is also devoting significant
           staff time to district and bankruptcy court time studies
           at the request of Conference committees. These
           studies will provide key information for use in
           estimating judgeship needs during the next decade.

          o A centralized training academy for probation and
            pretrial services officers has been established.

          o Testing has begun of a variety of public access
            facilities the Center has developed to allow law firms,
            agencies, and the public at large to have easy access
            to electronic court databases of case docket
            information.

                       EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

       The Executive Committee reported that, since the last session of
the Conference in March, 1989, the Executive Committee had
addressed the following matters on the Conference's behalf:

                             JUDICIAL PAY

          In March, 1989 (Conf. Rpt., p. 19), the Judicial Conference
unanimously agreed to recommend that Congress immediately increase
judicial salaries by 30 percent and couple the increases kith periodic
cost-of-living adjustments. The Executive Committee approved a draft
bill implementing that recommendation.

           APPROPRIAl'IONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1989

         On May 1, 1989, the Executive Committee approved a spending
plan for the appropriation "Salaries and Expenses" for the third quarter of
the fiscal year 1989. A fourth quarter spending plan was approved on
July 5, 1989.
                   FEDERAL ETHICS LAW REFORM

        At its March 1989 session (Conf. Rpt., p. 12), the Conference
referred to the Executive Committee for action, a March 9, 1989 report
and recommendations of the President's Commission on Federal Ethics
Law Reform. After consultation with the Committees on the Codes of
Conduct and Judicial Ethics, the Executive Committee approved
extensive comments on the report and recommendations for transmittal
to the President, Commission Chair (and retired Judge) Malcolm Wilkey,
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, and others. It was unanimously
agreed that, with limited exceptions, the recommendations would have a
serious and deleterious impact on the federal judiciary if enacted into
law. See also "Federal Ethics Law Reform", -  infra pp. 55-56.

                      PUERTO RlCO LEGISLATION

         The Executive Committee was asked to fashion a judicial branch
response to an urgent request by Senator J. Bennett Johnston,
Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, for
comments on S. 710, 711, and 712, 101st Congress, three bills dealing
with the status of Puerto Rico. Among other things, the bills w ~ u l d
permit or require the use of the Spanish language in the United States
District Court for Puerto Rico.

          In consultation with the Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction
and the chairs of the Committees on Judicial Improvements and Criminal
Law and Probation Administration, the Executive Committee approved a
statement of Conference views which was transmitted to Chairman
Johnston on July 5, 1989. The statement addressed the Spanish
language problem; a requirement for transfer of certain cases to the
District of Columbia; proposed restrictions on the appointment of federal
judges to serve in Puerto Rico; the applicability of federal statutes and
regulations to Puerto Rim; the assignment of various labor relations
matters; and other issues of Puerto Rico law.

                      MISCELLANEOUSACTIONS

         The      Executive     Committee        approved          a   juror
qualification~summonsform for use in the experimental testing of a
one-step qualification and summoning procedure; authorized the Judicial
Resources Committee to grant exceptions to salary rollbacks for law
clerks in certain circumstances (see March 1989 session, Conf. Rpt.,
p. 24); agreed to request that Congress approve the experimental use of
comprehensive resident lists, in lieu of voter lists, for filling the master
                                     51
jury wheel in the District of Massachusetts; agreed to request that
Congress delete the current appropriations language restriction on the
appointment of staff attorneys in the courts of appeals, and substiiute
report language permitting the Judicial Conference to approve staff
attorney positions utilizing a formula based on authorized judgeships and
workload; approved for transmittal to Congress draft appropriations
language dealing with the Judicial Conference's hosting of the Fifth
 International Appellate Judges Conference in 1990 (see September
1987 session, Conf. Rpt., p. 100); approved a report for Congress on the
actual costs of filing actions in the district courts of the United States, as
required by Public Law 100-702, section 1012(b); and endorsed a
project by the Director of the Administrative Office to establish one or
more Administrative Office support operations outside of the
Washington, D.C. metropolitan area.

           COMMrlTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

                               RESOLUTION

         In recognlion of the 50th anniversary of the creation of the
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts, and the service provided by the
agency to the courts, the Judicial Conference adopted the following
resolution:

          The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
          with appreciation and thanks,

                       The Administrative Office
                      of the United States Courts

          on the occasion of its 50th Anniversary of dedicated
          service to the Federal Judiciary.

          The Administrative Office was established by Act of
          Congress in 1939. As the responsibilities of the courts
          have grown over the years, so have those of the agency.
          With limited staff and funds, the Administrative Office has
          provided those services essential to the sound operation
          of the United States Courts.

          We look fotward to many more years of rewarding
          association with the employees of the Administrative
          Off ice.
           COMMrlTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                    BANKRUPTCYSYSTEM

                       ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS

          In order to respond to a sharp and steady increase in bankruptcy
filings, the Conference voted to recommend that Congress authorize one
additional bankruptcy judgeship for the Middle District of Tennessee.

           ADDITIONAL DUTY STATIONS AND PLACES OF
           HOLDING COURT FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

         Public Law 100-587 authorized seven 'additional bankruptcy
judgeship positions (one each in the Eastern and Western Districts of
Texas, the Eastern District of Kentucky, and the Districts of Alaska,
Arizona, Colorado, and Kansas). In March, 1989 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 10-11),
the Judicial Conference designated the official duty stations for five of
the judgeships, and at this session, the Conference designated
Lexington, Kentucky, as the official duty station for the additional
bankruptcy judgeship authorized for the Eastern District of Kentucky.
Since no recommendation has been made for the District of Arizona by
the Judicial Council of the Ninth Circuit, the designation for that district
will be made at a later date.

        At the request of the Judicial Council of the Second Circuit, the
Judicial Conference designated Mayville as a place of holding
bankruptcy court for the Western District of New York and eliminated
Dunkirk and Jamestown as places of holding court for the same district.

                 COMMITTEE ON THE BICEN'TENNIAL
                     OF THE CONSTITUTION

                COMMEMORATIVE COIN LEGISLATION

        On recommendation of the Committee on the Bicentennial of the
Constitution, the Conference endorsed the enactment of legislation
requiring the issuance of gold and silver coins to commemorate the
Bicentennial of the Bill of Rights and the role of the federal judiciary in
interpretingthe Bill of Rights.
                    COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

                 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1990

       The Judicial Conference authorized the Director of the
Administrative Office to submit to the Congress a request for
supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year 1990 for "pay costs". 'The
Conference also authorized the Director to amend the reauest because
of any new legislation, action taken by the Judicial conference, or for
any other reason the Director considers necessary and appropriate.

          APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1991

         As was the case with regard to the budget submission for the
fiscal year 1990 (September 1989 session, Conf. Rpt., p. 64), the
Judicial Conference agreed to the submission of a less than fully funded
budget request for the fiscal year 1991. This action was based on the
Budget Committee's judgment that the FY 1991 request should exceed
FY 1990 funding levels by no more than nineteen percent, whereas a
fully funded request for FY 1991 would represent an increase of 24
percent over the estimated allowance for FY 1990. The amount agreed
to, $1,854,895,000 for the Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other
Judicial Services, represents an increase of approximately 17.5 percent,
and was the unanimous recommendation of the Budget 'Committee and
"line" committee chairs.

        The Director of the Administrative Office was authorized to
amend the budget estimates because of new legislation, action taken by
the Judicial Conference, or for any other reason the Director considers
necessary and appropriate.

                    BUDGET DECENTRALIZATION

         In September, 1987 (Conf. Rpt., p. 73, the Judicial Conference
approved implementation of a five-court, three-year pilot budget
execution decentralization project. Since the evaluation of the project by
the National Academy of Public Administration will be completed only
after the third year of the pilot, the Conference concurred in the
Committee's recommendation to extend the program for one additional
year (through the fiscal year 1991), and also concurred in a
recommendation to restrict the number of courts participating in the pilot
to the present five courts.
                                    54
                COMMllTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

         The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that, since its last
report, the Committee had received 30 written inquiries and issued 28
advisory responses. The Chairman also responded to 43 telephone
inquiries that did not require reference to the Committee. 'The
Committee will publish three advisory opinions, (a) on the use of
chambers, resources, and staff for law-related activities; (b) on the
circumstances in which a sitting judge may explore the possibility of
post-resignation employment; and (c) on the propriety of law clerks
receiving bonuses and reimbursement for relocation and bar-related
expenses from future employers prior to the completion of their
clerkships.

                   FEDERAL ETHICS LAW REFORM

        On March 29, 1989, the Judicial Conference advised the
President that, with limited exceptions, the recommendations of the
President's Commission on Federal Ethics Law Reform would have a
serious and deleterious impact on the federal judiciary if enacted into
law.     See "Federal Ethics Law Reform", supra p. 51.             The
recommendations have been introduced in the 10lst Congress as
S. 765 and H.R. 2337, the proposed "Governmentwide Ethics Act of
1989". It was the unanimous view of the Conference that the Act as
applied to the judiciary is ill-conceived and fundamentally flawed
because it is unnecessary, a waste of resources, and unworkable in its
"governmentwide" approach. Accordingly, the Conference voted to
communicate to Congress its strong opposition to these bills insofar as
they relate to the federal judiciary.

         Unlike the Governmentwide Ethics Act, the proposed
"Post-Employment Restrictions Act of 1989" (H.R. 2267, 101st
Congress) does not purport to regulate the conduct of officers and
employees of the judiciary while they are in office. It would, however,
affect former judges and judicial employees who received compensation
at or above the GS 17 level, by making it a crime (a) to be involved
during his or her lifetime in a matter on which the former judge or
employee worked while employed in the judiciary (the "lifetime ban");
and (b) during the year immediately following his or her leaving office, to
appear before the court on.which he or she served (or sat by designation
more than 60 days during the last two years in office) (the "one-year
cooling off period"). The Governmentwide Ethics Act of 1989 contains a
similar "one-year cooling off period" restriction. The Justice Department
                                    55
has recommended that the "cooling off" restriction be extended to
include any court on which the judge sat by designation within two years
prior to leaving the bench.

         With the exceptions noted below, enactment of H.R. 2267 would
not have a detrimental effect on the judiciary. The Conference agreed,
however, to communicate to Congress the recommendation that,
because of the nature of their work, the one-year "cooling off" period
contained in the Post-Employment Restrictions Act and the
Governmentwide Ethics Act should be amended to exclude from the
restriction Federal Public Defenders, United States Magistrates, and
United States Bankruptcy Judges. The Conference also opposed the
Department of Justice's proposal to extend the no-contact period to
include any court on which a judge had sat by designation during the two
years immediately prior to leaving the federal bench.

                 COMMITTEE ON COURT SECURITY

         The Committee on Court Security reported on its efforts in
reviewing and monitoring policy for the security of the courts and the
judiciary. The Committee is studying such matters as off-site security
arrangements and proposed firearms legislation.

                 COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                AND PROBATION ADMINISTRATION

                 FEDERAL VICTIM'S SERVICES AND
                  PROTECTION COMPLIANCE ACT

        Sections 103 and 104 of the proposed Federal Victim's Services
and Protection Compliance Act (H.R. 1303, 10lst Congress) provide that
the Attorney General is to rate all law enforcement officers (including
probation and pretrial services officers) on their compliance with the
Victim and Witness Protection Act of 1982, and the Victims of Crime Act
of 1984, and will set standards to govern services to victims and
witnesses. Since no problems have arisen concerning the probation
service in this area and additional supervision would be duplicative of
ongoing court activity, the Conference voted to oppose these provisions.

                SENTENCING GLIIDEI-IN ES REPORT

        The Conference approved a report for transmittal to the United
States Sentencing Commission on the operation of the Commission's
guidelines, as required by 28 U.S.C. 994(0).
                      CRIMINAL FINE COLLECTION

         Section 7121 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, Public Law
100-690, amended the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C.
10601(c)) to provide that the first $2,200,000 in excess of $125,000,000
deposited in the Crime Victims Fund each fiscal year through FY 1991
shall be available to the judicial branch for administrative costs of fine
monitoring and collection. The ceiling is raised to $150,000,000 for the
fiscal years 1992 through 1994, and then "sunsets". Thus, under
present law, the courts receive funding only if payments exceed the
ceiling and, even then, the amount available is capped at $2,200,000,
which is less than is needed by the judiciary to carry out its
administrative obligations.

          The Committee on Criminal Law and Probation Administration
recommended, and the Conference agreed, that in lieu of the existing
statutory scheme, legislation should be sought to provide the judiciary
with five percent of the statutory ceiling specified in the Crime Victims
Fund, to be used to cover the costs of processing fines, assessments,
restitution, interest and penalties, and the cost of monitoring fines by the
probation system.

                  PRISON INDUSTRIES PREFERENCE

         A Senate-approved amendment to S. 1352 (10lst Congress), a
bill to authorize appropriations for the Department of Defense, would
remove the Federal Prison Industries, Inc.'s preference in sales to the
Department of Defense. Upon being advised that this amendment would
effectively remove the primary market outlet for prison-produced goods,
and could therefore have a deleterious impact on the nation's criminal
justice system, the Conference voted to oppose the amendment.

                COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES

                   APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

        The Committee on Defender Services reported that in the first
half of the fiscal year 1989, approximately 31,500 persons were
represented under the Criminal Justice Act, compared to approximately
30,000 in the first half of the fiscal year 1988, an increase of five percent.
Of these 31,500 persons represented, 17,096, or 54.3 percent, were
represented by federal public and community defender organizations.
                    BUDGET REQUESTS -
          FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

          The Committee advised the Conference that it had approved
supplemental budget requests.for federal public defender organizations
for the fiscal year 1990 as follows:

         Arizona
         California (C)
         California (E)
         Colorado
         Hawaii
         Illinois (C & S) and
           Missouri (E)
         Kansas
         Louisiana (E)
         Maryland
         Missouri (W)
         North Carolina (E)
         New Jersey
         New Mexico
         Oregon
         Tennessee (M)
         Tennessee (W)
         Texas (S)
         Virgin Islands
         Washington (W) and Alaska
         West Virginia (S)

                   Total                     $3,060,769


       The Committee also approved budget requests for the fiscal
year 1991 for the federal public defender organizations as follows:

         Alaska
         Arizona
         California (C)
         California (E)
         California (N)
         Colorado
         Connecticut
         District of Columbia
         Florida (M)
         Florida (N)
         Florida (S)
         Hawaii
         Illinois (C & S) and
            Missouri (E)
         Kansas
         Louisiana (E)
         Massachusetts
         Maryland
         Minnesota
         Missouri (W)
         Nevada
         North Carolina (E)
         New Jersey
         New Mexico
         Ohio (N)
         Oklahoma (E, N & W)
         Oregon
         Pennsylvania (M)
         Pennsylvania (W)
         Puerto Rico
         South Carolina
         Tennessee (M)
         Tennessee (W)
         Texas (N)
         Texas (S)
         Texas (W)
         Virgin Islands
         Washington (W)
         West Virginia (S)

                    Total


                   GRANT REQUESTS -
     TRADITIONAL COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

         The Committee advised the Conference that it had approved
supplemental sustaining grants for the fiscal year 1990 for the following
traditional community defender organizations:
    Federal Defender Program, Inc., Illinois (N)           $ 82,712      =




    Legal Aid & Defender Assn. of Detroit, Federal Def.
     Div., Michigan (E)                                    $   42,974

   The Legal Aid Society of New York, Federal Def.
    Services Unit, New York (E & S)                        $ 567,998

    Defender Assn. of Philadelphia,
     Federal Court Div., Pennsylvania (E)                  $   65,399

                    Total                                  $ 759,083


         The Committee also approved sustaining grants for the fiscal
year 1991 for the six traditional community defender organizations, as
follows:

    Federal Defenders of San Diego, Inc.,
     California (S)                                       $ 3,045,362

   Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
    Georgia (N)

   Federal Defender Program, Inc.,
    Illinois (N)

   Legal Aid & Defender Assn. of Detroit,
    Federal Def. Div., Michigan (E)                       $ 1,186,764

   The Legal Aid Society of New York,
     Federal Def. Services Unit, New York (E & S)         $ 4,496,371

    Defender Assn. of Philadelphia, Federal Court
      Div., Pennsylvania (E)                              $ 1,237,837

                    Total                                 $12,345,234
              DEAM PENALTY RESOURCE CENTEW
             COMMLINITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

        The Committee advised the Conference that it had approved
sustaining grants for the fiscal year 1990 for 13 death penalty resource
center/comrnunity defender organizations as follows:

    Alabama Capital Case Resource Center                  $ 387,060

    Arizona Capital Representation Project                $ 222,578

    California Appellate Project                          $ 1,492,410

    Georgia Appellate Practice and Educational
     Resource Center                                      $ 410,400

    Kentucky Capital Litigation Resource Center           $ 203,307

    Loyola Death Penalty Resource Center                  $ 250,134

    Mississiw' Capital Defense Resource Center            $ 315,820

    Missouri Capital Punishment Resource Center           $ 305,560

    North Carolina Death Penalty Resource Center          $ 206,260

    Capital Post-Conviction Project of the Oklahoma
     Appellate Public Defender System                     $   606,801

    South Carolina Death Penalty Resource Center          $   166,954

    Capital Representation Resource Center of
     Tennessee                                            $ 355,884

    Texas Appellate Practice and Educational
     Resource Center                                      $1,005,881

                    Total                                 $5,929,049



       The Committee also approved sustaining grants for the fiscal
year 1991 for the 13 centers as follows:
   Alabama Capital Case Resource Center

   Ariiona Capital Representation Project

   California Appellate Project

   Georgia Appellate Practice and
    Educational Resource Center

   Kentucky Capital Litigation Resource Center

   Loyola Death Penalty Resource Center

    Mississippi Capital Defense Resource Center

    Missouri Capital Punishment Resource Center

    North Carolina Death Penalty Resource Center

    Capital Post-Conviction Project of the Oklahoma
     Appellate Public Defender System

    South Carolina Death Penalty Resource Center

    Capital Representation Resource Center of
     Tennessee

    Texas Appellate Practice and Educational
      Resource Center

                   Total                                 $7,871,710


                             GUIDELINES

        Noting that the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (Public Law
100-690) had effectively repealed attorney hourly compensation rates
and case compensation maximums which would othewise apply in
death penalty cases, and concerned about the lack of standards for use
by judicial officers in setting attorney compensation for death penalty
representation, the Sudicial Conference in March, 1989 (Conf. Rpt., pp.
15-16), asked each circuit, through its judicial council, t o consider
recommending a range or guideline with respect to attorney
representation in such cases. The Conference requested circuit councils
                                    62
         to advise the Committee of any action taken, so that the Committee
     .   might recommend a model or uniform fee policy in this area.


t'
1
                 After reviewing the circuit recommendations, the Conference
         approved the Committee's proposed amendment to the Guidelines for
i        the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act to establish a range of $75
i        to $125 per hour for compensation for court-appointed attorneys in
I        federal capital pmsecutions and federal habeas corpus death penalty
i
Fi
         cases.

                The Committee also informed the Conference that it had
r        approved the following additional amendments to the Guidelines:

                   1.   An amendment to paragraph 3.16 [redesignated as
                        paragraph 6.03 C] concerning the conditions under
                        which a death penalty resource center may use grant
                        funds to furnish services in a district wahout such a
                        center, and a new Appendix I, concerning
                        qualification standards for death penalty expert
                        consultant panels.

                   2.   An amendment to paragraph 3.12 concerning
                        transcripts of other than federal court proceedings.

         In addition, the Committee approved a comprehensive set of revisions to
         the Guidelines to reflect technical changes required to conform to the
         Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, to consolidate provisions relating to the
         appointment and compensation of counsel in death penalty cases, and
         to reorganize the Guidelines to make them easier to read.

                   COMMIlTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION

                             REPEAL OF REMAND ORDERS

                  The.Judicial Conference of the Ninth Circuit transmitted to the
         Judicial Conference a resolution proposing repeal of 28 U.S.C. 1447(d),
         which makes orders remanding a case to the state court from which it
         was removed non-appealable. It was the view of the Committee on
         Federal-StateJurisdiction that repeal of section 1447(d) would add to the
         burdens of the federal courts, generate unwarranted delays through
         interlocutory appeals, and disrupt the existing balance between state
         and federal courts. The Conference agreed, and declined to endorse
         the proposal.
             PARENTAL KIDNAPPING PREVENTIONACT

         In Thompson v. Thompson, 108 S.Ct. 513 (1988), the Supreme
Court ruled that the Parental Kidnapping Prevention Act, 28 U.S.C.
1738A, does not create a federal cause of action to resolve conflicts
between states on the issue of jurisdiction over child custody disputes.
The American Bar Association has proposed that Congress overturn this
holding.

        The Judicial Conference opposed the overruling of Thompson v.
Thompson. Such legislation would constitute an unnecessary expansion
of federal jurisdiction into areas in which federal courts have no expertise
and could result in unnecessary federal-state conflicts.

           COMMITTEE ON INTERClRCLlrr ASSIGNMENTS

          The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during
the period February 1, 1989, through August 1, 1989, the Committee
had recommended 48 intercircuit assignments to be undertaken by 41
judges. Of this number, 13 were senior circuit judges, four were active
circuit judges, 12 were senior district judges, nine were active district
judges, one was a senior judge of the Court of lnternational Trade, and
two were active judges of the Court of lnternationalTrade.

       Of the 48 assignments approved, 20 judges undertook 25
assignments to the courts of appeals, and 22 judges undertook 23
assignments to the district courts.

      COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL APPELLATE JUDGES
                  CONFERENCE OF 1990

          The Committee on the lnternational Appellate Judges
Conference reported on its progress in planning and raising funds for the
lnternational Appellate Judges Conference in Washington, D.C.,
September 11-14, 1990. The program has been preliminarily approved,
and invitations have been sent out by the Chief Justice to all state and
territorial chief justices.

               COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

                     SENIOR JUDGE LEGISLATION

        Congressman Robert Kastenmeier, Chairman of the House
Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the
    Administration of Justice, has intmduced legislation in the 101st
    Congress affecting senior judges. The bill, H.R. 1930, would allow all
    senior judges to receive costof-living adjustments (COLAS) implemented
    for other executive level officers, but would set up a certification process
    that would prohibi senior judges from receiving non-COLA increases
    unless they met certain minimum workload requirements, i.e., 25 percent
    for case-related judicial duties, and full-time work foradministrative
    functions. The two types of duties could not be aggregated and, once a
    senior judge failed to be certified for non-COLA salary increases, that
    judge could not again qualify for them.
t
[            The Conference determined that H.R. 1930 (or any similar
I
I   proposal imposing minimum work requirements that must be met in
    order for senior judges to receive salary increases) inevitably creates
    unfortunate disincentives and is therefore undesirable in principle. In the
    event Congress were to enact this type of legislation despite the
    judiciary's reservations, the Conference voted to recommend the
    following revisions in the present text of H.R. 1930:

              1.   Add a "grandfather" provision to make the bill
                   inapplicable to all federal judges in office as of the
                   date of enactment or, at a minimum, make it
                   inapplicable to all judges who have assumed senior
                   status as of the date of enactment.

              2.   Redefine the workload requirements and delegate to
                   the Judicial Conference and circuit judicial councils
                   the responsibility for defining and measurirrg judicial
                   duties meeting the requirements.

              3.   Allow senior judges more flexibility in meeting the
                   minimum workload requirements over . time and
                   notwithstanding occasional breaks in service by
                   providing for reentry into judicial work.

                            JUDICIAL BENEFITS

            The Conference approved a resolution encouraging Congress to
    revise the Federal Employees Health Benefit program to introduce an
    element of competition, and approved the designation of a
    representative to work with the Office of Personnel Management in the
    executive branch in advocating improved health care coverage and
    reduced costs for judicial officers and employees.
I                     COMMITEE ON JUDICIAL ETHICS

I            The Committee on Judicial Ethics reported that, as of July, 1989,
1
    the Committee had received 2,250 financial disclosure reports and
    certifications for the calendar year 1988, including 1,006 reports and
    certifications from judicial officers, and 1,244 reports and certifications
    from judicial employees.

                           MEMORIAL RESOLUTION

           Noting the death of Judge Lloyd F. MacMahon, the Conference
    adopted the following resolution:

              The Judicial Conference of the United States notes with
              sadness the death of the Honorable Uoyd Francis
              MacMahon, on April 8, 1989, in White Plains, New York.

              Judge MacMahon served with distinction as a Judge of
              the United States District Court for the Southern District of
              New York for nearly thirty years, having been appointed in
              September, 1959. He acted as Chief Judge of the
              Southern District of New York from 1980 to 1982, when
              he took senior status.

             Judge MacMahon also served the judiciary through his
             participation on the Judicial Conference and several of its
             committees. He was a member of the Ad Hoc Committee
             on Court Facilities and Design from 1971 to 1975, and of
             the Committee on the Administration of the Criminal Law
             from 1970 to 1976.           He was the district judge
             representative from the Second Circuit to the Judicial
             Conference of the United States from 1980 to 1982. He
             was a member of the Committee on Judicial Ethics from
             1982 to 1988 and the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
             Court, 1985 until the time of his death.

             The members of the Judicial Conference and the
             Committee on Judicial Ethics convey their deepest
             sympathies to Judge MacMahon's family and request that
             this Resolution be sent to his widow, Margaret
             MacMahon, as a sign of their affection and respect.
                 COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL IMPROVEMENTS

                            AUTOMATION

         The Committee on Judicial Improvements reported that it had
approved additional courts for implementation of the ClVlVCRlMlNAL
and BANCAP systems in the fiscal year 1990 and early in the fiscal year
1991; established priorities for "oontrollable" automation spending;
approved requests from the Ninth and Tenth Circuits to preserve their
office automation and electronic mail capabilities until a uniform
electronic mail system is developed and implemented; endorsed a
two-phase effort by the Federal Judicial Center and the Administrative
Office to integrate personal computer networks into the family of
Integrated Case Management System (ICMS) electronic docketing
applications; and approved for circulation and comment a draft report on
staffing for office automation and data communications, prepared by the
Ad Hoc Committee on Automation Staffing.

                 FILING AND MISCELLANEOUS FEES

        The Conference believes as a matter of policy that ii is the-
responsibility of the Congress to finance the operations of the judiciary
through appropriated funds. In these times of fiscal austerity, however,
the Conference recognizes that sufficient funds to meet the judiciary's
legitimate needs may not be forthcoming, and the Congress has
specifically requested that the courts recommend ways to raise
additional revenues through fees.         Within this framework, the
Conference agreed:

              To amend the bankruptcy court miscellaneous fee
              schedule, prescribed by the Judicial Conference
               pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1930(b), to impose a fee of
              $60 for filing motions to vacate or modify the
              automatic stay, to withdraw the reference of a case,
              or to compel abandonment of property of the estate,
              provided that the revenues raised are credited to the
              judiciary's appropriations account.

         2. To amend the bankruptcy court miscellaneous fee
              schedule to impose a fee of $100 for docketing a
              cross-appeal from a bankruptcy court determination,
              provided that the revenues raised are credited to the
              judiciary's appropriations account.
         3.    To amend the bankruptcy court miscellaneous fee
               schedule to impose a fee of one-half the filing fee for
               deconsolidation of a joint petition, provided that the
               revenues raised are credited to the judiciary's
               appropriations account'.

         4.    To seek authoriiy of the Congress to impose
               administrative fees upon estates in chapter 11 and
               chapter 12 cases in bankruptcy, provided that the
               revenues raised are credited to the judiciary's
               appropriations account.

         5.    To recommend that Congress amend 28 U.S.C.
               1930 to increase the filing fee in chapter 7 and
               chapter 13 cases in bankruptcy from $90 to $120,
               provided that the increased revenues of $30 per
               filing are credited to the judiciary's appropriations
               account.

         6.    To recommend that Congress amend 28 U.S.C.
               1931 and 2412 to permit taxation of the United
               States district court filing fee in favor of the United
               States as a prevailing plaintiff, notwithstanding that
               the litigating agency has not paid the fee, and to
               credit the revenues raised to the judiciary's
               appropriations account.

         The Conference also recognized the contributions to the
judiciary of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts by approving an
annual allocation to the Administrative Office of not to exceed three
percent of fees collected and retained for use by the judiciary, and by
supporting the securing of Administrative Office allocation provisions in
future legislation affecting appropriations distributions.

              RECYCLING OF RECOVERABLE MATERIALS

        Since funds presently saved from increased court efficiencies
such as paper recycling must be returned to the Treasury, there is little
incentive for courts to undertake innovative practices. The Conference,
on the Committee's recommendation, agreed to seek legislation that
would permit courts, on their own authoriiy, to recycle recoverable
materials, with the revenues generated to be credited to the judiciary's
appropriations account. The Administrative Office was directed to
develop guidelines for the courts concerning recycling court property,
and to credit to participating courts any savings they generate.
        'TRAVEL REGULA'TIONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

         So that there will be no time lag between increases in per diem
and mileage rates promulgated by the General Services Administration
and implementation of increased travel reimbursement to judicial
officers, the Judicial Conference authorized the Director to incorporate
such increases automatically into the travel regulations for justices and
judges, without further Conference approval.

                 Vl DEOTAPING COLIRT PROCEEDINGS

          In September, 1988 (Conf. Rpt., p. 83), the Judicial Conference
authorized a two-year experimental program of videotaping court
proceedings. That program was limited to six district courts, in no more
than two circuits. The Eastern and Western Districts of Pennsylvania in
the Third Circuit, and the Eastern District of Louisiana and the Western
District of Texas in the Fifth Circuit, were selected for participation in the
pilot.

         The Ninth Circuit Task Force on Court Reporting requested, and
the Judicial Conference agreed, that the pilot be expanded to include a
magistrate in the Northern District of California, provided that the full
district court will accept a videotape as the record on appeal of the
magistrate's determinations. In the event of limited availability of funding
for the pilot, it was the consensus of the Committee that the courts
originally selected should have priority, unless decentralized budgeting
funds become available in the Northern District of California.

               COLIRT INTERPRETING BY TELEPHONE

         Approximately three-fourths of the 43,000 judicial proceedings
requiring a language interpreter in the district courts in 1987 occurred in
the eight districts where certified staff interpreters are located. The
remaining 86 districts relied on freelance interpreters, many of whom
were non-certified or required travel. Moreover, there is a scarcity of
certified SpanisNEnglish and qualified "exotic language" interpreters in
many areas.

         At the suggestion of a clerk of court, the Conference approved a
two-year pilot study to examine the feasibility of interpreting by telephone
in two districts. The Conference also voted to request that the Federal
Judicial Center evaluate the project, and issue a report so that adequate
guidelines can be established if the pilot proves successful.
                          DEBT COLLECTION

        S. 84, 101st Congress, would establish a uniform,
comprehensive debt collection procedure applicable to the collection of
debts owed the United States. While taking no position on the specifics
of S. 84, the Conference voted to support enactment of a uniform law of
federal debt collection.

               COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES

               FISCAL YEAR 1991 BUDGET REQUESTS
                  FOR SUPPORTING PERSONNEL

        The Judicial Conference reviewed requests for fiscal year 1991
positions for circuit executives' staffs and for staff attorney offices, and
took the following actions (subject to the availability of resources):

          1.   Approved the reclassification of one administrative
               assistant to the circuit executive in the District of
               Columbia Circuit from JSP-14 to JSP-15, and the
               addition of one JSP-14 administrative assistant
               position to the circuit executive in the Seventh
               Circuit.

          2.   Approved the addition of one JSP-15 staff attorney
               (pre-argument) for the District of Columbia Circuit,
               one JSP-15 staff attorney (pre-argument) and one
               JSP-8 secretary to the staff attorney (pre-argument)
               for the First Circuit, and one JSP-7 secretary for the
               Sixth Circuit.

                  ADDITIONAL COURT REPORTERS

          The Conference approved two additional court reporter
positions, one each in the Southern District of Alabama and the Northern
District of California.

                         CAREER LAW CLERKS

        In March, 1989 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 24-25), the Judicial Conference
approved the extension of the JSP-13/14 career law clerk classification
to pro se law clerk positions, and directed the Committee on Judicial
Resources to study the issue of extending the classification to staff
attorneys. At this session, on recommendation of the Committee, the
                                     70
1   .   Conference (a) approved the extension of the JSP-13/14 career law
        clerk classification to nonsupervisory staff attorney and pre-argument
        attorney positions, leaving intact the target grade levels for supervisory
        and senior staff attorneys; (b) reaffirmed the previously established
        one-to-six ratio of supervisory staff attorney positions to nonsupervisory
        staff attorney positions; and (c) amended the law derk qualification
        standards to qualify an individual for career law clerk status if the
        individual's prior experience includes work as a law clerk to a federal
        judge or magistrate, pro se law clerk, or staff attorney, or as a qualified
        attorney in other, non-judiciary attorney-related employment.

                       JUDICIARY SALARY PLAN MODIFICATIONS

               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
        approved the following modifications to the Judiciary Salary Plan:

                  1.    Reclassification of court interpreter positions from
                        JSP-12 to JSP-14.

                  2.    Reclassification of deputy chief probation and pretrial
                        services officer positions on the same principle as
                        are chief deputy clerk positions, provided that no
                        such position shall be graded higher than JSP-15.

                  3.    Revision of the specialized experience portion of the
                        classification and qualification standard for system
                        administrator positions which support UNIX-based
                        systems.

                  4.    Addition of a training section.

                          EXECUTIVE PAY IN THE JUDICIARY

                The executive branch's General Schedule, on which the JSP is
        patterned, has only six steps for grade 16, five steps for grade 17, and
        one step for grade 18. Accordingly, the judiciary's "supergrade"
        employees do not have available to them the full ten-step, 30 percent
        salary range available to other graded judicial branch employees.
        Although this has not caused serious problems because supergrade
        salaries are capped at the rate for level V of the Executive Schedule, pay
        and morale problems for senior court managers could result if Congress
        were to approve substantial pay increases for top officials of
        government.

                The Judicial Conference approved the completion of the full
        ten-step pay chart for employees at the JSP-16,17 and 18 levels.
                                            71
i
                        LONGEVITY BONUS PROGRAM

              In order to recognize and reward long-term court employees for
    their dedicated service to the judiciary, the Judicial Conference approved
    a longevity bonus program for employees at step ten of any grade. The
    bonus would be available only to individuals with efficiency ratings of
    "good" or better for at least three years, and who have been employed
    by the judiciary for a minimum of five years. Under the program, which
    will be incorporated into the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures,
    employees who obtain the endorsement of their appointing officers
    would receive, on their anniversary dates, approximately one-third the
    value of a within-grade increase. The bonus payments would not be
    built into the employees' base salaries and consequently would not be
    used in the computation of other salary-based payments.

                     TEMPORARY HELP SERVICE FIRMS

            The Conference approved the concept of giving courts the
    option of contracting with temporary help service firms when temporary
    employment is needed, so long as the program remains budget neutral.
    The program will be incorporated into the Guide to Judiciary Policies and
    Procedures.

                           LEAVE ACT PAYMENTS

             Effective November 19, 1988, section 1003 of the Judicial
    Improvements and Access to Justice Act (Public Law 100-702) removed
    bankruptcy judges and United States magistrates from coverage under
    the Leave Act, 5 U.S.C. 6301-6323, and also exempted law clerks from
    Leave Act coverage "unless specifically included by the appointing judge
    or by local rule of court." When they leave federal service, these
    individuals will be entitled to reimbursement for annual leave
    accumulated and accrued as of the effective date of their removal from
    Leave Act coverage. The question arose whether reimbursement should
    be at the rate of pay applicable at the time of removal from the Leave
    Act, or at the rate of pay applicable at the time of separation.

            Consistent with the legislative history of the Judicial
    Improvements Act (134 Cong. Rec., p. S. 16305, Oct. 14, 1988), the
    Conference approved payment for the accrued annual leave at the rate
    of pay applicable at the time of separation from federal employment.
                              ADDITIONAL JLlDGESHlPS
,   .
                The Conference authorized the Committee to reopen the 1988
        judgeship survey in order to permit consideration of a request by the        3
        United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit for additional
        judgeships.

                   COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
                       FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

                       CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

                 After consideration of the report of the Committee on the
        Administration of the Federal Magistrates System, and the
        recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district
        courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Conference approved
        the following changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time and
        part-time magistrate positions. Unless otherwise indicated, the changes
        are to be effective when appropriated funds are available.

                                   SECOND ClRCLllT

        New York, Northern:

             Continued the full-time magistrate position at Albany for an
             additional eight-year term.

        New York, Eastern:

        1.   Authorized two additional full-time magistrate positions to serve the
             court at Brooklyn;

        2.   Changed the official location of the full-time magistrate position at
             Hempstead (including Uniondale) to Hauppauge or Hempstead
             (including Uniondale); and

        3.   lncreased the -salary of the part-time magistrate position at
             Patchogue from $5,442 to $6,176 per annum.

        New York, Southern:

             lncreased the salary of 'the part-time magistrate position at
             Newburgh from $7,740 to $8,234 per annum.  ,
Vermont:

     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Burlington for an
     additional eight-year term.         t


                           THIRD CIRCUIT

Pennsylvania, Eastern:

1.   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Philadelphia which is
     due to expire on December 10, 1990, for an additional eight-year
     term; and

2.   lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at'
     Allentown from $7,740 to $8,234 per annum.

Pennsylvania, Middle:

     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Harrisburg for an
     additional eight-year term.



Maryland:

     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
     Hagerstown from $7,740 to $8,234 per annum.

North Carolina, Eastern:

     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Wilmington for an
     additional four-year term and increased the salary from $7,740 to
     $10,293 per annum.

North Carolina, Middle:

     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Greensboro for an
     additional eight-year term.
I d
                                   FIFTH ClRCLllT

      Texas, Northern:

            Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Wichiia
            Falls from $7,740 to $8,234 per annum.

      Texas, Southern:

           Converted the part-time magistrate position at Galveston to
           full-time status and designated the position as Galveston or
           Houston.

      Texas, Western:

           Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Pecos
           from $32,936 to $41,170 per annum.

                                  SIXTH CIRCUIT

      Kentucky, Eastern:

           Continued the part-time magistrate position at London for an
           additional four-year term and maintained the salary at the current
           level of $7,740 per annum until further specific action on the
           position.

      Ohio, Southern:

      1.   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Columbus which is
           due to expire on June 16, 1990, for an additional eight-year term;
           and

      2.    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Portsmouth for an
            additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
            $2,264 per annum.

                                SEVENTH CIRCUIT

      Illinois, Central:

            Reaffirmed a prior decision to reduce the salary of the part-time
            magistrate position at Rock Island from $10,293 to $8,234 per
            annum, effective upon expiration of the current term.
    Indiana, Southern:

    1.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Terre Haute for an
         additional four-year term and increased the salary from $5,442 to
         $6,176 per annum; and-
                                                              *

    2.   Contirujed the part-time magistrate position at New Albany for an
         additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
         $2,264 per annum.

                               EIGHTH CIRCUIT

    Iowa, Southern:

         Continued the part-time magistrate position at Council Bluffs for an
         additional four-year term and maintained the salary at the current
         level of $7,740 per annum until further specific action on the
         poslin.

    North Dakota:

    1.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Grand Forks for an
         additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
         $12,351 per annum;

    2.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Bismarck for an
         additional four-year term and maintained the salary at $7,740 per
         annum until further specific action on the position; and

    3.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Minot for an
         additional four-year term and increased the salary of the position
         from $5,442 to $6,176 per annum.

                               NlNM CIRCUIT
I

    Alaska:

         Continued the part-time magistrate position at Fairbanks for an
         additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
         $24,702 per annum.
California, Eastern:

1.   Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at South
     Lake Tahoe at the current level of $7,740 per annum until further
     specific action on the position; and

2.   Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Bishop
     at the current level of $7,740 per annum until further specific action
     on the position.

California, Central:

1.   Authorized two additional full-time mag'istrate positions to serve the
     court at Los Angeles;

2.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at San Luis Obipo for
     an additional four-year term but deferred action on the salary of the
     position;

3.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at San Bemardino for
     an additional four-year term but deferred action on the salary of the
     position;

4.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Lancaster for an
     additional four-year term at the currently authorized salary of
     $10,293 per annum; and

5.   lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Barstow
     (or Victo~ille)from $7,740 to $8,234 per annum, and agreed to
     review the salary again in one year.

Hawaii:

     lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Hilo
     from $5,442 to $6,176 per annum.

Montana:

1.   Continued the full-time magistrate position at Billings for an
     additional eight-year term;

2.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Kalispell for an
     additional four-year term and increased the salary of the position
     from $5,442 to $6,176 per annum;
                                    77
3.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Wolf Point for an
     additional four-year term and increased the salary of the position
     from $3,265 to $4,117 per annum; and

4.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Butte for an
     additional four-year term and increased the salary of the position
     from $2,264 to $4,117 per annum.

Nevada:

     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Reno for an additional
     eight-year term.

Oregon:

     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Medford
     from $5,442 to $6,176 per annum.

Washington, Western:

1.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Tacoma (or Mount
     Rainier National Park) for an additional four-year term at the
     currently authorized salary of $41,170 per annum;

2.   Continued the part-time magistrate poshion at Olympic National
     Park for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
     salary of $32,936 per annum;

3.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Vancouver for an
     additional four-year term and maintained the salary at the current
     level of $4,354 per annum until further specific action on the
     position; and

4.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Belllingham for an
     additional four-year term and maintained the salary at the current
     level of $4,354 per annum until further specific action on the
     position.
                           TENTH CIRCUIT

Kansas:

     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Topeka for an
     additional eight-year term.

New Mexico:

1.   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Las Cruces for an
     additional four-year term and increased the salary of the position
     from $28,819 to $41,170 per annum; and

2.   Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Clovis
     from $5,442 to $6,176 per annum.

Oklahoma, Eastern:

     Adjusted the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
     McAIester from $7,740 to $6,176 per annum.

Wyoming:

     lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Jackson
     from $7,740 to $8,234 per annum.

                         ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Alabama, Southern:

     Converted the part-time magistrate position at Mobile to full-time
     status.

Florida, Northern:

     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Gainesville for an
     additional four-year term and increased the salary from $3;265 to
     $6,176 per annum.

Georgia, Middle:

     lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at Albany
     from $5,442 to $6,176 per annum.
Georgia, Southern:

     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
     Brunswick (or Waycross) from $21,650 to $41,170 per annum.

               COMMllTEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES

         The Committee on Pacific Territories reported on the Eighth
South Pacific Judicial Conference held in Kauai, Hawaii, April 30 through
May 3, 1989. Over 50 judicial officers from 24 jurisdictions in the Pacific
were i n attendance.

             COMMllTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
               CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS

              JLlDlClAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ACT

          H.R. 1620,101st Congress, would make various amendments to
the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. 372(c). Since Title Iof
the bill would make a number of affirmative improvements or useful
clarifications to the Act such as explicitly authorizing attorney fee awards
to the objects of complaint proceedings, the Conference determined not
to oppose Tile I. The Conference tabled consideration of Tile II of the
legislation, which would establish a National Commission on Judicial
Impeachment.

                JLlDlClAL CONFERENCE RULEMAKING

         Section 372(c)(11) of title 28 provides that the Judicial
Conference "may prescribe such mles for the conduct of proceedings ...,
including the processing of petitions for review, as [it] considers to be
appropriate." On the recommendation of the Committee to Review
Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders, the Conference approved
for submission to the public proposed rules for the processing of
petitions for review of circuit council actions upon judicial conduct or
disability complaints, with the understanding that the rules shall not be
effective until they have been the subject of public notice and the
opportunity for comment, as required by Public Law 100-702, section
403(c).
     COMMllTEE ON RULES OF PRACnCE AND PROCEDURE

                            EVIDENCE RULES

        The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to
the Conference proposed amendments to Rule 609 of the Federal Rules
of Evidence, which deals with impeachment by evidence of conviction of
a crime. The proposed amendments were accompanied by Committee
Notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference approved
the amendments for transmission to the Supreme Court for
consideration, with the recommendation that they be approved by the
Court and transmittedto the Congress pursuant to law.

               COMMlTTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES

            INDEPENDENT REAL PROPERTY AUTHORITY

          The Committee on Space and Facilities proposed for
introduction in the Congress legislation to provide the judiciary with
authority, independent of the General Services Administration but
subject to congressional authorization and oversight, to determine and
execute the judiciary's priorities with respect to space and facilities
management. The proposal would create a separate building fund in the
judiciary, similar to the Public Buildings Fund administered by the
executive branch and to which the judiciary now contributes; retain
jurisdictional arrangements of the Public Works Committees of the
Congress; resolve judiciary facilities issues in a judicial branchllegislative
branch context, between two constitutionally independent branches of
government, rather than in the current dependent judicial
branch/executive branch relationship; give the judiciary title to buildings it
occupies as substantially sole tenant; create a contractual relationship
with GSA in place of the current relationship wherein GSA is the
landlord, with the judiciary merely a federal tenant; and allow, but no
longer require, the courts to rely on GSA to provide facilities and
services.

       The -Judicial Conference strongly endorsed the legislative
proposal, and urged its prompt introduction and enactment.

                     COURTHOUSE MANAGEMENT

       In March, 1988 (Conf. Rpt., p. 40), the Judicial Conference
approved a pilot program in which a court assumes the responsibility for
managing its courthouse under a delegation of authority and transfer of
                                  81
funding from the General Services Administration. Four courts are
included in the program: the Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham)
and the Southern District of Florida (Miami) are operating under
delegation agreements, and the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals
(Atlanta) and the Western District of Washington (Seattle) are
negotiating the terms of their delegation agreements with GSA.

         The Conference approved the inclusion in the pilot facilities
management program of the Court of Appeals Building in Pasadena,
California, and delegated to the Space and Facilities Committee the
authority to approve an additional five court facilities, for a total of ten, to
participate in the program.

                    "JUDICIAL SPACE EMERGENCYw

        For over a decade, there has been a documented need for
additional court space in Brooklyn, New York. In 1986, Congress
authorized and provided funding to GSA for renovation of a large amount
of space in the Emanuel Celler Federal Building and Courthouse in
Brooklyn, but the present occupant, the Internal Revenue Service, has
persistently declined to vacate the necessary space.

         The Conference declared a "judicial space emergency" in the
Eastem District of New York at Brooklyn, and approved the following
resolution:

      Whereas, the District Court for the Eastern District of New
      York at Brooklyn is faced with a judicial housing crisis which is
      seriously impeding the administration of justice in spite of
      congressional authorization to resolve the shortage of court
      facilities;

      Whereas, space is not available to accommodate adequately
      all judgeships authorized for the court;

     Whereas, effective use of visiting judges to assist the court
     with its burgeoningworkload is not possible because of a lack
     of facilities for use by such judges;

     Whereas, the court is unable to function efficiently due to the
     poor alignment of space between Judiciary and Department of
     Justice units, such as the U.S. Probation Office and the U.S.
     Attorney;
I            Whereas, the Internal Revenue Service and the General
    I        Services Administration have not to date agreed on terms for
             the relocation of the Internal Revenue Service from the court
             complex, in spite of congressional authorization in 1986 to do
             so;

                      Be it resolved, that the housing situation in the
             Eastern District of New York constitutes a judicial space
             emergency and that the Director of the Administrative Office of
             the United States Courts is authorized to notify the following
             entities of this intolerable situation, together with proposed
             means for resolution:

                 A.    The Judiciary Committees of the Congress;

                 B.    The Public Works Committees of the Congress;

                 C.    Relevant Senators and-Membersof Congress;

                 D.    The Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service;
                       and

                 E.    The Administrator of General Services.


               AD HOC COMMllTEE ON FEDERAL HABEAS CORPUS
                            IN CAPITAL CASES

                The Ad Hoc Committee on Federal Habeas Corpus in Capital
        Cases was created by the Chief Justice in June, 1988, to inquire into
        "the necessity and desirability of legislation directed toward avoiding
        delay and the lack of finality" in capital cases in which the prisoner had
        or had been offered counsel. Retired Associate Justice Lewis F. Powell,
        Jr., was appointed to chair the Committee, which also included Judges
        Charles Clark, Paul H. Roney, William Terrell Hodges, and Barefoot
        Sanders.

                The Committee proposed draft legislation to revise the existing
        habeas corpus statutory procedure with respect to those states that
        establish a system for the appointment and compensation of competent
        counsel throughout all stages of state post-conviction review. The draft
        would limit the period within which a federal habeas petition must be
        filed; establish an automatic stay of execution until federal habeas
        proceedings are completed; and prevent prisoners from continuing to file
                                            83
successive petitions for habeas corpus in federal court after they have
had one full course of judicial review, absent extraordinary
circumstances and a colorable showing of factual innocence.

        The Conference received the report of the Committee, agreed to
the report's release, and discharged the Committee from further service.
Consideration of the Committee's recommendationswas postponed until
March, 1990.

                 AD HOC COMMllTEE ON CAMERAS
                      IN THE COURTROOM

         The Ad Hoc Committee on Cameras in the Courtroom reported
its rentative'' consensus that (1) rules governing the use of cameras in
courtrooms should be stricken from the Code of Conduct for United
States Judges, and instead should be included in Proceedings of the
Judicial Conference and the Guide to Judiciary Policies and procedures;
(2) the mles governing cameras in federal courtrooms should be relaxed
somewhat, to allow the use of cameras for security and "other purposes
of judicial administration"; and (3) technological advances and the
experiences of the states should continue to be monitored to determine
whether further modifications of the restrictions would be warranted at a
future date.

        The Committee will obtain comments on these
recommendations from the members of the Judicial Conference and
other judicial officers in the system, and transmit final recommendations
for Conference action in March, 1990.

               FEDERAL COURTS STUDY COMMlTrEE

         The Federal Courts Study Committee reported on its progress in
studying the role of the federal courts and their relationship to the state
courts, the structure of.thefederal courts, and the workload of the federal
courts.     In accordance with Public Law 100-702, the Judicial
Improvements and Access to Justice Act, the Committee will file its final
report no later than April 2, 1990, with the Judicial Conference, the
President, Congress, the Conference of Chief Justices, and the State
Justice Institute.
                             PRETERMISSION OF TERMS
                            OF THE COURTS OF APPEALS

    .            Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 48, the Conference approved the
        pretermission of terms of the following United States Courts of Appeals
        during the calendar year 1990: the Court of Appeals for the Fourth
,       Circuit at Asheville, North Carolina; the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
        Circuit at Los Angeles, California; and the Court of Appeals for the Tenth
        Circuit at Wichiia, Kansas, and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

                                        FUNDING

                 All of the foregoing recommendations which require the
        expenditure of funds for implementation were approved by the
        Conference subject to the availability of funds, and subject to whatever
        priorities the Conference might establish for the use of available
        resources.

                         RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

               The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters
        considered at this session where necessary for legislative or
        administrative action.



                    UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION

                  Section 991 of title 28, United States Code, requires at least
        three of the members of the United States Sentencing Commission to be
        federal judges. As of the end of October, 1989, there will be three
        vacancies on the Commission, one of which is a judicial vacancy. The
        statute calls for the President to select federal judges after considering a
        list of six judges recommended by the Judicial Conference of the United
        States.

                On October 20, 1989, by telephone vote, the Judicial
        Conference approved a list of nominees to be forwarded to the President
        for appointment to the Sentencing Commission.




                                             Chief Justice of the United
                                             Presiding

        October 31.1989
