        REPORT OF M E PROCEEDINGS OF THE
     JUDICW. CONFERENCE OF M E UNITED STATES


                         March 13, 1990


       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened on
March 13, 1990, pursuant to the qll of the Chief Justice of the
United States issued under 28 U.S.C. 331. The Chief Justice
presided and the following members of the Conference were         ,
present:

       First Circuit:

               Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell
               Chief Judge Frank H. Freedman,
                      District of Massachusetts

       Second Circuit:

               Chief Judge James L. Oakes
               Chief Judge Charles L. Brieant,
                      Southern District of New York

       Third Circuit:

               Chief Judge A. Leon Higginbotham
               Judge William J. Nealon, Jr.,
                      Middle District of Pennsylvania

       Fourth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Sam J. Ervin, Ill
               Judge Frank A. Kaufman,
                      District of Maryland
Fifth Circuit:

        Chief Judge Charles Clark
        Chief Judge Barefoot Sanders,
               Northern District of Texas

Sixth Circuit:

        Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt
        Judge James P. Churchill,
               Eastern District of Michigan

Seventh Circuit:

        Chief Judge William J. Bauer
        Judge Sarah Evans Barker,
               Solithern District of Indiana

Eighth Circuit:

        Chief Judge Donald P. l a y
        Chief Judge John F. Nangle,
               Eastern District of Missouri

Ninth Circuit:

        Chief Judge Alfred T. Goodwin
        Judge Robert F. Peckham,
               Northern District of California

Tenth Circuit:

        Chief Judge William J. Holloway
        Chief Judge Earl E. OIConnor,
               District of Kansas

Eleventh Circuit:

        Chief Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat
        Chief Judge Sam C. Pointer, Jr.,
               Northern District of Alabama
        District of Columbia Circuit:

               Chief Judge Patricia M. Wald
               Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr.,
                      District of Columbia

        Federal Circuit:

               Chief Judge Howard T. Markey

        Court of International Trade:

               Chief Judge Edward D. Re


        Circuit Judges Richard S. Arnold, Edward R. Becker,
Stephanie K. Seymour, and Walter K. Stapleton; Senior Circuit
Judge Joseph F. Weis, Jr.; and District Judges Richard M. Bilby,
Morey L. Sear, and William W Schwarzer attended all or some of
the sessions of the Conference. Circuit Executives Vincent
Flanagan (First Circuit), Steven Flanders (Second Circuit), John P.
Hehman (Third Circuit), Samuel W. Phillips (Fourth Circuit), Lydia
Comberrel (Fifth Circuit), James A. Higgins (Sixth Circuit), Collins
T. Fipatrick (Seventh Circuit), June L Boadwine (Eighth Circuit),
Gregory 5. Walters (Ninth Circuit), Eugene J. Murret renth
Circuit), Norman E. Zoller (Eleventh Circuit), and Linda Finkelstein
(District of Columbia Circuit) were also present.

        Congressman Robert Kastenmeier, Chairman of the House
Jueliciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the
Administration of Justice, attended the Conference briefly and
spoke on matters pending in the Congress of interest to the
judiciary. The Attorney General of the United States, Dick
Thornburgh, addressed the Conference on matters of mutual
interest to the Department of Justice and the Conference.

       L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of
the United States Courts, attended the sessions of the
Conference, as did James E. Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director;
William R. Burchill, Jr., General Counsel; Robert E. Feidler,
Legislative and Public Affairs Officer; Karen K. Siegel, Chief, Office
of the Judicial Conference Secretariat; and David A. Sellers,         .,
Public Information Officer. Judge John C. Godbold, Director of
the Federal Judicial Center, also attended the sessions of the
Conference, as did Lawrence H. Averill, Jr., Administrative
Assistant to the Chief Justice; Charles W. Nihan, Deputy Director
of the Judicial Center; and 'Judicial Fellows Robert George, Kevin
Jones, and Linda Mullenix.

     The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Judge
Godbold, presented a report on the activities of the Center.

           REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE
            ADMINISIRATWE  OFFICE OF THE
                               '




                UNITED STATES COllRTS

       The Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, Mr. Mecham, submitted a brief report summarizing
the workload of the federal judiciary during the calendar year
1989.

            JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

        Mr. Mecham reported that filings in the 12 regional courts
of appeals rose more than three percent during 1989, to a record
high of 40,266. The overall increase in appeals resulted from a
substantial jump in criminal appeals from the district courts.
These appeals climbed 27 percent due to sentencing appeals and
increases in the drug-related criminal caseload of the district
courts.     There were 1,556 appeals in 1989 involving only
sentences, 18 percent of all criminal appeals. Drug-related cases
appealed to the courts of appeals continued their dramatic rise
this year, up 36 percent over 1988, and accounted for 56 percent
of all criminal appeals filed. Appeals from rulings of the district
courts on state and federal prisoner petitions also rose this year,
by three percent. With the exception of original proceedings, all
other appeals categories (civil, bankruptcy, and administrative)
were lower compared to a year ago.              During the year,
dispositions in the regional courts of appeals reached an all-time
high of 37,604, an increase of more than two percent from 1988.
 Despite this increase in terminations, the pending caseload rose
nine percent, to 31,836 on December 31, 1989.
    .
                Filings in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
        rose nearly eight percent, from 1,303 in 1988 to 1,407 in 1989.
        The largest increases were in appeals from the U.S. district courts
        and from the Patent and Trademark Office. Although appeals
        from the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) remained
        relatively constant (up one percent), MSPB appeals continued to
        account for more than 40 percent of the court's total workload.
        The court's dispositions also increased this year, rising eight
        percent to 1,419. 'The overall increase in terminations resulted
        from significant rises in dispositions of appeals from the MSPB
        and the district courts. Since terminations outnumqered filings,
        the pending caseload dropped slightly (less than two percent), to
        632 on December 31, 1989.
P
                Civil filings in district courts fell seven percent this year, to
i       223,113 cases. Filings involving the United States declined by
L
        11 percent, and private cases declined by six percent. Despite
        the overall decline in civil filings, increases were reported in
        several categories, most notably U.S. actions to recover defaulted
        student loans and prisoper civil rights petitions. Throughout most
        of the past decade, the changes in the volume of civil filings have
        been determined by the number of cases involving the U.S. in
        two areas: actions by the U.S. to recover overpayment of
        veterans' benefits (VA cases) and actions against the U.S.
        regarding social security disability ,insurance benefits. These
        actions were again major factors during 1989. Filings of VA
        cases declined almost 6,000 during the year, down from 12,124
        in 1988; as recently as 1985, filings of VA cases totaled more
        than 45,000. Social security disability insurance cases declined
        almost 3,000 in 1989, down to 6,374; at the peak of activity in
        1983, more than 22,000 of these cases were filed.

                While the case types noted above have been the primary
        factors in the decline in civil filings in the past, a new factor was
        introduced this year. In May, 1989, the jurisdictional amount in
        diversity cases increased from $10,000 to $50,000. As a result,
        diversity cases declined 14 percent in 1989, to 60,183 cases, the
        lowest level since 1984. Diversity filings during the last six
        months of 1989 totaled 27,267, down more than 20 percent from
        the 34,362 such cases filed during the same period in 1988, and
        more than 17 percent below the 32,916 filed during the first six
        months of 1989. The number of civil cases closed was also
!s   lower, falling six percent to 224,514. ~ v e nwith the decline,
I
     terminations outnumbered filings, resulting in a slight reduction in
!    the pending caseload. The civil pending caseload, which has
i    remained relatively steady throughout most of the 1980s, declined
     less than one percent, to 244,198 cases.
L


i
             Criminal cases filed in the district courts continued to
I
     increase this year to 47,779 cases, up seven percent over the
P    44,761 cases filed in 1988. There were several offense categories
i    with increased levels of prosecutions. The most significant
     increase was for drug offenses, where case filings rose from
i    10,904 last year, to 12,782 in 1989, an increase of 17 percent.
     Over the last five years, criminal case filings overall have grown
     by 17 percent, while drug filings alone have increased by 75
     percent. Drug cases have accounted for 80 percent of the overall
     increase in case filings during that time, and now represent 27
     percent of all criminal cases. The number of criminal cases
     closed also increased this year by seven percent to 44,068 cases,
     up from 41,136 cases last year. With filings still exceeding
     closings, however, the pending caseload rose by 12 percent. On
     December 31, 1989, there were 33,586 pending criminal cases,
     involving 49,914 defendants.

             During 1989, there were 679,980 bankruptcy petitions filed
     in the bankruptcy courts, an increase of 11 percent over 1988.
     The overall increase in filings this year was the result of a 12
     percent increase in non-businqs filings, with increases of ten
     percent in Chapter 7 liquidations and 18 percent in Chapter 13
     debt adjustments. Filings under Chapter 11, which represent only
     a fraction of the non-business total, declined for the third straight
     year. Overall, there was a small decrease (one percent) in
     business filings. This resulted from a three percent drop in
     Chapter 7 filings. Despite the overall decline in business flings,
     Chapter 11 business reorganizations rose five percent to 16,303,
     the first increase since 1986. Chapter 13 business debt
     adjustments also increased in 1989, up six percent. Filings of
     family farmer business debt adjustments under Chapter 12, which
     was initiated in 1986, continued to decline. Only 1,440 petitions
     were filed under Chapter 12 in 1989, down almost 30 percent
     from the 2,037 filed in 1988, and down more than 70 percent
    from the high in 1987. The number of terminations in 1989
    increased to 594,237, up more than two percent from a year ago.
    As a result of the large volume of new filings, the pending
    caseload reached an all-time high of 927,437 petitions as of
    December 31, 1989, more than ten percent above the 841,694
    petitions pending last year. The rate of increase in the pending
    caseload is up substantially from the four percent rate reported
    in 1988.

            Mr. Mecham also reported that as of March 13, 1990, there
    were 18 vacancies among the 168 judgeship positions authorized
    for the United States courts of appeals, 45 vacancies among the
    575 positions authorized for the United States district courts, and
I   one vacancy on the United States Court of International Trade.
t

           FEDERAL HABEAS CORPUS IN CAPITAL CASES
I
            In June, 1988, the Chief Justice appointed an Ad Hoc
    Committee on Federal Habeas Corpus in Capital Cases, to inquire
    into "the necessity and desirability of legislation directed toward
    avoiding delay and the lack of finality" in capital cases in which
    the prisoner had or had been offered counsel. Retired Associate
    Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr., chaired the Committee, which also
    included Judges Charles Clark, Paul H. Roney, William Terrell
    Hodges, and Barefoot Sanders.

            In September, 1989 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 83-84), the Judicial
    Conference received the report of its Ad Hoc Committee, which
    proposed draft legislation to revise the existing habeas corpus
    statutory procedure with respect to those states that establish a
    system for the appointment and compensation of competent
    counsel throughout all stages of state post-convictionreview. The
    draft bill recommended by the Ad Hoc Committee would limit the
    period within which a federal habeas petition must be filed;
    establish an automatic stay of execution until federal habeas
    proceedings are completed; and preclude relief or further stays
    of execution if prisoners file successive petitions for habeas
    corpus in federal court after they have had one full course of
    federal collateral review, absent extraordinary circumstances and
    a colorable showing of factual innocence. The Conference
determined at that time to release the report to the public,
discharge the Ad Hoc Committee from further service, and
postpone additional consideration of its report until the current
meeting.

        The Conference revised the recommendations of the Ad
Hoc Committee report, together with five proposals for
modification submitted by Conference members. After renewed
consideration, the Conference endorsed the objectives of the Ad
Hoc Committee report (1) to eliminate piecemeal appeals; (2) to
provide an automatic stay in capital cases in order to obviate
successful petitions for stay; and (3) to provide competent
counsel on state post-conviction cases. It further endorsed the
recommendations of the Ad Hoc Committee report with the
following modifications:

1.     Specific mandatory standards similar to those set forth in
       the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 should be required with
       respect to the appointment and compensation of counsel
       for capital defendants at all stages of the state and federal
       capital punishment litigation.

2.     A federal court should entertain a second or successive
        petition for habeas corpus relief if (a) the request for relief
       is based on a claim not previously presented by the
       prisoner in the state and federal courts and the failure to
       raise the claim is the result of state action in violation of
       the Constitution or laws of the United States, the result of
       Supreme Court recognition of a new federal right that is
       retroactively applicable, or based on a factual predicate
       that could not have been discovered through the exercise
       of reasonable diligence; and (b) the facts underlying the
       claim would be sufficient, if proven, to undermine the
       court's confidence in the jury's determination of guilt on
       the offense or offenses for which the death penalty was
       imposed, or in the appropriateness of the sentence of
       death.
                           EXECUTIVE COMMrrrEE

                          CIVIL JUSTICE REFORM ACT

                 S. 2027 and H.R. 3898 (10lst Congress), the proposed
        Civil Justice Reform Act, would, inter alia, require all federal
        district courts to adopt "civil justice expense and delay reduction
    .   plans1'within one year of enactment. The bills are based on the
        recommendations of a Brookings Institution task force report
        entitled, "Justice for All, Reducing Costs and Delay in Civil
        Litigation".

                  In recognition of the substantial impact this legislation
        would have on the federal courts if enacted, and of the proposed
I
        ''fast track" for enactment, the Executive Committee appointed a
        subcommittee composed of District Judges Robert F. Peckham
        (chairman), Sarah Evans Barker, John F. Nangle, and Aubrey E.
        Robinson, Jr., to develop a strategy for consideration and
        appropriate Conference action.

                Between February 28 and March 9, 1990, the Executive
        Committee held four teleconferences to discuss this matter, and       -
        agreed to recommend that, at its March 13 session, the Judicial
        Conference oppose this legislation in its present form; approve a
        description and analysis of the bills; reaffirm its long-standing
        commitment to case management by adopting a "Statement on
        Case Management"; and authorize the Secretary of the
        Conference to disseminate the Conference's position to all judicial
        officers and to others in the judidal community.

              On March 13, 1990, the Judicial Conference unanimously
        approved these recommendations.



                The Executive Committee also reported that, since the last
        session of the Conference in September, 1989, it had addressed
        the following matters on the Conference's behalf:
        APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1990
        On December 18,1989, the Executive Committee approved
spending plans for the "Salaries and Expenses" and "Court
Security appropriations for the fiscal year 1990. In the aftermath
of the tragic death of Judge Robert Vance, $5,000,000 withheld
in the "Court Security" spending plan was restored by the
Committee on February 14, 1990.

                    ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS
       The Executive Committee agreed to revise the 1988
Judgeship Survey to include five additional judgeships for the
Sixth Circuit, and one additional judgeship for the Northern District
of Texas.
             TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR JUSTICES
                       AND JUDGES

        Effective January 1, 1990, the Committee amended the
travel regulations for justices and judges to raise the alternative
maximum actual subsistente expense allowance to $175 per day.'
                  SENIOR JUDGE LEGISLATION
        Section 705 of the Ethics Reform Act of 1989 (Public Law
101-194) enacted new section 371(f) of title 28, creating a new
work certification requirement for senior judges. With respect to
work performed after January 1, 1990, in order to continue
receiving the full salary of the office including increases of a non-
routine nature, senior judges must be cetiied by the chief judge
of the circuit as having met one of five specified work
requirements. Rules and standards for meeting the work
requirements are to be promulgated by the Judicial Conference.




    ' Effective March 13, 1990, the Conference in plenary
session raised the $175 alternative maximum subsistence rate to
$225 daily, with annual increases to account for inflation. See
"Travel Regulations for Justices and Judgesu, infra p. 22.
        On February 14, 1990, the Executive Committee
promulgated interim rules for senior judge workload certifications
for the calendar year 1990. See also "Senior Judge Legislation",
-
infra p. 20.

             FEDERAL COURTS STUDY COMMrrrEE

        Tile I of Public Law 100-702, the Federal Courts Study Act,
established within the Judicial Conference a Federal Courts Study
Committee on the future of the federal judiciary. No later than
April 2, 1990, the Committee is required to file its final report with
the Conference, the President, the Congress, and others.

        In a draft dated December 22, 1989, the Study Committee
circulated recommendations for public comment and, on the
Conference's behalf, the Executive Committee agreed that
comment on two matters would be appropriate. The Executive
Committee advised the Study ,Committee of its support for the
establishment of a long-range strategic planning committee for the
judiciary, to be placed under the Executive Committee of the
Conference, with staffing of the function to be determined by the
 Executive Committee. The Executive Committee also endorsed
a recommendation to the Study Committee to retain in the
Administrative Office responsibility for developing judicial impact
statements.
        The Study Committee's final recommendations will be
circulated to all Conference committees for further comment and
subsequent action by the Executive Committee.

                   MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS
        The Executive Committee declined to take a position on
Title II of H.R. 1620, 10lst Congress, which would create a
National Commission on Judicial Impeachment; directed that an
incentive award be conferred upon the Director of the
Administrative Office; approved the convening of a sentencing
institute in September, 1990, for the judges of the F i h and
Eleventh Circuits; authorized the Ninth Circuit to grant special
awards to court employees who displayed exemplary dedication
following the recent earthquake, and extended the same
opportunity to the First, Third, and Fourth Circuits for similar
actions during and following ~ u i i c a n e Hugo (see also,
"Resolution",      p. 26); approved technical amendments to the        .   1


bankruptcy court miscellaneous fee schedule; directed the
Administrative Office to draft amendments to improve the Judicial
Survivors' Annuities System (JSAS); and approved amendments
to the "computer-assisted legal research in chambers" program.

       COMMlllEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

        The Committee on the Administrative Office reported on
briefings and tours of the agency, held in November, 1989. The
Committee concluded that, overall, the Administrative Office is
functioning appropriately. The Director, advised of areas of
concern, agreed to address those areas.

      COMMlllEE ON THE A D M I N I ~ T I O N OF THE
                BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                   ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS

       In order to respond to sharp and steady increases in
bankruptcy filings, the Conference voted to recommend that
Congress authorize one additional bankruptcy judgeship each for
the District of Colorado, the District of Maryland, the District of
Puerto Rico, the Southern District of Florida, the Eastern District
of Virginia to be stationed at Norfolk, a n d two additional
judgeships for the Middle District of Florida to be stationed at
Orlando and Tampa.

           BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATOR PROGRAM

       The Bankruptcy Judges, United States Trustees, and
Family Farmer Bankruptcy Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-554), which
provided for the expansion of the United States trustee program
nationwide, excepted the judicial districts in Alabama and North
Carolina until October 1, 1992 (or the election by a district to be
included in the U.S. trustee system).

       The Federal Judicial Center is studying the operation of
the bankruptcy administrator program. In an interim report, the
Judicial Center has concluded that, although bankruptcy
administrators are not statutorily afforded standing to raise issues
and be heard in court, the program appears to be accomplishing
its statutory tasks.

       The Conference agreed to recommend that Congress
enact legislation (a) continuing the bankruptcy administrator
program; (b) granting bankruptcy administrators status similar to
United States trustees; and (c) permitting judicial districts to opt
out of the U.S. trustee system and into the bankruptcy
administrator program.

        ADDITIONAL DUTY STATIONS AND PLACES OF
        HOLDING COURT FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

       The Conference changed the official duty station of a
bankruptcy judge from Spokane to Yakima, Washington, and
designated Phoenix, Arizona, as the official duty station for the
additional judgeship for the District of Arizona authorized by
Public Law 100-587.

                     NOTICING GUIDELINES

        In order to conform the Conference's bankruptcy noticing
guidelines with recent changes in the schedule of miscellaneous
fees to be charged in the bankruptcy courts, the Conference
amended Guideline 5 to read as follows:

       5.   Fee for Noticina bv Clerks. For all notices
       generated in cases filed under title 11 of the United
       States Code, 50 cents each. Notices dated prior
       to January 1, 1987, should be charged at ,the rate
       of 25 cents for each notice in excess of fifty notices
       per set. Notice fees are payable only from the
       estate and only to the extent there is an estate.

             COMMlllEE ON THE BICENTENNIAL
                 OF THE CONSllRJllON

         The Committee on the Bicentennial of the Constitution
reported on its participation in the Bicentennial effort. The
Committee has been active in promoting and funding Bicentennial
activities, including the InternationalAppellate Judges Conference.
See infra, p. 20.
                 COMMITTEE ON M E BUDGET'

          ASSET FORFErrClRE FUND AMENDMENTS

        In the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-
690), Congress authorized reimbursement to the judicial
branch from the Crime Victims Fund for the judiciary's
administrative costs of monitoring and collection. Observing
that reimbursement from the Asset Forfeiture Fund is
indistinguishable in principle from reimbursement from the
Crime Victims Fund, the Budget and Criminal Law and
Probation Administration Committees recommended that 28
U.S.C. 524(c) be amended to authorize such reimbursement
for adjudication and home detention costs. The Conference
agreed, voting to seek such an amendment from the
Congress.

         COMMITEE ON THE CODES OF CONDUCT

                 FEDERAL ETHICS LAW REFORM

       Among other things, the Ethics Reform Act of 1989 (Public
Law 101-194) imposed new statutory rules for officers and
employees in the judiciary governing the receipt of gifts and
honoraria, outside earned income, and other outside activities.
The Act authorizes the Judicial Conference to issue regulations
with respect to the judicial branch under Titles Ill (relating to gifts
to federal employees) and VI (relating to limitations on outside
earned income, outside employment, and honoraria). This' gives
the Judicial Conference a supervisory and regulatory role over the
Supreme Court and the Federal Judicial Center, two entities over
which the Conference has heretofore had no jurisdiction.

       The Judicial Conference authorized the Executive
Committee to adopt and implement regulations under these titles,
and the Committee on Codes of Conduct to issue advisory
opinions interpreting these titles, for all officers and employees of
the judicial branch except those of the Supreme Court and the
Federal Judicial Center. The Conference also authorized the
Executive Committee to amend the Code of Conduct for United
States Judqes and the comparable canons for other members of
the judicial branch to conform, where appropriate, to the
regulations adopted under Titles Ill and VI. With respect to
adopting and implementing regulations for officers and employees
of the Supreme Court and the Judicial Center, the Conference
delegated its authority to the Chief Justice of the United States
and the Judicial Center Board, respectively.

           JUDICIAL DISCIPLINE AND IMPEACHMENT

       S.J. Res. 11, 232, and 233 (10lst Congress) propose
constitutional amendments concerning the impeachment of
judges. The Conference voted to oppose all three measures as
unnecessary, unwise, and threatening to judicial independence.

           COMMlllEE ON THE COURT SECURrrY

                   PARTICIPATION ON LOCAL
                 COURT SECURITY COMMITTEES

        In March, 1989 (Conf. Rpt., p. 13), in order to improve the
security of the courts, the Judicial Conference approved
expanding the membership of district court security committees
to include a representative of the bankruptcy court and, where
there is a court of appeals within the district, a representative of
that court. At this session, noting that United States magistrates
are often the first line of the judiciary in criminal proceedings, the
Conference approved expanding the membership of district court
security committees to include a magistrate.

          OFF-SITE SECURITY OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS
                    AND THEIR FAMILIES

        The Conference approved the following resolution
declaring a state of emergency as to the off-site security of
judicial officers and their families, and requesting that the Attorney
General address the situation immediately:

               The death of District Judge Richard J.
        Daronco at his home two years ago, the recent
        death of Circuit Judge Robert S. Vance at his
        home in Birmirlgham, the bomb intercepted at the
        courthouse in Atlanta, the public threats against all
       federal judges in the Eleventh Circuit, and the
       bombs mailed to offices of persons engaged in
       Civil Rights activities, convince the Judicial
       Conference that a state of emergency exists as to
       the off-site security of judicial officers and their
       families, and the Judicial Conference requests that
       the Attorney General of the United States
       immediately address the situation.
              COMMlllEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
             AND PROBATlON ADMINISlRAllON

              MANDATORY MINIMUM SENTENCES

        Observing that the Third, Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth Circuits
had passed resolutions in opposition to mandatory minimum
sentences, the Judicial Conference voted to urge the Congress
to reconsider the wisdom of mandatory minimum sentence
statutes and to restructure such statutes so that the U.S.
Sentencing Commission may uniformly establish guidelines for all
criminal statutes to avoid unwarranted disparities from the scheme
of the Sentencing Reform Act (Title II of the Comprehensive Crime
Control Act of 1984, Public Law 98473).

                  PRETRIAL DETE.NTION CRISIS
        Noting that the average number of defendants in pretrial
detention has more than doubled in the past four years, and that
many of these defendants must be detained at great distance
from places of trial, the Conference adopted a resolution
recognizing this pretrial detention crisis, and recommending that
the Congress provide adequate funding to the Bureau of Prisons,
the U. S. Marshals Service, and U. S. pretrial services officers to
provide for adequate custody and supervision of pretrial
detainees. The Conference also supported the development of
alternatives to incarceration for some offenders, and broader
experimentation with remedies such as video access to prisoners
at remote facilities by attorneys and other court officers.
          MANDATORY DETENTION FOR OFFENDERS
           CONVICTED OF SERIOUS CRIMES ACT

       S. 1259 (101st Congress) would amend 18 U.S.C. 3143 to
require the detention of any person found guilty of a violent
offense or serious drug offenses, pending sentence or appeal.
Since courts have ample legal authority to detain convicted
defendants when circumstances warrant, the Conference voted to
oppose the bill.

                 PRETRIAL SERVICES REPORTS

       In order to increase local flexibility, the Conference agreed
to recommend that Congress amend 18 U.S.C. 3154 to remove
the requirement for pretrial services reports in Class A
misdemeanor cases.

            COMMlllEE ON .DEFENDER SERVICES

                APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

        The Defender Services Committee reported that, during the
fiscal year 1989, approximately 69,954 persons were represented
under the Crirr~inalJustice Act, compared to 65,507 persons
during the fiscal year 1988, an increase of 6.8 percent. Of the
69,954 persons represented, approximately 36,000, or 51.5
percent, were represented by federal public and community
defender organizations.

     BUDGET AND GRANT REQUESTS - FEDERAL PUBLIC
       AND COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

        The Committee approved a request from the Federal
Public Defender Organization for the Southern District of West
Virginia for an increase in its allocation of $56,500, to support the
employment of an automation specialist to provide field support
for national automation efforts. The Committee also approved a
sustaining grant for the fiscal year 1991 for a sixteenth death
penalty resource center, for the Northern and Southern Districts
of Ohio, in the amount of $960,047, contingent upon the
organization's securing the requisite amount of non-CJA funds,
and further contingent upon the approval of amendments to the
CJA plans for the districts to be served.
                REDUCTION OF CJA VOUCHERS

        The Judicial Conference declined to replace the language
in Paragraph 2.22(D) of the Guidelines for the Administration of
the Criminal Justice Act with language advising judicial officers to
provide appointed counsel with the opportunity to respond to
proposed reductions in vouchers. The Conference also declined
to approve the transmittal of a recommendation to the circuit
councils that they adopt local procedures providing that presiding
judicial officers     afford counsel an opportunity to respond to
a proposed fee reduction.

      COMMlllEE ON FEDERALSTATE JURlSDlCTlON

              STATE-FEDERAL JUDICIAL COUNCIL

       The Judicial Conference approved in principle creation of
a National State-Federal Judicial Council, as suggested by the
Conference of [State] Chief Justices. A specific proposal will be
presented to the Conference in September, 1990.

        PORNOGRAPHY VICTIMS' COMPENSATION ACT

        The Conference voted to oppose H.R. 3785 (10lst
Congress), the proposed Pornography Victims' CompensationAct,
insofar as it would create a private right of action in the federal
courts by victims of violent crime against producers and
distributors of sexually explicit materials in certain circumstances.
The subject matter of the legislation falls within the traditional
scope of state law, and there is no need for actions in the federal
court to vindicate federal interests or policies.

            INTERSTATE GREYHOUND RACING ACT

        Since enforcement of state regulatory schemes relating to
matters such as off-track betting on greyhound racing is a matter
traditionally left to the states, the Conference opposed S. 1745
(101st Congress), the proposed Interstate Greyhound Racing Act
of 1989, insofar as it would create a private right of action in
federal courts for damages resutting from .the making of interstate
off-track wagers on greyhound races.
                        CIVIL PRIORITIES

       The appropriations act for the Department of the Interior
for the fiscal year 1990 establishes a priority for federal court
actions challenging timber sales in forests with the northern
spotted owl, and also requires that final decisions in such matters
must be rendered within 45 days. Establishing civil priorities, and
imposing time limits on the judicial decision-making process, are
inimical to effective civil case management and unduly hamper
exercise of the necessary discretion in the performance of judicial
functions.    Accordingly, the Conference voted to oppose
 reenactment of these provisions.

          COMMERCE IN INDIAN-PRODUCED GOODS

       The Conference opposed H.R. 2006 (10lst Congress),
insofar as the bill would provide a private right of action in the
federal courts for damages for false representations that goods
are Indian-produced.

     TRAVEL REGULAl'IONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

       The Conference resolved that a joint meeting of the
Conference of Chief Justices and the Judicial Conference of the
United States in Washington, D.C., on September 10, 1990, shall
be considered a "Judicial Conference Committee meeting" for
purposes of section D.1 .a@) of the travel regulations for justices
and judges. See also ''Travel Regulations for Justices and
Judgesu, infra p. 20.

       COMMlllEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

       The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that
during the period August 15, 1989, through January 30, 1990, the
Committee had recommended 89 intercircuit assignments to be
undertaken by 72 judges. Of this number, 18 were senior circuit
judges, three were active circuit judges, 27 were senior district
judges, 18 were active district judges, two were senior judges of
the Court of lnternational Trade, and four were active judges of
the Court of lnternational Trade.
       Of the 89 assignments approved, 46 judges undertook 58
assignments to the courts of appeals, and 28 judges undertook
31 assignments to the district courts.

           COMMITIEE ON THE INERNATIONAL
        APPELLATE JUDGES CONFERENCE OF 1990

     TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

       The Conference resolved that the International Appellate
Judges Conference shall be considered a "Judicial Conference
Committee meeting" for purposes of section D.1.a(5) of the travel
regulations for justices and judges. See also Travel Regulations
for Justices and Judges", supra p. 19.

           COMMITIEE ON THE JUDICW, BRANCH

                  SENIOR JUDGE LEGISLATION

       As noted supra pp. 10-11, on February 14, 1990, the
Executive Committee promulgated interim rules for senior judge
workload certifications for the calendar year 1990.

        On March 13, 1990, the Conference in plenary session
approved a two-step procedure for promulgating permanent rules
for certification of senior judges under 28 U.S.C. 371(9:first, the
interim rules would be distributed to all Article Ill judges for notice
and comment; and second, after comments had been taken into
account, permanent rules for calendar year 1991 and thereafter
would be presented to the Judicial Conference in September,
1990.




       The Committee on Judicial Ethics reported that as of
January, 1990, the Committee had received 2,509 financial
disclosure reports and cetirfications for the calendar year 1988,
including 1,024 reports and certifications from judicial officers and
1,485 reports and certifications from judicial employees.
         COMMITEE ON JUDICW, IMPROVEMENTS

                           AUTOMATION

      The Judicial Conference approved the 1990 update to the
Long Ranqe Plan for Automation in the United States Courts.
The Conference declined to delegate authority to the Judicial
Improvements Committee to approve the annual updates of the
-on the Conference's behalf.
Plan

                     MISCELMNEOUS FEES
        The Conference amended the schedules of fees to be
charged in the district and bankruptcy courts to establish the
following rates for electronic access to court data on the PACER
system, barring congressional objection. PACER allows a law
firm, or other organization or individual, to use a personal
computer to access a court's computer and extract public data in
the form of docket sheets, calendars, and other records.

       Yearlv Subscription Rate:

               Commercial - $60 per court
               Non-profit - $30 per court

       Per Minute Charqe:

               Commercial - $1.OO
               Non-profit - $0.50
         Under language included in the judiciary's appropriations
act for the fiscal year 1990 (Public Law 101-162), the judiciary will
be entitled to retain the fees collected for PACER services in the
bankruptcy courts. The Conference agreed to seek similar
legislative language to permit the judiciary to retain the fees
collected for district court PACER services.
                     COURT-ANNEXED ARBITRATION
             Title IX of the Judicial Improvements and Access to Justice
     Act (Public Law 100-702) provided statutory authorization for the
1    current ten-district court-annexed arbitration program. It also
1    authorized ten additional courts to establish programs of
b    arbitration by consent of the parties.
t
tt
             The Judicial Conference approved for inclusion in the
i
     consensual arbitration program the Northern and Western Districts
i    of New York, the Western District of Pennsylvania, the Eastern
     District of Texas, the Western District of Kentucky, the bankruptcy
r
     court of the Southern District of Indiana, the Eastern District of
i
     Washington, the District of Utah, and the Middle District of
     Georgia. The Conference delegated authority to the Committee
     to authorize a tenth court for future inclusion in the consensual
     arbitration program, and to replace any court that might withdraw.

          'TRAVEL REGLllATlONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES
t
             As noted supra p. 10, the Executive Committee amended
     the travel regulations for justices and judges to raise the
     alternative maximum actual subsistence expense allowance to
     $175 per day. Effective March 13, 1990, the Conference in
     plenary session further increased the $175 maximum to $225 per
     day, with annual increases authorized to account for future
     inflation.

             In addition, observing that it would be appropriate for
     judges to receive local subsistence at irregular and special
     conferences such as meetings of Judicial Conference committees
     or circuit judicial conferences, the Conference voted to seek
     amendments to 28 U.S.C. 456(a) and 604(a)(7) to authorize
     payment of subsistence and local travel expenses to judicial
     officers when conducting official business (not ordinarily
     performed in the daily conduct of official duties) at their official
     stations.
           COMPUTER-ASSISTED LEGAL RESEARCH

        Computer-assisted legal research (CALR) is now widely
used by the bench, bar, and public. Accordingly, the Conference
agreed to adopt a policy encouraging courts to allow the use of
parallel electronic citations to federal court opinions.

                NATURALIZATION PROCEEDINGS

         Both the House and Senate in the 101st Congress have
passed separate bills (Title II of S. 358; H.R. 1630) that would
shift the substantial administrative responsibilities of the courts in
the current naturalization process to the lmmigration and
Naturalization Service, including the oath ceremony (unless the
alien asks for a court oath ceremony).

       At the Committee's direction, a survey was conducted of
the chief judges and clerks of court of the fourteen districts in
which two-thirds of the total petitions for naturalization are filed.
After obtaining comments, the Committee recommended that the
Judicial Conference support these bills in principle, and also
propose:

1.      an amendment to relieve clerks of additional routine
        record-keeping responsibilities;

2.     an amendment to provide a period of 45 days after
       certification by the INS to a court of the eligibility of an
       alien for citizenship, during wtiich the court would have
       exclusive jurisdiction to conduct the naturalization
       ceremony, all or part of such period to be subject to
       waiver by the court on an individual, group, or across-
       the-board basis as provided by local rule or otherwise; and

3.     that the legislative history of the bills emphasize the
       fundamental interest in a dignified, citizenship-oriented
       ceremony similar to current judicial ceremonies, and
       encourage the lmmigration and Naturalization Service to
I
I
i
i          develop a model plan that would include coordination with,
           and participation of, federal judges interested in enhancing
tF         the effectiveness of the administrative naturalization
           ceremony.
!
t
     The Conference voted to support the recommendations.
L
t              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
i
I             JUDICIARY SALARY PLAN MODIFICATIONS
            On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial
     Resources, the Judicial Conference approved the following
     modifications to the Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP):

     1.    Establishing an organizational structure for a JSP-15 chief
           deputy position (JSP-16 if meeting criteria for consolidated
           courts) and up to two JSP-14 mid-managerial positions,
           exclusive of appropriately classified deputy-in-charge
           positions, in courts where the clerk of court or chief
           probation officer position warrants a grade JSP-17
           classification.

     2.    Deleting from the jury administrator classification standard
           the requirements that courts must have five or more
           judicial officers and hold 50 or more jury trials to be
           authorized a JSP-10 position.

     3.    Eliminating the "career" designation requirement for
           appointment or promotion of law clerks and staff attorneys
           to JSP-13 and JSP-14. For retirement purposes only, the
           Conference reaffirmed its March, 1987 resolution (Conf.
           Rpt., p. 11), that an individual hired in one of these
           positions for a period understood to be less than four
           years shall be appointed as a "term" employee and subject
           only to contributions for social security, not federal
           retirement.
I
    4.     Establishing the position of deputy circuit executive, grade
           JSP-15, in each circuit executive's office, with no additional
I
!          personnel to be assigned for this purpose, or additional
I          promotions authorized where an administrative assistant to
           the circuit executive currently holds the JSP-15 grade.
i
    5.     Reclassifying circuit librarian positions from JSP-14 to JSP-
           15.

i   6.     Establishingfour automation-related positionclassifications
           to support personal computer-based automation efforts:
           supervisor, JSP-12; PC system administrator, JSP-11;
           automation support specialist, JSP-9; and depot
I          maintenance technician, JSP-9.
                    EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION PLAN

            Section 604(a)(22) of title 28 authorizes the Director of the
    Administrative Office, under the supervision of the Judicial
    Conference, to establish an Employee Recognition Program for
    judicial branch employees On the Committee's recommendation,
    the Conference approved an Employee Recognition Plan,
    including special service awards, quality step increases, and the
    recently-approvedlongevity bonus program (see September 1989
    session, Conf. Rpt., p. 72).

               "SAVED GRADE AND SAVED PAY' POLICY

            On March 14, 1989 (Conf. Rpt., p. 21), the Judicial
    Conference approved a "saved grade and saved pay" policy for
    judiciary employees whose positions are abolished and who are
    qualified for, and selected for, lower graded positions in the
    judiciary. At this session, the Conference amended the policy to
    apply prospectively only, from the date the policy was enacted in
    March, 1989.

           BANKRUPTCY WORK MEASUREMENT FORMULA

            The Conference endorsed two modifications of the
    bankruptcy work measurement formula, to revise thecredit given
    for divisional offices and to increase the credit for Chapter 13
    cases.
                         RESOLUTION
       The Conference passed the following resolution in
recognition of extraordinary performance by court employees to
ensure quick return of normal operations in courts affected by
Hurricane Hugo:
       The Judicial Conference of the United States notes
       the extraordinary performance and exemplary
       dedication to the federal court system of all the
       court employees in those courts that were affected
       by Hurricane Hugo. The Conference expresses
       special thanks to the employees of the federal
       courts in the United States Virgin Islands, Old San
       Juan and Hato Rey, Puerto Rico, and Charleston,
       South Carolina, where the devastating effects of the
       hurricane were felt most directly. The courage and
        hard work of the court employees in those
        locations helped to ensure the quick return of
       those courts to normal operations.
       By this resolution, the Conference recognizes the
       fine efforts of all employees involved and expresses
       its deepest appreciation.

See also "Miscellaneous Actions" of the Executive Committee,
supra p. 42.

      COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
              FEDERAL MAGISTRATES SYSTEM

           SALARIES OF PART-'1-IM E MAGISTRATES

        In accordance with the Ethics Reform Act of 1989 (Public
Law 101-194), full-time U.S. magistrates received a 7.9 percent
cost-of-living adjustment, effective February 1, 1990. By Judicial
Conference resolution of March, 1988 (Conf. Rpt., pp. 34-35),
part-time magistrates are authorized the same cost-of-living
adjustments granted to full-time magistrates, effective upon the
same date as the adjustments for full-time magistrates. As part
of the transition to the 1988 salary structure, the salaries of
certain part-time magistrates in the pre-1988 structure were
maintained at existing levels until further specific action of the
Conference.

        As approved, effective February 1, 1990, the new salary
structure is as follows:

              -
              Level                   Amount




       The Conference withheld the 7.9 percent cost-of-living
adjustments from magistrate positions compensated at frozen pay
levels $3,265, $4,354, $7,740, and $21,650 in the pre-1988
structure, except that, retroactive to February 1, 1990:

(a)    the salaries of the following part-time magistrate positions,
       previously frozen at $4,354 per annum, were increased to
       $4,444 per annum:

              Cape Girardeau, Missouri
              Vancouver, Washington
              Bellingham, Washington
              Dublin (or Statesboro), Georgia; and

(b)    the salaries of the following part-time magistrate positions,
       previously frozen at $21,650 per annum, were increased to
       $22,218 per annum:
                Erie, Pennsylvania
                Midland (or Odessa), Texas
                Hot Springs, Arkansas
                Oklahoma City,Oklah~ma.~

            CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE POSITIONS

        After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the
district courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the
Conference approved the following changes in salaries and
arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrate positions.
Unless otherwise indicated, these changes are to be effective
when appropriated funds are available.

                         FIRST CIRCUIT

Massachusetts:

       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
Cape Cod National,Seashore from $4,354 per annum to $4,444
per annum, retroactive to February 1, 1990.

Rhode Island:

1.     Established a part-time magistrate position at Providence
       at a salary of $31,105 per annum, in lieu of the
       clerkfmagistrate position; and

2.     Continued the authorrty of the clerk of court to perform
       magistrate duties for an additional four-year term, but
       discontinued such authority upon appointment of the part-
       time magistrate.


              The part-time magistrate position at Jackson,
Tennessee, was erroneously included by the Judicial Conference
in this category. However, in March, 1989 (Conf. Rpt., p. 28),
the Judicial Conference increased the salary of this position to
level 10 of the part-time magistrate structure. In accordance with
the new salary structure (see above), the salary of that position
is currently $26,662.
                             SECOND CIRCUIT

1    New York, Northern:

Ii   1.    Converted the part-time magistrate position at Watertown
           to a full-time position at that location;
I
     2.    Authorized a part-time magistrate position to serve the
I
I
           court at Syracuse or Utica at a salary of $44,436 per
I          annum; and

     3.    Continqed the part-time magistrate position at Plattsburgh
           for an additional four-year term and increased the salary
           of the position from $4,354 per annum to $6,665 per
           annum.

     New York, Southern:

           Authorized an additional full-time magistrate position to
           serve the court at New York City.

     New York, Western:

           Authorized an additional full-time magistrate position to
           serve the court at Buffalo (or Rochester).

                             THIRD CIRCUIT

     Pennsylvania, Middle:

     1.    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Stroudsburg
           for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
           salary of $17,774 per annum; and

     2.    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Williamsport
           for an additional four-year term and increased the salary
           from $4,354 per annum to $4,444 per annum, retroactive
           to February 1, 1990.
     Pennsylvania, Western:
            Continued the part-time magistrate position at Erie for an
            additional four-year term but deferred action on any
            change in the salary of the position for the new term.

EI   Virgin Islands:
            Converted the part-time magistrate position at Christiansted
            to a full-time position at that location.
                              FOURTH CIRCUIT

     Maryland:
            Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
            Salisbury (and Assateague Island National Seashore) from
            $4,354 per annum to $4,444 per annum, retroactive to
            February 1, 1990.

     West Virginia, Southern:   .
            Made no change in the status of the part-time magistrate
            position at Beckley/Bluefield.

                                FIFTH CIRCUIT
     Louisiana, Western:

     1.     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Lafayette (or
            Opelousas) for an additional eight-year term; and
     2.     Made no change in the status of the part-time magistrate
            position at Lafayette (or Opelousas).
     Texas, Northern:

     1.     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Fort Worth
            for an additional eight-year term;
     2.    Continued the part-time magistrate position at San Angelo
           for an additional four-year term and increased the salary
           from $2,264 per annum to $6,665 per annum; and
ii
t

i    3.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Abilene for
i           an additional four-year term and increased the salary from
i           $2,264 per annum to $6,665 per annum.

1I   Texas, Western:
I    1.    Continued the full-time magistrate position at El Paso
           which is due to expire on January 25, 1991, for an
           additional eight-year term;

     2.    Continued the full-time magistrate position at Del Rio for
           an additional eight-year term; and

     3.    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
           Big Bend National Park from $16,468 per annum to
           $26,662 per annum.

                             SIXTH CIRCUIT

     Kentucky, Eastern:
           Continued the part-time magistrate position at Covington
           for an additional four-year term and increased the salary
           from $12,351 per annum to $35,549 per annum.

     Tennessee, Eastern:

     1.    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate position to
           serve the court at Knoxville (or Chattanooga); and

     2.    Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Sevierville
           (or Gatlinburg), effective upon the appointment of the new
           full-time magistrate.
Tennessee, Western:

      Converted the part-time magistrate position at Jackson to
      a full-time position to serve the court at Jackson or
      Memphis.
                       SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Wisconsin, Eastern:

1.    Continued the full-time magistrate position at Milwaukee
      which is due to expire on December 29, 1991, for an
      additional eight-year term; and

2.    Continued .the part-time magistrate position at Green Bay
      for an additional four-year term but decreased the salary
      from $4,354 per annum to $2,444 per annum, effective
      upon commencement of the new term.
                        EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Arkansas, Eastern:
      Authorized a fourth full-time magistrate position to serve
      the court at Little Rock.

Arkansas, Western:

1.    Continued the part-time magistrate position at El Dorado
      for an additional four-year term and increased the salary
      from $2,264 per annum to $4,444 per annum; and

2.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Harrison for
       an additional four-year term and increased the salary from
       $4,354 per annum to $4,444 per annum, retroactive to
       February 1, 1990.

Iowa, Northern:
       Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position
       at Sioux City at the current level of $3,265 per annum until
       further specific action on the position.
1     Iowa, Southern:
I *
                Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
                Burlington from $4,354 per annum to $4,444 per annum,
                retroactive to February 1, 1990.

      Minnesota:
I
                Continued the part-time magistrate position at Bemidji for
                an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
                salary of $2,444 per annum.
i     Nebraska:

             Continued the part-time magistrate position at North Platte
             for an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
             salary of $2,444 per annum.
      South Dakota:

             Continued the part-time magistrate position at Aberdeen
             for an additional four-year term and increased the salary
             from $3,265 per annum to $4,444 per annum.


      Alaska:
                Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
                Kodiak from $3,265 per annum to $4,444 per annum.

      Arizona:
      1.     Authorized a full-time magistrate position at Flagstaff;

      2.        Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Flagstaff
                upon the appointment of the full-time magistrate at that
                location;
3.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Grand
         Canyon National Park upon the expiration of the current
         term or upon the appointment of the full-time magistrate at
         Flagstaff, whichever is later;

4.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Window
         Rock (or Holbrook) upon the expiration of the current
         term; and

5.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate position at Kingman.

California, Northern:
         Continued the part-time magistrate position at Eureka for
         an additional four-year term and increased thejsalary of
         the position from $4,354 per annum to $4,444 per annum,
         retroactive to February 1, 1990.
California, Eastern:
1.       Continued the part-time magistrate position at Yreka for an
     ,   additional four-year term and increased the salary from
         $3,265 per annum to $4,444 per annum; and
2.       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
         Susanville from $3,265 per annum to $15,553 per annum
         for a four-month period commencing April 1, 1990, with a
         reduction to $6,665 per annum thereafter.

California, Central:
         Continued the part-time magistrate position at Palm
         Springs (or Twentynine Palms) for an additional four-year
         term and increased the salary from $4,354 per annum to
         $4,444 per annum, retroactive to February 1, 1990.

Montana:

1.   '   Continued the part-time magistrate position at Helena for
         an additional four-year term and increased the salary from
         $4,354 per annum to $6,665 per annum;
2.    lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
      Missoula from $3,265 per annum to $4,444 per annum;
      and

3.    Continued the part-time magistrate position at Cut Bank for
      an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
      salary of $2,444 per annum.

Oregon:

1.    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
      Bend from $3,265 per annum to $4,444 per annum; and

2.    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
      Pendleton from $4,354 per annum to $4,444 per annum,
      retroactive to February 1, 1990.

Washington, Eastern:

      Continued the patt-time magistrate position at Yakima for
      an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
      salary of $26,662 per annum.

                       'TENTH CIRCUIT

Colorado:

      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Colorado
      Springs for an additional four-year term at the currently
      authorized salary of $44,436 per annum.

New Mexico:

1.    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
      Alamogordo from $3,265 per annum to $6,665 per annum;

2.    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at
      Santa Fe from $4,354 per annum to $4,444 per annum,
      retroactive to February 1, 1990; and
    3.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate position at    L




            Farmington from $4,354 per annum to $4,444 per annum,
            retroactive to February 1, 1990.


B   Oklahoma, Western:

    1.      Continued the full-time 'magistrate position at Oklahoma
            City which is due to expire on December 12, 1991, for an
            additional eight-year term;

    2.      Reaffirmed the need for four full-time magistrate positions
            in the district; and

    3.      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Lawton for
            an additional four-year term at the currently authorized
            salary of $44,436 per annum.
    Utah:
    1.      Continued the full-time magistrate position at Salt Lake City
            for an additional eight-year term;

    2.      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Salt Lake
            Cty for an additional four-year term at the currently
            authorized salary of $44,436 per annum;
    3.      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Cedar City
            for an additional four-year term and increased the salary
            from $3,265 per annum to $4,444 per annum;

    4.      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Vernal (or
            Roosevelt) for an additional four-year term and increased
            the salary from $3,265 per annum to $4,444 per annum;
            and
    5.      Continued the part-time magistrate position at Monticello
            (or Moab) for an additional four-year term and increased
            the salary from $4,354 per annum to $4,444 per annum,
            retroactive to February 1, 1990.
Wyoming:

       Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate position
       at Sheridan at the current level of $3,265 per annum until
       further specific action on the position.

                      ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Florida, Southern:

1.     Authorized two additional full-time magistrate positions to
       serve the court at Miami;

2.     Continued the full-time magistrate position at Miami which
       expires on September 11, 1991, for an additional eight-
       year term; and

3.     Continued the part-time magistrate position at Fort Pierce
       for an additional four-year term and increased the salary
       from $3,265 per annum to $4,444 per annum.

           COMMFllEE ON PACIFIC TERRITORIES

        The Committee on Pacific Territories reported on legal
developments in the Pacific Islands and progress on pending
legislation of interest to the Committee.


                  COMMlllEE ON RULES
              OF PRACTlCE AND PROCEDURE

                        CRIMINAL RULES

         The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure
submitted to the Conference proposed amendments to Rules 5
("Initial Appearance Before the Magistrate"), 41 (a) ("Search and
Seizure"), and 54 ("Application and Exception"), and new Rule 58
("Procedure for Misdemeanors and Other Petty Offenses") of the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, together with Committee
notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference
approved them for transmission to the Supreme Court for
consideration, with the recommendation that they be approved by
the Court and transmitted t? the Congress pursuant to law.

        In addition, the Conference was informed that Congress is
considering, as part of%. 1171, 1Olst Congress, an amendment
to Rule 24(b) of the -Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure to
equalize the number of peremptory challenges available to the
defense and the prosecution. The Conference agreed to advise
the Congress that, in its view; the Rules Enabling Act is the
appropriate vehicle for amendment of Rule 24(b). The Congress
will also be advised that a similar amendment has. already been
circulated to the bench and bar for comment by the Advisory
Committee on the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.

          COMMITIEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
                         RESOLUTIONS

         On recommendation of the Committee on Space and
Facilities, the Judicial Conference approved the following
resolution conveying the sympathy of the judiciary to Mrs. Helen
Vance on the recent and tragic death of Judge Robert I;. Vance,
chairman:

             The Judicial Conference notes with sadness
       the death of the

               Honorable Robert S. Vance

       on December 16, 1989, in Birmingham, Alabama.
       Judge Vance served with distinction as a United
       States Circuit Judge. He also served the judiciary
       as the first Chairman of the Judicial Conference
       Committee on Space and Facilities. During his
       tenure as Chairman, Judge Vance was responsible
       for initiating a review and examination of court
       space standards, gaining endorsement by the
       Judicial Conference of legislation which would
       provide the judiciary with independent real property
       authorities, and initiating a program which will
       provide a standard method for projecting the
       judiciary's space needs.

       The members of the Judicial Conference and the
       Committee on Space and Facilities convey their
       deepest sympathies to Judge Vance's family and
       request that this resolution be sent to his widow,
       Helen Vance, as a sign of their affection and
       respect.
       The Conference also resolved to request that Congress
enact legislation designating the United States Courthouse at
1800 Fifth Avenue North, in Birmingham, Alabama, as the Robert
Smith Vance United States Courthouse.

            AD HOC COMMITIEE ON CAMERAS
                 IN M E COUFllROOM

       The Ad Hoc Committee on Cameras in the Courtroom
reported on its progress in reviewing the current rules governing
cameras in federal courtrooms. The Committee will receive
presentations from media representatives later this spring, and
transmit final recommendations for Conference action in
September, 1990.
                           FUNDING

       All of the foregoing recommendations which require the
expenditure of funds for implementation were approved by the
Conference subject to the availability of funds, and subject to
whatever priorities the Conference might establish for the use of
available resources.
        On behalf of the Judicial Conference, the Executive
Committee adopted the following resolutions in appreciation of
Judge John C. Godbold and Chief Judge Levin H. Campbell, as
follows:

             The Judicial Conference of the United States
       recognizes with appreciation, respect and
       admiration, the

              Honorable John C. Godbold,

       Director of the Federal Judicial Center from August
       1, 1987 to March 24, 1990.

               Judge Godbold has made innumerable
       contributions to the judiciary and the Nation as a
       Judge of the Ur~itedStates Court of Appeals for the
       Fifth Circuit from 1966 to 1981, serving as its Chief
       Judge for seven.months prior to becoming Chief
       Judge of the new Eleventh Circuit on October 1,
       1981. He thus began his service as a member of
       the Judicial Conference as the Chief Judge of the
       Fifth Circuit in 1981, and completed his Conference
       membership as the Chief Judge of the Eleventh
       Circuit in 1986. He was appointed as the Director
       of the Federal Judicial Center in 1987, and his
       substantial contributions continued throughout his
       two and one-half years as the Director of the
       Federal Judicial Center.

                By his appointment as the Director of the
        Federal Judicial Center, Chief Justice Rehnquist
       and the Center's Board of Directors clearly
       demonstrated their respect for and confidence in
       Judge Godbold's leadership abilities. He brought
       a rich understanding of the federal courts and the
       judicial process, drawing not only on his career as
       one of the country's leading jurists, but also on his
       prior experience as a member of the Board of the
Center from 1976 to 1981. He carried on the
tradition of excellence established by his four
predecessors at the Center with skillful and
distinguished leadership.

        While we will miss his friendship and
counsel at Judicial Conference sessions, we are
proud to acknowledge his dedicated service to the
judiciary in this capacity, and we extend our
sincere gratitude and esteem t o Judge and Mrs.
Godbold as they return to the Eleventh Circuit. We
hope and anticipate that they will both continue
their association with the Judicial Conference and
the Federal Judicial Center in the years to come.



      The Judicial Conference of the United States
recognizes with appreciation, respect and
admiration, the    .

       Honorable Levin H. Campbell,

Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals
for the First Circuit, 'and a member o f ' this
Conference from March 31, 1983, until he
completes his term on March 31, 1990.

        During his career on the federal bench,
Judge Campbell has served the Conference in
many capacities, including membership on the
Committees on Court Administration and the
Bicentennial of the Declaration of Independence.
He chaired the Subcommittee on Supporting
Personnel for three years just prior to becoming the
Chief Judge of the First Circuit and a member of
the Judicial Conference. Former Chief Justice
Burger, recognizing Judge Campbell's wise counsel
and stewardship, appointed him to the Executive
Committee of the Conference in 1985. Chief
Justice Rehnquist extended his appointment on the
Executive Committee in 1987. He also called on
       Judge Campbell to serve on the Committee to
       Study the Judicial Conference in 1986, and on the
       congressionally-mandated Federal Courts Study
       Committee in 1988.       Recently, Chief Justice
       Rehnquist has asked Judge Campbell to serve
       further, as a member of the Committee to Review
       Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders.

                Judge Campbell has carried out his
       responsibilities to the Conference, the Executive
       Committee, and the First Circuit with great skill and
       distinction. His numerous appointments clearly
       demonstrate that he has earned the confidence
       and respect of two Chief Justices, as well as his
       many colleagues and friends on the Conference
       and its committees. While we will miss his wisdom
       and friendship during the sessions of the Judicial
       Conference, we congratulate him on a successful
       and rewarding career as a member of the
       Conference and as the Chief Judge of the First
       Circuit.

             We extend our sincere gratitude and esteem
      to Judge and Mrs. Campbell, and we will look
      forward to their association with the Judicial
      Conference in the years to come.


      Noting the deaths of Judges Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr.,
Jean Galloway Bissell, and Philip Nichols, Jr., the Conference
adopted the following resolutions:
             The Judicial Conference of the United States
       notes with deep sadness the death of the

         Honorable Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr.,
       on November 22, 1989, in Greenville, South
       Carolina.
        Judge Haynsworthwas a summa cum laude
graduate of Furman University and a graduate of
the Harvard Law School. He practiced law in one
of the leading firms of South Carolina in which he
was of the fifth generation to bear his family name.
He served as a circuit judge of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit since 1957,
as its Chief Judge for 17 years, and as a member
of this Conference for 17 years. He knew each of
his brothers on the Fourth Circuit intimately and
 had the qualities of mind and of character that
 ensured a collegial bench. As his successor,
former Chief Judge Harrison L. Winter stated, his
 brothers thought of Judge Clement Haynsworth as
 "the judge first in our hearts". Judge Haynsworth
was truly a sensitive, highly intelligent person who
 conducted himself throughout his life with great
 dignity and courage.

        The members of the Judicial Conference
convey their sympathies to Judge Haynsworth's
widow, Dorothy Haynsworth, and to his family, and
ask that this Resolution be sent to them as a token
of their profound respect and affection for Judge
Haynsworth.



      The Judicial Conference of the United States
notes with sadness the death of the

     Honorable Jean Galloway Bissell,
on February 4, 1990, in Washington, D.C.

        Judge Bissell served with distinction as a
United States Circuit Judge on the United States
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit from
September 4, 1984, until her untimely death. She
was greatly loved by her colleagues, and her
indelible contributions to the collegiality of that
court will long survive her passing.
        Judge Bissell brought.to the court broad
experience gained in the private practice of law, in
the teaching of. law, and in the leadership of a
major banking corporation. She was an extremely
productive appellate judge, and her opinions
reflected both her exemplary judicial temperament
and her comprehensive knowlsdge of legal and
commercial matters.

       Judge Bissell also servedon the Committee
on the Judicial Branch, where she.made important
contributions toward the restoration of judicial
compensation to its rightful place in the hierarchy
of constitutional values.

        The members of the Judicial Conference
convey their deepest sympathies to Judge Bissell's
family and request that this Resolution be sent to
her widower, Gregg C. Bissell, as a sign of their
affection and respect.



      The Judicial Conference of the United States
notes with sadness the death of the

      Honorable Philip Nichols, Jr.,

on January 26, 1990, in Washington, D.C.

       Judge Nichols served with distinction as a
United States Circuit Judge on the United States
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit from its
founding until his death, when he was serving as
a senior judge. His distinguished judicial career
spanned more than 25 years, and included service
as a Judge of the United States Customs Court
and as a Judge of the United States Court of
Claims. He is remembered by his colleagues as
the kindest of men and the most patient of judges.
              Judge Nichols's long and rewarding career
       also included the private practice of law in Boston,
       Massachusetts. military service as a Naval officer
       during World War Ill and extensive service in the
       Executive Branch culminating as the Commissioner
       of Customs.

              The members of the Judicial Conference
       convey their deepest sympathies to Judge
       Nichols's family and request that this Resolution be
       sent to his widow, Dorothy Jackson Nichols, as a
       sign of their affection and respect.

             RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTlON

       The Conference authorized the immediate release of
matters considered at this session where necessary for legislative
or administrative action.




      On arch 26, 1990, by mail vote, the Conference elected
to membership on the Board of the Federal Judicial Center Judge
Diana Murphy, for a four-year term commencing March 28, 1990.




                            h&gibl@4tTf"
                             Chief Justice of   e United St tes
April 16, 1990
                                          Presiding
                                                          u
