                  REPORT OF TEE PROCEXDINGS OF TEE
            JUDICIAL CONFERJBJCE OF THE UNITED STATES


                              September 22, 1992


        The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
D.C., on September 22, 1992,pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
United States issued under 28 U.S.C. 5 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
the following members of the Conference were present:

       First Circuit:

               Chief Judge Stephen G. Breyer
               Judge Francis J. Boyle,
                      District of Rhode Island

       Second Circuit:

               Chief Judge 'Thomas J. Meskill
               Chief Judge Charles L. Brieant,
                      Southern District of New York

      Third Circuit:

               Chief Judge Dolores K. Sloviter
               Chief Judge John F. Gerry,
                      District of New Jersey

       Fourth Circuit: -.

               Chief Judge Sam J. Ervin, Ill
               Judge W. Earl Britt,
                      Eastern District of North Carolina

       Fifth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Henry A. Politz
               Chief Judge Morey L. Sear,
                      Eastern District of Louisiana
Sixth Circuit:

       Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt
       Judge Edward H. Johnstone,
              Western District of Kentucky

Seventh Circuit:

        Chief Judge William J. Bauer
        Chief Judge Barbara B. Crabb,
               Western District of Wisconsin

Eighth Circuit:

        Chief Judge Richard S. Arnold
        Chief Judge Donald E. O'Brien,
               Northern District of Iowa

Ninth Circuit:

        Chief Judge J. Clifford Wallace
        Chief Judge William D. Browning,
               District of Arizona

Tenth Circuit:

        Chief Judge Monroe G. McKay
        Judge Richard P. Matsch,
               District of Colorado

Eleventh Circuit:

        Chief Judge Gerald 6. Tjoflat
        Judge Anthony A. Alaimo,
               Southern District of Georgia

District of Columbia Circuit:

        Chief Judge Abner J. Mikva
        Chief Judge John Garrett Penn,
               District of Columbia
       Federal Circuit:

              Chief Judge Helen W. Nies

       Court of International Trade:

              Chief Judge Dominick L. DiCarlo

        Circuit Judges Douglas H. Ginsburg, Deanell R. Tacha, and William W.
Wilkins, Jr.; and District Judges Lloyd D. George, Robert E. Keeton, Stanley
Marcus, Robert M. Parker, Sam C. Pointer, Jr., and Rya W. Zobel attended the
Conference sessions. Circuit Executives Vincent Flanagan, Steven Flanders,
John P. Hehman, Samuel W. Phillips, Lydia Comberrel, James A. Higgins, Collins
T. Fitzpatrick, June L. Boadwine, Gregory B. Walters, Eugene J. Murret, Norman
E. Zoller, and Linda Finkelstein were also present at Conference sessions.

        Congressman William Hughes, Chairman of the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Administration of Justice,
spoke to the Conference on matters pending in Congress of interest to the
judiciary. The Solicitor General of the United States, Kenneth Starr, addressed
the Conference on matters of mutual interest to the Department of Justice and
the Conference.

       L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, attended the sessions of the Conference, as did James E.
Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General Counsel; Robert
E. Feidler, Legislative and Public Affairs Officer; Karen Siegel, Chief, Judicial
Conference Secretariat; Wendy Jennis, Deputy Chief, Judicial Conference
Secretariat; and David A. Sellers, Public Information Officer. Judge William W
Schwarzer and Russell R. Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal
Judicial Center, also attended the sessions of the Conference, as did Robb
Jones, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice; Richard Schickele, Supreme
Court Staff Counsel; and Margaret Farrell, Marjorie McCoy, and Mark
Rosenbaum, Judicial Fellows.

     REPORT OF THE DIRECI'OR OF THE ADMINSTRATIVE OFFICE
                 OF THE IJNITED STATES COURTS

       The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
L. Ralph Mecham, presented to the Conference a report on the activities of the
agency and the workload of the federal judiciary during the year ended
June 30, 1992.
                      JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

         Mr. Mecham reported that during 1992, total filings in the regional courts
of appeals rose nine percent to a record high of 46,032. The overall increase
in appeals resulted in part from a ten percent growth in criminal appeals from
the U.S. district courts. Two major factors contributed to this increase:
enactment of the sentencing guidelines, which provide for appeals of convictions
as well as sentences imposed, and drug-related appeals, which comprised 54
percent of the total criminal appeals filed. Appeals of the decisions of the
district courts on state and federal prisoner petitions rose 11 percent, and
appeals of bankruptcy cases increased 16 percent. Administrative agency cases
increased ten percent in 1992. The courts of appeals disposed of 42,933
appeals in 1992, an increase of four percent; appeals terminated on the merits
rose two percent. During 1992, the pending caseload in the regional courts of
appeals increased ten percent to 35,526, compared to a two percent increase
in 1991.

        Filings in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit increased 13
percent to 1,684, attributable to cases from the Merit Systems Protection Board
and from the Court of Veterans Appeals. Appeals disposed of in the Federal
Circuit rose seven percent to 1,519 this year. Since filings outnumbered
terminations, the pending caseload rose 21 percent.

          Reversing a declining trend begun in 1988, civil filings in the U.S. district
courts increased this year to 226,895 cases, up nine percent from 1991. Civil
filings involving the United States increased 20 percent to 63,310 cases; private
filings increased five percent to 163,585. Cases filed by the U.S. government
rose 35 percent, mostly attributable to an increase in actions to recover
defaulted student loans and overpayment of veterans' benefits. By contrast,
actions against the U.S. increased only slightly, up four percent to 26,212 filings.
Both federal civil rights (up 16 percent) and social security (up 9 percent) cases
contributed to this growth. Two major factors contributed to the increase in
private civil filings: a 23 percent rise in private civil rights cases and a 12
percent rise in state prisoner petitions. Offsetting these increases in private
civil filings was a six percent decrease in diversity of citizenship cases,
attributable to a significant decline in asbestos cases, which fell 42 percent in
1992. Action by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation had a considerable
effect on asbestos cases filed, terminated and pending last year. The Panel is
transferring asbestos cases pending in the U.S. district courts to the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania. Potential plaintiffs are delaying filing new asbestos
cases while awaiting the outcome of settlement discussions. Diversity filings
excluding asbestos cases remained essentially stable in 1992, suggesting that
the initial impact of the May 1989 increase in the jurisdictional amount in
diversity cases from $10,000 to $50,000 may be abating. Excluding asbestos,
civil cases terminated rose eight percent in 1992 while the pending caseload
increased five percent.

         During 1992, criminal filings in the U.S. district courts resumed the
decade-long growth that had stalled in 1991, rising six percent to 48,342 cases
(including transfers). The number of defendants charged increased five percent
to 68,187 in 1992. The increase is attributable in part to the focus on drug-
related crimes. Drug cases increased seven percent, although the composition
and locale of the cases is shifting from the Southern District of Texas, where
cases began to decline last year, to the Southern District of California, where
filings grew 46 percent in 1992. Weapons and firearms prosecutions increased
23 percent in 1992. Criminal cases terminated increased two percent to 43,493
in 1992. Since the number of filings outnumbered terminations during 1992, the
pending caseload rose 13 percent as of June 30, 1992.

         Bankruptcy filings rose ten percent in 1992, to 972,490; terminations
increased 19 percent over 1991, reaching 857,286 for the same period.
 Because filings outpaced terminations, the number of pending petitions rose by
 115,204 cases (ten percent) in 1992. The total pending caseload has now
 reached 1,237,357 petitions. The growth in bankruptcy filings was a result of a
 rapid rise in non-business filings, spurred primarily by an 11 percent increase in
 Chapter 7 liquidations and a nine percent increase in Chapter 13 adjustment
filings. Business filings rose seven percent in 1992. The growth resulted from
a three percent increase in Chapter 7 business filings, a six percent increase in
 Chapter 11 business reorganizations, a 25 percent increase in Chapter 13
 business debt adjustments, and a 20 percent increase in filings of family farmer
 business debt adjustments under Chapter 12.

       Mr. Mecham also reported that as of September 1, 1992, there were 19
vacancies among the 179 judgeship positions authorized for the United States
courts of appeals, 87 vacancies among the 649 positions authorized for the
United States district courts, and two vacancies on the United States Court of
International Trade.

                ACTIVI'I'IES OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

        Mr. Mecham reported that the fiscal year 1992 judiciary appropriation of
$2.339 billion did not include sufficient resources to meet the operational needs
of the Criminal Justice Act (CJA) panel attorney program. Although a
supplemental appropriation was requested in January 1992, Congress did not
act in time to prevent all available funds for payment of panel attorneys from
being exhausted on June 17, 1992. Pending approval of the supplemental
request, the Executive Committee of the Judicial Conference chose to fund panel
attorney payments out of monies drawn from other operations of the courts.
(See "Fiscal Year 1992 Financial Plan," i@a, p. 56.) This shift of funds had a
severe impact on other court functions.'

        Mr. Mecham also reported that, with regard to fiscal year 1993, the
House and Senate Appropriations Committees, operating under very low
allocations made to them under the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget
(House Con. Res. 287), would apparently deliver the toughest budgetary hit to
the judiciary since he became Director in 1985. The judiciary's FY 1993 request
was $2.836 billion, an increase of $470 million, or 20%, over FY 1992. Mr.
Mecham anticipated fiscal year 1993 appropriations from Congress to be at
substantially lower levels, such that the operations of the judiciary and its
services to the public during the year will be significantly im~aired.~

      Despite budgetary constraints, the Administrative Office (AO) achieved
some important accomplishments the past year in the following areas:

       Legislation - Key legislation enacted this year includes reform of the
       Judicial Survivors' Annuities System (JSAS), which broadens and
       enhances the JSAS; the creation of 35 new bankruptcy judgeships; and
       the passage of an omnibus court reform bill that addresses many areas
       supported by the Conference.

       Communications - A number of efforts to enhance communications
       between the A0 and the courts have been underway: (1) A task force
       of clerks, a circuit executive and A0 senior managers was formed to
       discuss ways of improving communications and cooperation; (2) In
       response to suggestions from court unit heads, guidelines designed to
       increase the effectiveness of the A0 advisory group structure were
       developed and are being implemented; (3) An A0 Publications Council
       was created to continue efforts to improve the quality, usefulness and
       effectiveness of A0 reports and publications; and (4) In order to
       implement effectively the recommendations of consultants on automation,
       a proposal for organizing and increasing user involvement in the
       automation development process was drafted and circulated for comment.




    ' The supplemental bill, appropriating $31.25 million for defender services,
was finally passed, and signed by the President on September 23, 1992.

       On October 6, 1992, the Presidentsigned a bill appropriating $2.47 billion
to the judiciary for PI 1993. This is approximately $370 million below the
judiciary's request and nearly $200 million below the amount needed to stay
even with the services provided in FY 1992.
a      Civil Justice Reform Act (CJRA) Implementation- The A0 and the Federal
       Judicial Center are jointly developing a model CJRA delay and expense
       reduction plan which gives examples of the types of programs the courts
       have adopted to implement the procedures and techniques outlined in
       the CJRA. 'The model plan also discusses problems, conditions, and
       other factors a court may consider when deciding whether a particular
       procedure or technique would be useful in that district.

a      Space and Facilities Program - Mr. Mecham reported that it appears that
       the judiciary's courthouse building program is the largest such federal
       program undertaken this century.       Currently, there are about 325
       construction and alteration projects underway, 70 of which are major
       renovations (exceeding prospectus level) in existing courthouses. It is
       also estimated that 135 new courthouses are needed.

a      Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) Study - The first three phases of the JSP
       study are now complete with the presentation of the National Academy
       of Public Administration's report and recommendations to the Judicial
       \




       Resources Committee in June 1992. 'The Committee accepted the report
       and directed the A0 to proceed with Phase IV of the study. During
       Phase IV, court managers will be developing a new classification system
       as well as the compensation and job qualification components of the
       JSP.

a      Federal Judiciary Building - The new Federal Judiciary Building was
       completed on time and under budget. The consolidation of judiciary
       agencies, including the A0 and the Federal Judicial Center, into one
       building will improve service to the courts and the public.

                   REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE
                      FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER

        The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Judge William W Schwarzer,
reported that, although at the time of the meeting the amount of the Center's
fiscal year 1993 appropriation was not yet known, it was expected to fall below
that of fiscal year 1992. The Center is suffering a proportionately larger cut in
its appropriation than are the courts.

       'The Center is making substantial efforts to maintain its core education
and research programs in the face of fiscal austerity. To that end the Center's
Board and staff have taken a number of actions to ensure that its resources are
applied in the most cost-effective ways. Among other things, the Center Board
has approved termination of the Center's tuition assistance program, which
subsidized individuals for job-related courses taken at universities and other
institutions. Most, of the subject matter of courses previously made available
through the tuition assistance program are covered by Center programs. The
needs of local court units will continue to be met by expanded local training
programs, which are far more cost-effective.

         The Center will continue to give priority to its education and training
mission, while also carrying out its statutory research and planning assistance
tasks. This requires constant assessment and reassessment of the priorities to
assign to the many demands of the Center. Currently, the Center allocates
about two-thirds of its budget for education and training (including supporting
activities such as publications, media, and enhanced educational technology),
divided about 60-40 between supporting personnel and judicial personnel. It
spends about 20 percent on research, eight percent on administration and five
percent on the history office, interjudicial affairs and long-range planning.

       As previously announced, during 1993, the Center will suspend for one
year the traditional regional and circuit workshops and instead offer a series of
national workshops, one for judges of the courts of appeals, three for district
judges, one for bankruptcy judges and one for magistrate judges. These
workshops will offer judges an opportunity to meet and exchange experiences
with other judges throughout the country and will enable the Center to offer a
more varied program.

        The Center continues to support the implementation of the Civil Justice
Reform Act. With assistance from the Committee on Court Administration and
Case Management, the Administrative Office and others, the Center is publishing
a Manual on Litigation Management and Expense and Delay Reduction, which
will serve as a reference source for individual judges. The Center is also
assisting the Committee with other CJRA tasks and will continue to conduct
seminars to assist courts and advisory groups in implementation.

         Judge Schwarzer noted that the Center is assisting the National
Commission on Judicial Discipline and Removal, headed by former
Congressman Robert Kastenmeier, with research into historical precedents and
the operation of the existing system for dealing with alleged judicial unfitness.
With the cooperation of the circuit judicial councils, Center staff will be examining
certain complaints and files within the limits of applicable confidentiality
restrictions. This research is considered of importance in helping the
Commission to evaluate the adequacy of the existing system.

        In April the Center, consistent with one of its statutory responsibilities,
cosponsored with the State Justice Institute the first national conference on
judicial federalism, attended by over 300 state and federal judges. That
conference is giving considerable impetus to efforts to advance state-federal
cooperation and coordination, and the Center is continui~gto promote and
assist such efforts, particularly in the organization and operation of state-federal
judicial councils.

        At its March meeting, the Conference approved the transfer to the Center
of unspent funds in the budget of the Conference Bicentennial Committee, to
support a new biographical directory of federal judges. The Center will send
judges an extensive data form that is designed to ensure consistency among
entries for judges who have served over the 200-year history of the federal
judiciary and allow production of a biographical directory equal in scope to that
currently available for the Congress.

        Judge Schwarzer thanked the Conference committee chairs and chief
circuit judges who participated in last March's long-range planning seminar
designed by the Center in cooperation with the Administrative Office. 'The
judges' comments during the seminar provided helpful lessons on long range
plar~rlingfor all those involved in the process. The Center is continuing to
provide planning support to the Committee on Long Range Planning and other
judicial branch units.

                           EXECUTIVE COMlbmmm

        Between Judicial Conference sessions, the Executive Committee took the
following actions on behalf of the Conference:

                      FISCAL YEAR 1992 FINANCIAL PLAN

        In light of deficiencies in the Defender Services appropriation for
payments to court-appointed attorneys and other persons providing investigative,
expert and other services under the Criminal Justice Act (see "Activities of the
Administrative Office," supra, p. 52), the Executive Committee revised the fiscal
year 1992 financial plan, initially placing certain funds in reserve from among
different program availabilities. Subsequently, anticipating Congressional
approval of a supplemental appropriations request, the Committee authorized the
"borrowing" of the reserved funds to pay panel attorneys. However, when it later
appeared that irreparable harm could occur to the public safety because funds
reserved from drug aftercare, contractual support for pretrial services, and
electronic monitoring programs were not available to those programs, the
Executive Committee identified alternative accounts from which funds could be
"borrowed" to pay panel attorneys (and others under the CJA) until the
supplemental request was appr~ved.~The Committee also approved a plan for
spending reserved funds after approval of the supplemental appropriations
request.

             IMPLIED CONSENT IN BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS

        The proposed Federal Courts Study Committee Implementation Act of
1992 (S. 1569, 102nd Congress) incorporated a Federal Courts Study Committee
(FCSC) recommendation to amend 28 U.S.C. 5 157(c) to allow a party in a non-
core, related bankruptcy proceeding to be deemed to have consented to a
bankruptcy judge's findings becoming final unless the party objects within 10
days after entry of the bankruptcy judge's findings (FCSC Report, April 2, 1990,
p. 76). The Executive Committee had endorsed this FCSC recommendation in
August 1990 (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 64), and now reaffirmed its endorsement in
concept; however, the Committee, on recommendation of the Committee on
Administration of the Bankruptcy System, agreed to support an alternative
amendment (to 28 U.S.C. 5 157(c)(l))which more clearly accomplishes the same
result.

       The Executive Committee declined to take action on an additional
recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee to make a potentially more
controversial amendment to 28 U.S.C. 5 157(c)(2) which would, in the absence
of objection, deem consent to a bankruptcy judge's final disposition of a non-
core bankruptcy proceeding. See "Implied Consent," infra, p. 61.

                     FEDERALIZATION OF STATE CRIMES

        Expressing opposition to a pronounced trend by Congress of federalizing
traditional state crimes, the Executive Committee agreed on behalf of the Judicial
Conference to oppose four bills pending in the 102nd Congress: The Child
Support Recovery Act of 1992, H.R. 1241; Farm Animal and Research Facilities
Protection Act of 1992, H.R. 2407; Anti-Car Theft Act of 1992, H.R. 4542; and
The Kahla Lansing Child Protection Act, S. 2065. Such a trend will negatively
impact on the ability of the federal courts to hear federal criminal prosecutions,
as well as carry out vital civil responsibilities in a timely manner.



        On behalf of the Judicial Conference, the Executive Committee adopted
the following resolution:



    3As noted, the judiciary supplemental appropriations bill was subsequently
signed by the President on September 23, 1992.
       The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
with appreciation, respect and admiration the Honorable

                   GEORGE E. MACKINNON

of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit.

        During his twenty-three years on the federal bench, Judge
 MacKinnon has served the judiciary and the nation in manifold
capacities. His service to the Judicial Conference and the
judiciary overall has included membership on the Committee on
Salaries from 1971 to 1972, the Subcommittee on Supporting
Personnel from 1973 to 1980, and the Committee on the
Administration of the Criminal Law from 1983 to 1987. In 1972,
the Judicial Conference elected Judge MacKinnon to serve on the
Board of Certification for Circuit Executives, where he continued
to serve until 1983. Retired Chief Justice Burger appointed him
to the three-judge Emergency Review Committee, which was
tasked with considering requests for exceptions to the restrictions
under the Gramm-Rudman-HollingsDeficit Reduction Act of 1985.
From 1979 to 1982, Judge MacKinnon served as the first
Presiding Judge of the United States Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court of Review. President Reagan appointed him
to the United States Sentencing Commission in 1985, where he
remained until October of 1991.

        Judge MacKinnon is now approaching the end of his third
term as the Presiding Judge of the Special Division of the U. S.
Court of Appeals in the District of Columbia, responsible for the
selection and appointment of independent counsel under the
Ethics in Government Act. As demonstrated by his numerous and
diverse appointments over the past two decades, it is clear that
Judge MacKinnon has enjoyed the confidence and trust of our
recent Presidents and Chief Justices alike. Judge MacKinnon has
carried out his responsibilities to the Conference, his court, and
the nation with skill, tact, and integrity. He has maintained high
standards as a dedicated public servant and has gained the
regard, respect and esteem of his colleagues in all three branches
of government.

      On behalf of the Judicial Conference and a grateful nation,
we extend congratulations and heartfelt appreciation for Judge
MacKinnonls many significant contributions to the administration
of justice in the United States and wish him well in all his future
endeavors.

                   MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

The Executive Committee:

Approved for transmission to Congress draft language concerning
"temporary" bankruptcy judgeships;

Revised the jurisdictional statements of the Committees on Court
Administration and Case Management and Long Range Planning, and
changed the name of the Committee on Judicial Ethics to the Committee
on Financial Disclosure;

Reaffirmed approval of a program permitting reimbursement of a judicial
nominee's travel expenses for attendance at a formal A0 orientation;

Approved a temporary increase in the salary of a part-time magistrate
judge in the District of New Mexico to enable the magistrate judge to
handle the workload of a deceased full-time magistrate judge until a
successor is appointed;

Opposed certain provisions of the Access to Justice Act (S. 2180 and
H.R. 4155, 102nd Congress), took no position on certain provisions and
referred one provision back to the Court Administration and Case
Management Committee for further study;

Approved transmittal to Congress of a report on the civil justice expense
and delay reduction plans developed and implemented by the United
States district courts as required by the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990
(Public Law No. 101-650);

Approved funding priorities with regard to the judiciary's fiscal year 1993
budget request in response to Congressional requests; agreed to
communicate with circuit chief judges and chairmen of "line" Conference
committees concerning Senate Appropriations Committee language
suggesting ways to economize; and decided to seek ideas from judges
on how to cope with the extremely tight fiscal year 1993 budget levels;

Agreed to consult with Conference committee chairs concerning whether
to make all committee reports accessible and agreed that background
materials will generally not be made available;
a      Agreed to seek an amendment to proposed Social Security legislation
       (H.R. 589, 102nd Congress) which would authorize the federal district
       courts (in addition to state courts which are already provided for in the
       bill) to use social security numbers for identification of individuals for jury
       selection;

a      Authorized the Judicial Conference Committee to Review the Criminal
       Justice Act to release its interim report to the public in advance of the
       Conference session;

a      Approved the agenda for the October 1992 Sentencing Institute for the
       Third, Seventh, and D.C. Circuits; and agreed to request the Criminal
       Law Committee to consider whether such training should be combined
       with other Federal Judicial Center programs; and

a      Continued its oversight of relations between the Administrative Office and
       the Federal Judicial Center.

             CO-             ON THE AD-TIVE                   OFFICE

       The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it has endorsed
proposed guidelines for Administrative Office advisory groups. In addition, the
Committee approved the recommendations of its Subcommittee on Report
Production, Publications, and Statistical Gatherings, which called for increased
coordination of existing statistical gathering systems; a comprehensive study of
the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures; a self-assessment of
Administrative Office reports and publications, including a solicitation of
suggestions from court personnel; and the creation of a catalog of
Administrative Office reports and publications.

           COMMTITX ON AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGY

                               I-IBRARY PROGRAM

       The Committee on Automation and Technology recommended the
voluntary use of a standard electronic citation system for opinions disseminated
on the Electronic Dissemination of Opinions System (EDOS). 'The Judicial
Conference declined to approve this recommendation.

       The Committee also proposed amendments to the lawbook list for
magistrate judges, which were approved by the Conference. The revised list will
be published in the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures.
COlMMlTEE ON THE AD-TION                      OF TBE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                               IMPLIED CONSENT

       The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
recommended that the Judicial Conference support an amendment to 28 U.S.C.
5 157(c)(2) to provide for implied consent to final deterrr~inationby a bankruptcy
judge in a non-core proceeding. Because of constitutional concerns raised,
the Conference disapproved the provision. See also "Implied Consent in
Bankruptcy Proceedings," supra, p. 57.

                       BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATORS

        Recent legislative changes necessitated amendments to the existing
"Regulations for the Bankruptcy Administrator Program," particularly in light
section 317(b) of the Federal Courts Study Committee Implementation Act of
1990 (Public Law No. 101-650) which granted standing to bankruptcy
administrators to file pleadings and briefs, and appear in court and be heard on
any issue in any case under Title 11, United States Code. The Judicial
Conference approved the Bankruptcy Committee's proposed amendments. The
Conference also approved the Committee's recommendation to require a full
field background investigation for future chapter 13 standing trustees and a
name check investigation for chapter 7 trustees in those districts served by the
bankruptcy administrator program.

                 PLACES OF HOLDING BANKRUPTCY COURT

       Upon request of the Judicial Council of the Eighth Circuit, the Judicial
Conference designated Fayetteville as an official duty station for a bankruptcy
judge in Arkansas.

                       CO-            ON TEE BUDGET
       ALTERNATIVE BUDGET REQUEST FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1994

        As in prior years, the Budget Committee anticipated the need to reduce
the judiciary's budget request below the full funding level due to Congressional
funding constraints in a period of large federal deficits. Thus, the Committee
recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved alternative, or lower,
budget requests for fiscal year 1994, subject to amendments necessary as a
result of (a) new legislation, (b) actions of the Conference or (c) other reasons
the Director of the Administrative Office considers necessary and appropriate,
not to exceed a total increase of 29 percent over the fiscal year 1993
appropriation.
               COMMHTEE ON THE CODES OF CONDUCI'
        Since its last report to the Conference in March 1992, the Committee
received 48 new written inquiries and issued 38 advisory responses. The
Chairman received and responded to 55 telephonic inquiries. In addition,
individual Committee members responded to 61 informal inquiries from their
colleagues.

            CODE OF CONDUCT FOR UNITED STATES JUDGES

        In August 1990, the American Bar Association approved a New Model
Code of Judicial Conduct. In light of this New Modelcode, the Committee on
the Codes of Conduct conducted a comprehensive review of the Judicial
Conference's Code of Conduct for United States Judges and recommended
revisions to the Code. These revisions are intended to provide more guidance
to judges in areas where experience has suggested the need for clarification.
The Judicial Conference approved the Committee's recommendations. The
Code of Conduct is published in the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures.

                                 RESOLUTION

      In appreciation of Judge Walter K. Stapleton, the Judicial Conference
adopted the following resolution:

              The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
       with appreciation, respect, and admiration the Honorable

                           WALTER K STAPLETON

       Chairman of the Committee on Codes of Conduct from
       November 20, 1987 to October 1, 1992.

               Judge Stapleton has played a vital role in the
       administration of the federal court system and has sewed as a
       leader while, at the same time, continuing to perform his judicial
       duties as a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the
       Third Circuit. He has demonstrated an unwavering faith in the
       judicial process, and his departure marks the end of a
       distinguished era of substantive changes that expanded the
       responsibilities and increased the effectiveness of the Comrr~ittee
       on the Codes of Conduct. Judge Stapleton shepherded the
       judiciary's implementation of the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, which
       included extensive work in drafting regulations which were
       adopted by the Judicial Conference. He also guided the
       Committee's review of the Code of Conduct for United States
       Judges and subsequent recommendations for substantial revisions
       to the Code. Finally, he spearheaded the Committee's work in
       preparing for publication a compendium summarizing over 1,000
       of its significant published and unpublished opinions interpreting
       the Code of Conduct and the Ethics Reform Act and regulations.
       He has set a standard of skilled leadership and has earned our
       deep respect and sincere gratitude for his innumerable
       contributions over the years.

               We acknowledge with appreciation his commitment to the
       federal judiciary as shown by his dedicated service to the Judicial
       Conference and the judiciary as a whole.

                COMMFlTEE ON COURT ADMINEJXATION
                      AND CAM3 MANAGENENT

        CLERICAL SUPPORT FOR PART-TIME MAGISTRATE JUDGES

       To promote a more uniform level of clerical support for part-time
magistrate judges who perform their duties in federal court space, the Judicial
Conference voted to encourage the district courts to provide to such part-time
magistrate judges the same level of administrative support afforded to full-time
magistrate judges, to the extent feasible.

                    VIDEOTAPING COURT PROCEEDINGS

        At its September 1988 session, the Judicial Conference authorized a two-
year experiment to test the use of videotape recordings as a method of taking
and reviewing the official record of court proceedings (JCUS-SEP 88, p. 83).
Although the completion date for the experiment as established by the
Committee on Court Administration and Case Management is December 31,
1992, the Committee believed that continued use of videotape beyond that date
should be permitted in order to avoid any gap in that practice in the event that
the Conference approves the use of videotape as a permanent option at its
September 1993 session. Thus, on recommendation of the Committee (pending
a Judicial Conference determination regarding the experiment in September
1993), the Conference authorized (1) participating district courts to continue the
use of the videotaping systems beyond the end of the two-year experiment; and
(2) participating appellate courts to continue to accept videotape as the record
on appeal from pilot district courts.
                       CERTIFICATION OF INTERPRETERS

        Upon request of the Judicial Councils of the Seventh and Ninth Circuits
for certification of interpreters in 12 additional languages, the Committee on
Court Administration and Case Management reviewed an analysis of the
interpreting needs of these circuits and examined a proposal by the University
of Arizona for the development of a more cost effective method for certifying
and qualifying interpreters. Pending the availability of funds, the Judicial
Conference approved the Committee's recommendation that the Conference
direct the Administrative Office to provide for full certification of interpreters in
Cantonese (Chinese), Ilocano, Korean, Mandarin (Chinese), Punjabi, Tagalog
and Vietnamese; for modified certification of interpreters in Armenian, Japanese,
Laotian and Polish; and for "Otherwise Qualified status in Mein.

                       BIAS IN THE FEDERAL JUDICIARY

         Concluding that bias, in all of its forms, presents a danger to the
effective administration of justice in federal courts, the Committee recommended,
and the Judicial Conference adopted, a resolution encouraging each circuit not
already doing so to sponsor educational programs for judges, supporting
personnel and attorneys to sensitize them to concerns of bias based on race,
ethnicity, gender, age and disability, and the extent to which bias may affect
litigants, witnesses, attorneys and all those who work in the judicial branch.
Further, the Judicial Conference voted to encourage each circuit to report to the
Committee on Court Administration and Case Management on action taken to
implement this resolution.

                             MISCELLANEOUS FEES

         Although the Judicial Conference schedules of fees for the appellate,
district and bankruptcy courts provide for a handling fee of $25 for a check paid
into the court and returned for lack of funds (28 U.S.C. §§ 1913, 1914), a
comparable provision was not included in the schedule of fees for the United
States Claims Court (28 U.S.C. § 1927). Because the rationale for assessing
such a fee exists equally in the Claims Court, the Conference approved a
Committee recommendation to amend the schedule of fees for the United States
Claims Court to include a $25 fee for checks paid into the Court which are
returned for lack of funds.

        In order to recover more effectively the full costs of noticing in the
bankruptcy courts, the Judicial Conference approved the collection of a
miscellaneous administrative fee of $30 in all chapter 7 and chapter 13 cases,
in lieu of noticing fees currently charged by the clerk of court under 28 U.S.C.
§ 1930(b). In addition, the Conference directed the Committee on the
Administration of the Bankruptcy System to study an alternative fee arrangement
which would assess a percentage fee on distributions made pursuant to plans
confirmed in chapter 11 and chapter 7 asset cases. If the results of the study
show that substantial funds could be raised by the chapter 11 and 7 asset case
fees, then such fees, upon approval of the Judicial Conference and Congress
(if appropriate), would replace the $30 miscellaneous administrative fee.

                       FILING FEE FOR CIVIL ACTIONS

       The civil filing fee was increased in 1978 from $15 to $60, and in 1986,
it was raised from $60 to $120. Upon recommendation of the Committee on
Court Administration and Case Management, the Conference supported an
amendment to 28 U.S.C. $ 1914(a) to increase the civil action filing fee from
$120 to $150.

               CLAIMS COLlRT TECHNICAL AND PROCEDURAL
                       IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1991

       At its March 1992 session, the Judicial Conference, upon
recommendation of the Committee, took no position on a provision of the draft
Claims Court Technical and Procedural Improvement Act of 1991, which would
have authorized judges of the Claims Court to hold evidentiary hearings in
foreign countries (JCUS-MAR 92, p. 18). This was done so that the position of
the State Department could be determined and assessed. Having considered
the position of the Departments of Justice and State, the Committee
recorr~mendedand the Conference approved support for that section of the Act
which authorized hearings in foreign countries, with the proviso that the section
be amended to include an interlocutory appeal provision, similar to that provided
in 28 U.S.C. $ 256(b) for the Court of International Trade.4

            COMMWlXE ON COURT AND JUDICIAL SECURITY

       In view of the importance of security for both judges and court staff, the
Judicial Conference endorsed a policy that the District Court Security
Committees, in conjunction with the United States Marshals Service, at least
every two years should present a program on security to all judicial officers and




     4'The "Federal Courts Administration Act of 1992" (Public Law No. 102-572),
signed by the President on October 29, 1992, renamed the Claims Court the
"Court of Federal Claims" and authorized the Court to issue orders permitting
evidentiary hearings in foreign countries. The new law also provides that an
interlocutory appeal may be taken from such an order.
court employees. The program,should be tailored to address local conditions
and should include a plan for dealing with civil unrest.

                         COMMITIEE ON CRIM][NAL LAW

       The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it heard from Judge William
W. Wilkins, Chairman of the United States Sentencing o om mission, concerning
the status of Judicial Conference recommendations to the Commission for
amendments to the guidelines. The Commission decided not to take any action
on recommendations related to departures from the sentencing guidelines in
view of a comprehensive report by the Commission that will be available during
the 1993 amendment cycle.

                   co-            ON DEFENDER SERVICES
           ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

        In light of the relative cost effectiveness of the federal defender program,
as well as the increasing complexity of criminal cases resulting in a decline in
the acceptable number of cases a single attorney can competently handle, the
Committee on Defender Services recommended removal of the requirement in
the Criminal Justice Act that a district have a minimum of 200 CJA appointments
annually in order to qualify for the establishment of a federal public or
community defender organization. The Judicial Conference approved this
recommendation and will seek legislation to accomplish this purpose. In the
absence of a statutory minimum caseload requirement, proposals to establish
federal defender organizations would continue to be reviewed for cost-
effectiveness and ability to meet the needs of the district served, including the
following factors: (1) the changing average caseload in a district; (2) the
prevalence or lack of qualified attorneys to serve on the panel; (3) the proximity
of court locations to each other; and (4) the nature of the district's caseload.

     REPRESENTATION FOR EMPLOYMENT-REIATED INVESTIGATIONS

       On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference voted to
support proposed legislation which would provide that the Director of the
Administrative Office shall reimburse federal public and community defender
organization employees for the costs of legal representation incurred as a result
of criminal or disciplinary investigations arising out of the employee's
performance of official duties, provided that such investigation does not result
in adverse action against the employee. The proposed legislation supported by
the Conference further provides that the Director of the Administrative ffice
may, in his or her discretion, reimburse panel attorneys and others providing
representational services pursuant to the CJA for legal costs incurred as a result
of a criminal or disciplinary investigation arising out of such person's conduct
in furnishing such representation or other services, provided that the
investigation does not result in an adverse action against the person.

             ANNUAL REPORTS OF ATTORNEY COMPENSATION

        In 1972, the Judicial Conference directed the Administrative Office to
produce a quarterly report on panel attorneys earning in excess of $1000 during
the reporting period (JCUS-APR 72, p. 21). In subsequent years the Conference
has increased the reporting period and the threshold amount (a semiannual
report of earnings above $6,000 (JCUS-OCT 72, p. 54); an annual report of
earnings above $12,000 (JCUS-SEP 76, p. 60-61); and an annual report of
earnings above $24,000 (JCUS-MAR 85, p. 31). Because increases in the costs
of representation have resulted in lengthy reports, the preparation of which took
substantial time, the Conference approved the Committee's recommendation to
modify, once again, the requirement for an annual report on CJA panel attorney
compensation in excess of $24,000 to include only those attorneys earning in
excess of $50,000 during the preceding year.

                    FUNDING OF FEDERAL PLlBLlC AND
                  COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

        Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR
89, p. 16), the Committee approved additional fiscal year 1993 funding for
federal public defender organizations totalling $6,412,309 in order to provide for
FY 1993 budget allocation increases for 25 of the 43 existing defender
organizatians and initial funding for ane defender organization newly authorized
far FY 1993. The Committee also approved FY 1993 budget allocation
increases totalling 1,582,566 for five of the nine traditional community defender
organizations. These increases resulted in revised FY 1993 totals of
$92,390,373 for federal public defender organizations and $24,270,372 for
traditional community defender organizations.



                                 RESOLUTION

       The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction recommended, and the
Judicial Conference adopted, the following resolution:
       The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
with respect, appreciation, and admiration the Honorable



      Whereas Thomas M. Reavley served as Chairman of the
Federal-State Jurisdiction Committee from March 30, 1990 until
May 5, 1992 and served as a member of the Committee from
November 20, 1987 until October 1, 1992, and as a member of
the Committee on Court Administration from 1984 to 1987; and

       Whereas during his tenure as Chairman of the Federal-
State Jurisdiction Committee Judge Reavley also served as
Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee on Asbestos Litigation and
the Ad Hoc Committee on Gender-Based Violence; and

      Whereas Judge Reavley has represented the Judicial
Conference before numerous committees of the United States
Congress on issues of importance to the federal judiciary; and

         Whereas Judge Reavley has worked tirelessly to foster and
strengthen the relationships between the federal and state
judiciaries; and

        Whereas Judge Reavley has provided outstanding service
to the federal judiciary through his inexhaustible energy and spirit;
his unfaltering commitment to excellence; and his unfailing
dedication and leadership; and

       Whereas Judge Reavley has touched each of us with his
warmth, kindness, intellect, humor, humility and unwavering belief
in the good of humanity; and

        Whereas Judge Reavley exemplifies the best of the federal
judiciary;

       Therefore be it resolved that the Judicial Conference of the
United States recognizes the outstanding service of Judge
Thomas M. Reavley and expresses our deep respect and
appreciation for his innumerable contributions over the years to
the Judicial Conference and the judiciary as a whole.
              COMMrrrEE ON ~              C       I   ASSIGNMENTS
                                                          R    ~

       The Committee on lntercircuit Assignments reported that during the
period January 1, 1992 through June 30, 1992, 79 intercircuit assignments were
recommended by the Committee and approved by the Chief Justice to be
undertaken by 56 Article Ill judges. Of this number, 16 were senior circuit
judges, three were active circuit judges, 26were senior district judges, six were
active district judges, one was a senior judge on the Court of International
Trade, and four were active judges on the Court of lnternational Trade.

                  CO-            ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

                        FEDERAL TRAVEL DISCLOSURE ACT

        The proposed "Federal Travel Disclosure Act of 1992 (H.R. 4530, 102nd
Congress) contains provisions which would, among other things, restrict the
availability of appropriated funds for official travel and require chief judges and
the Director of the Administrative Office to approve, maintain records, and file
reports on all official travel in the courts and other judicial branch agencies,
respectively. In response to Congressional inquiry, and on recommendation of
the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the Judicial Conference opposed
enactment of this legislation as drafted, on grounds that its provisions would
(1) impose unjustifiable administrative burdens; (2) unnecessarily require
advance clearance for travel plainly appropriate in purp0s.e and scope; (3)
create ambiguities regarding the availability of funds for official travel and the
travel authority of the Federal Judicial Center and the Sentencing Commission;
and (4) curtail judiciary access to the expertise found in other federal agencies.

                 COMMlITEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

       The Financial Disclosure Committee, formerly named the Committee on
Judicial Ethics (see "Miscellaneous Actions," supra, p. 59), reported that as of
June 1992 it had received 2,239 financial disclosure reports and certifications for
the calendar year 1991, including 1,022 reports and certifications from justices
and Article Ill judges, 283 from bankruptcy judges, 350 from magistrate judges,
and 584 from judicial employees.

                  COMMrrrEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES

                           ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS

       The Judicial Conference reviewed the results of the 1992 survey of
judgeship needs conducted by the Committee on Judicial Resources and
authorized the Administrative Office to transmit to Congress a request for nine
additional court of appeals judgeships, five additional permanent district court
judgeships, eleven additional temporary district court judgeships, and the
conversion of one roving district court position to permanent. Included in the
request for district court judgeships are six positions recommended by the
Judicial Conference in the last biennial judgeship survey but not authorized in
the last omnibus judgeship act.

       The creation of additional judgeships is recommended in the following
United States courts:

Courts of Appeals

              First Circuit
              Fifth Circuit
              Sixth Circuit
              Tenth Circuit

District Courts

       Second Circuit:

                  Connecticut                     1 temp
                  New York (Eastern)              1  + 1 temp
                  New York (Western)              1 temp

       Third Circuit:

                  Pennsylvania (Eastern)           1 temp
                  Virgin Islands                   1

       Fourth Circuit:

                  North Carolina (Western)         1 temp
                  South Carolina                   1 temp

       Fifth Circuit:

                  Louisiana (Middle)               1 temp
       Sixth Circuit:

               Kentucky (Eastern)                   1 rover to
                                                      permanent in
                                                      single district
               Kentucky (Western)                   1
               Ohio (Northern)                      1 temp

       Ninth Circuit:

              Arizona                               1 temp
              Nevada                                1
              Oregon                                1 temp

       Eleventh Circuit:

              Alabama (Middle)                      1 temp
              Florida (Middle)                      1

       The Judicial Conference authorized transmittal to the Congress of
detailed data showing the impact of eliminating or limiting diversity jurisdiction
on the judgeship requirements of the U.S. district courts.

                   FISCAL YEAR 1994 BUDGET REQUESTS
                       FOR SUPPOR'TING PERSONNEL

       The Judicial Conference reviewed requests for fiscal year 1994 positions
for supporting personnel and approved the following (subject to the availability
of funds):

1.     Fifteen permanent positions, three temporary positions, and six
       permanent JSP-14 data network adrr~inistrator positions for circuit
       executives' offices in ten circuits;

2.     Fifteen attorney (five JSP-16 chief preargument attorneys and ten JSP-
       14 preargument attorneys) and five secretarial positions for preargument
       attorney offices in eight courts of appeals;

3.     Ten court interpreter positions for FY 1994, one each for the District of
       Columbia, Florida (Southern), New York (Eastern), and Washington
       (Eastern); three for New York (Southern); and three for temporary
       assignments to courts with special needs;
4.     Thirty-five additional positions to be allocated to court units to perform
       project coordination functions for major space and facilities projects; and

5.     Seven additional positions (five to perform additional responsibilities
       associated with rising caseloads and two to provide automation support)
       in bankruptcy administrator offices.

                        ADDITIONAL COURT REPORTERS

        The Conference approved one additional court reporter for the Northern
District of Georgia, for funding in PI 1993, upon confirmation of the first
replacement judge.

                              STAFFING FORMULAS

         After a comprehensive nationwide evaluation of the staffing needs of the
district court clerks' offices, a new staffing formula was developed to address
the increasing demands of more complex operating environments and to provide
full support to all active and senior Article Ill judges and full and part-time
magistrate judges. The Judicial Conference, on recommendation of the
Committee on Judicial Resources, approved the new staffing formula for district
court clerks' offices with the understanding that any increases called for by the
formula would be phased in over five years to allow for management
improvements.        Further, the Conference approved the Committee's
recommendationthat the Administrative Office allocate available positions on the
basis of need rather than through a strict application of the formula.

        The bankruptcy clerks' work measurement formula originally included a
deviation factor designed to address needs in courts with complicated cases
and backlogs. This formula is now seen as resulting in unfair apportionment of
positions among the bankruptcy clerks' offices. On recommendation of the
Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the deletion of the deviation factor
from the bankruptcy clerks' work measurement formula and the inclusion in that
formula of a judgeship factor of 1.5 positions per judgeship approved by
Congress.

                    GRADES OF COURT UNIT EXECUTIVES

        In March 1987, the Judicial Conference approved guidelines for
determining the target grades of court unit executives with the provision that "in
an individual court, no bankruptcy clerk, chief probation officer, or chief pretrial
services officer shall be classified at a level higher than the clerk of the district
court." JCUS-MAR 87, pp. 7-8. After consulting with the Committee on Court
Administration and Case Management and the Committee on Criminal Law, the
Judicial Resources Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference
approved, the elimination of the restrictive grade provision for bankruptcy clerks,
chief probation officers, and chief pretrial services officers. The Conference
also instituted a new provision that would allow for an increase in the grade of
the district court clerk in those instances where the grade of the district court
clerk would otherwise be lower than the grade of either the bankruptcy clerk,
the chief probation officer or the chief pretrial services officer in the same
district, provided that the chief judge certifies that (1) the court has assigned
responsibilities to the district court clerk equal to or greater than the
responsibilities of the other unit heads in the district court; and (2) the district
court clerk is responsible for performing certain administrative support functions
for the other units of the district court.

        Because the clerk of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit is assigned responsibilities significantly greater than those common to
clerks in other courts of appeals, the Judicial Conference approved the
recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources to upgrade the Ninth
Circuit Clerk of Court to JSP-18.

       GRADES OF CHIEF DEPUTY/SECOND-IN-COMMAND POSITIONS

        In September 1990, the Judicial Conference approved an increase in pay
for senior executives (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 91). This pay upgrade created a two-
grade gap between certain second-in-command positions and their unit heads,
where previously the Judiciary Salary Plan had provided that these second-in-
command positions be graded one grade below the court unit chief. In order
to reinstate the previous Conference policy and to standardize its application to
a larger number of court support units, the Judicial Conference, on
recommendation of the Committee, approved a one-grade gap between target
grades of certain unit chiefs (circuit exec.utives, clerks of courts of appeals,
clerks of district and bankruptcy courts, chief probation officers, and chief
pretrial services officers) and "type II" second-in-command positions, with no
second-in-command classification exceeding a cap of JSP-16. The Conference
also approved the necessary charlges to the Judiciary Salary Plan's policy on
chief deputy positions to broaden its coverage to include deputy circuit
executives and deputy chief probation and pretrial services officers. Further, the
Conference authorized an upgrade from JSP-13 to JSP-14 for deputy circuit
librarians.

                  JUDICIARY SALARY PLAN MODIFICATIONS

        On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference took the
following actions regarding position classifications and benchmark standards,
subject, as always, to the availability of funds:
1.     Approved the revision of the landmark job standard for systems manager
       (JSP-13) to allow for its joint use by probation and pretrial services
       offices which have implemented, or shortly will implement, PACTS;

2.     Approved the upgrade of assistant librarians in circuit headquarters
       libraries from JSP-11 to JSP-12;

3.     Approved revisions to the landmark job standard for financial
       administrators to allow for JSP-9 financial specialists to support JSP-11
       financial administrators, and JSP-11 financial specialists to support JSP-
       12 financial administrators;

4.     Approved an administrative officer landmark job standard at JSP-11; and

5.     Disapproved a motion to increase the target grades of judges' secretaries
       from JSP-11 to JSP-12, for persons who have served as secretaries to
       federal judges for a minimum of ten years and have been at step 10 of
       JSP-11 for at least one year.

           LEAVE ACCUMULATION FOR COLlRT UNIT EXECUTIVES

        As a result of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, members of the
executive branch's Senior Executive Service were exempted from the restriction
that limits most federal employees from carrying over from one year to the next
more than 240 hours of annual leave. The Administrative Office of the United
States Courts Personnel Act of 1990 (Public Law No. 101-474) enabled the leave
accumulation exemption to be extended to senior members of the Administrative
Office. In order to remain competitive with other government agencies in hiring
and retaining top executives, the Judicial Conference voted to seek amendment
of 5 U.S.C. § 6304(f) to include court unit executives in the exemption from the
limitation on annual leave accumulation.

                      WITHIN-GRADE INCREASE POLICY

        The previous within-grade increase policy required appointing officers to
assign one of five performance ratings and certify this decision in writing to the
Administrative Office in order for the pay increase to be effected. An employee
who received the top three ratings ("acceptable" to "excellent") would receive a
within-grade increase. The Judicial Conference endorsed the Committee's
recommendationto make the process more efficient by revising the within-grade
increase policy to provide a two-level rating process, "acceptable" and
"unacceptable", and to require the ,filing of a report to the Administrative Office
only if an "unacceptable1'rating is given.
                 COMMl73X ON LONG RANGE PLANNlNG

        The Committee on Long Range Planning reported that it has established
three subcommittees and assigned specific planning topics to each. The
Committee is available to make substantive planning presentations at circuit
judicial conferences upon request.

             COhdMlTEE ON TBE ADMINEIRATION OF TBE
                   MAGEXRATE JUDGES SYEXEM

               SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT REGULATIONS

        The Federal Magistrates Act authorizes the Judicial Conference to
promulgate regulations governing the selection and appointment of magistrate
judges. 28 U.S.C. § 631 (b)(5). On recommendation of the Committee on the
Administration of the Magistrate Judges System, the Judicial Conference revised
the "Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States Establishing
Standards and procedures for the Appointment and Reappointment of United
States Magistrate Judges" in light of recent amendments to the Act, the
Committee's interpretations of the regulations, and practical experience with their
operation. The revisions will be published in a revised version of the pamphlet
entitled 'The Selection and Appointment of United States Magistrate Judges."

                CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

       After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts,
and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Conference approved the following
changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrate
judge positions. Unless otherwise indicated, these changes are to be effective
when appropriated funds are available.

                                 FIRST CIRCUIT

Massachusetts

       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Worcester (or Ayer)
       to a full-time magistrate judge position at Worcester (or Boston).
                             SECOND CIRCUIT



1.    Authorized a new full-time magistrate judge position to serve the court at
      New Haven; and

2.    Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
      the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

New York, Northern

1.    Made no change in the status of the part-time magistrate judge position
      at Watertown; and

2.    Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
      the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

New York, Southern

1.    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at New York
      City; and

2.    Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
      the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

                              FOURTH CIRCUIT

North Carolina, Eastern

       Discontinued the authority of the clerk of court at Raleigh to perform
       magistrate judge duties.

West Virginia, Northern

1.     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
       Wheeling from $20,000 per. annum to $30,000 per annum; and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.
                                 FIFTH CIRCUIT

Texas, Northern

       lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Abilene
       from $7,180 per annum to $1 0,000 per annum.

Texas, Eastern

1.     lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
       Sherman from $5,000 to $50,000 per annum, effective October 1, 1992;
       and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

                              SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Illinois, Southern

1.     lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at East St.
       Louis from $50,000 per annum to $55,000 per annum; and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

                               EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Iowa, Northern

1.     lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Sioux
       City from $5,000 per annum to $10,000 per annum; and

2.     Made no change in the location or arrangements of the full-time
       magistrate judge position in the district.

                                NINTH CIRCUIT

California, Central

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Los
       Angeles (or Long Beach);
2.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Long Beach upon
         the appointment of an additional full-time magistrate judge at Los Angeles
         (or Long Beach);

3.       Redesignated the part-time magistrate judge position at Santa Barbara
         to Santa Barbara (or Ventura) and increased the salary of that position
         from $7,740 per annum to $20,000 per annum, effective January 1,1993;

4.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Oxnard (or
         Ventura), effective January 1, 1993;

5.       Redesignated the part-time magistrate judge position at San Bernardino
         as San Bernardino (or Riverside);

6.       Maintained the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
         Barstow (or Victorville) at the current level of $11,968 per annum until
         further specific action on the position;

7.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Palm Springs (or
         Twentynine Palms), effective January 1, 1993; and

8.       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
         the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

California, Eastern

         lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at South
         Lake Tahoe from $1 1,968 per annum to $20,000 per annum.

Hawaii

         lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Hilo
         from $7,180 per annum to $10,000 per annum.

                                 TENTH CIRCUIT

Oklahoma, Eastern

         lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
         McAlester from $7,180 per annum to $10,000 per annum.
Wyoming

       Retained the part-time magistrate judge position at Casper with no
       change in the location, salary, or arrangements.

                              ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Florida, Middle

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Tampa; and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

Florida, Southern

       Changed the location of the magistrate judge position at Miami (or West
       Palm Beach) to Fort Lauderdale.

           DESIGNATION OF NEW FULL-TIME MAGISTRATE JUDGE
                POSITIONS FOR ACCELERATED FUNDING

       In order to provide prompt magistrate judge assistance to judicial districts
which are seriously affected by drug filings or impacted by the Civil Justice
Reform Act, the Judicial Conference approved the Committee's recommendation
to accelerate the funding for five new full-time magistrate judge positions
authorized at this session. Magistrate judge positions at Worcester (or Boston),
Massachusetts; New Haven, Connecticut; New York City, New York; Los
Angeles (or Long Beach), California; and Tampa, Florida, were designated for
accelerated funding in fiscal year 1993.

                  co-         TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
                        CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS

       The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders
reported' that it continues to follow closely the work of the National Commission
on Judicial Discipline and Removal, established by the Judicial Improvements
Act of 1990, Public Law 101-650.
                           cohllwrnm ON RULES
                      OF PRACI'ICE AND PROCEDURE

              ADVISORY COMMIlTEE ON RULES OF EVIDENCE

        Since the discharge in 1975 of the Advisory Committee on the Federal
Rules of Evidence following the completion of the writing of the Evidence Rules,
amendments to the Rules of Evidence have been considered by the Committee
on Rules of Practice and Procedure and by the Advisory Committees on Civil
and Criminal Rules. The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure
concluded that there are sufficient unsettled areas in the Evidence Rules to
warrant review and recommended the appointment of a separate Evidence Rules
Advisory Committee. The Judicial Conference approved that recommendation,
voting to request the Chief Justice to reactivate an Advisory Committee on the
Federal Rules of Evidence with the suggestion of (1) some overlapping
membership with the Advisory Committees on the Federal Rules of Civil and
Criminal Procedure; and (2) the appointment of a reporter to serve the
reactivated Evidence Rules Committee.

                              APPELLATE RULES

        The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Rules 3 ("Appeal as of Right-
How Taken"), 3.1 ("Appeal from a Judgment Entered by a Magistrate Judge in
a Civil Case"), 4 ("Appeal as of Right - When Taken"), 5.1 ("Appeal by
Permission Under 28 U.S.C. 5 636(c)(5)"), 6 ("Appeal in a Bankruptcy Case from
a Final Judgment, Order, or Decree of a District Court or of a Barlkruptcy
Appellate Panel"), 10 ('The Record on Appeal"), 12 ("Docketing the Appeal; Filing
a Representation Statement; Filing the Record"), 15 ("Review or Enforcement of
an Agency Order - How Obtained; Intervention"), 25 ("Filing and Service"), 28
("Briefs"), and 34 ("Oral Argument") of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure,
as well as amendments to Forms 1 ("Notice of Appeal to a Court of Appeals
From a Judgment or Order of a District Court"), 2 ("Notice of Appeal to a Court
of Appeals From a Decision of the United States Tax Court"), and 3 ("Petition
for Review of Order of an Agency, Board, Commission or Officer"). The
proposed amendments were accompanied by Committee notes explaining their
purpose and intent. The Conference approved the amendments for transmission
to the Supreme Court for consideration, with the recommendation that they be
approved by the Court and transmitted to Congress pursuant to law.

                               CRIMINAL RULES

       The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Judicial Conference a proposed new Criminal Rule 26.3 ("Mistrial") and proposed
amendments to Rules 1 ("Scope"), 3 ('The Complaint"), 4 ("Arrest Warrant or
Summons Upon Complaint"), 5 ("Initial Appearance Before the Magistrate
Judge"), 5.1 ("Preliminary Examination"), 6 ('The Grand Jury"), 9 ("Warrant or
Summons Upon Indictment or Information"), 12 ("Pleadings and Motions Before
Trial; Defenses and Objections"), 16 ("Discovery and Inspection"), 17
("Subpoena"), 26.2 ("Production of Witness Statements"), 32 ("Sentence and
Judgment"), 32.1 ("Revocation or Modification of Probation or Supervised
Release"), 40 ("Commitment to Another District"), 41 ("Search and Seizure"), 44
("Right to and Assignment of Counsel"), 46 ("Release From Custody"), 49
(Service and Filing of Papers"), 50 ("Calendars; Plans for Prompt Disposition"),
54 ("Application and Exception"), 55 ("Records"), 57 ("Rules by District Courts"),
and 58 ("Procedure for Misdemeanors and Other Petty Offenses") of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure. The Committee also submitted a proposed
amendment to Rule 8 ("Evidentiary Hearing") of the Rules Governing
Proceedings in the United States District Courts Under Section 2255 of Title 28,
United States Code. Advisory notes and a report explaining the purpose and
intent of all the amendments were transmitted with the proposals. The
Conference approved these amendments and authorized their transmittal to the
Supreme Court for consideration, with the recommendation that they be
approved by the Court and transmitted to Congress pursuant to law.

                             BANKRUPTCY RULES

         The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Judicial Conference a proposed new Bankruptcy Rule 9036 ("Notice by
Electronic Transmission"), and proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1010
("Service of Involuntary Petition and Surnmons; Petition Commencing Ancillary
Case"), 1013 ("Hearing and Disposition of a Petition in an Involuntary Case"),
1017 ("Dismissal or Conversion of Case; Su~pension'~),        2002 ("Notices to
Creditors, Equity Security Holders, United States, and United States Trustees"),
2003 ("Meeting of Creditors or Equity Security Holders"), 2005 ("Apprehension
and Removal of Debtor to Compel Attendance for Examination"), 3009
("Declaration and Payment of Dividends in a Chapter 7 Liquidation Case"), 3015
("Filing, Objection to Confirmation, and Modification of a Plan in a Chapter 12
Family Farmer's Debt Adjustment or a Chapter 13 Individual's Debt Adjustment
Case"), 3018 ("Acceptance or Rejection of Plan in a Chapter 9 Municipality or
a Chapter 11 Reorganization Case"), 3019 ("Modification of Accepted Plan
Before Confirmation 'in a Chapter 9 Municipality or a Chapter 11 Reorganization
Case1'), 3020 ("Deposit; Confirmation of Plan in a Chapter 9 Municipality or a
Chapter 11 Reorganization Case"), 5005 ("Filing and Transmittal of Papers"),
6002 ("Accounting by Prior Custodian of Property of the Estate"), 6006
("Assumption, Rejection and Assignment of Executory Contracts and Unexpired
Leases"), 6007 ("Abandonment or Disposition of Property''), 9002 ("Meanings of
Words in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure When Applicable to Cases Under
the Code"), and 9019 ("Compromise and Arbitration"), together with Committee
notes explaining their purpose and intent. These amendments were approved
by the Conference, which authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court for
consideration with the recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and
transmitted to Congress pursuant to law.

       'The Committee also proposed technical amendments to Official
Bankruptcy Forms 5 ("Involuntary Petition"), 9B ("Notice of Commencement of
Case Under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, Meeting of Creditors, and Fixing
of Dates (CorporationIPartnership No Asset Case)"), 9D ("Notice of
Commencement of Case Under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, Meeting of
Creditors, and Fixing of Dates (CorporationIPartnership Asset Case)'?, 9F
("Notice of Commencement of Case Under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code,
Meeting of Creditors, and Fixing of Dates (CorporationIPartnership Case)"), and
9H ("Notice of Commencement of Case Under Chapter 12 of the Bankruptcy
Code, Meeting of Creditors, and Fixing of Dates (CorporationIPartnership Family
Farmer)"). The Judicial Conference approved these amendments.

                                  CIVIL RULES

        The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Conference a proposed new Civil Rule 4.1 ("Service of Other Process") and
proposed amendments to Civil Rules 1 ("Scope and Purpose of Rules"), 5
("Service and Filing of Pleadings and Other Papers"), 11 ("Signing of Pleadings,
Motions, and Other Papers; Representations to Court; Sanctions"), 12 ("Defenses
and Objections-When and How Presented-By Pleading or Motion-Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings"), 15 ("Amended and Supplemental Pleadings"), 16
("Pretrial Conferences; Scheduling; Management"), 26 ("General Provisions
Governing Discovery; Duty of Disclosure"), 28 ("Persons Before Whom
Depositions May Be Taken"), 29 ("Stipulations Regarding Discovery Procedure"),
30 ("Depositions upon Oral Examination"), 31 ("Depositions upon Written
Questions"), 32 ("Use of Depositions in Court Proceedings"), 33 ("Interrogatories
to Parties"), 34 ("Production of Documents and Things and Entry Upon Land for
Inspection and Other Purposes"), 36 ("Requests for Admission"), 37 ("Failure to
Make Disclosure or Cooperate in Discovery: Sanctions"), 38 ("Jury Trial of
Right"), 50 ("Judgment as a Matter of Law in Actions Tried by Jury; Alternative
Motion for New Trial; Conditional Rulings"), 52 ("Findings by the Court;
Judgment on Partial Findings"), 53 ("Masters"), 54 ("Judgments; Costs"), 58
("Entry of Judgment"), 71A ("Condemnation of Property"), 72 ("MagistrateJudges;
Pretrial Matters"), 73 ("Magistrate Judges; Trial by Consent and Appeal Options"),
74 ("Method of Appeal from Magistrate Judge to District Judge under Title 28
U.S.C. § 636(c)(4) and Rule 73(d)"), 75 ("Proceedings on Appeal from Magistrate
Judge to District Judge under Rule 73(d)"), and 76 ("Judgment of the District
Judge on Appeal Under Rule 73(d) and Costs"), as well as a proposed new
Form 35 ("Report of Parties' Planning Meeting") and proposed amendments to
Forms 2 ("Allegation of Jurisdiction"), 33 ("Notice of Availability of a Magistrate
Judge to Exercise Jurisdiction and Appeal Option"), 34 ("Consent to Exercise of
Jurisdiction by a United States Magistrate Judge, Election of Appeal to District
Judge"), and 34A ("Order of Reference"). The Committee also proposed an
amendment to Rule 4 ("Summons") of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and
the adoption of Forms 1A ("Notice of Lawsuit and Request for Waiver of Service
of Summons") and 1B ("Waiver of Service of Summons"). The rules and forms
were modified by language regarding the extraterritorial service of process. The
Committee also proposed the abrogation of Form 18-A. Advisory notes and a
report explaining the purpose and intent of all the amendments were transmitted
with the proposals. The Conference approved these amendments and
authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court for consideration, with the
recommendation that they be approved by the Court and transmitted to
Congress pursuant to law.

      The Conference declined to approve a Committee proposal to amend
Rule 56 ("Summary Judgment") of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

                               EVIDENCE RULES

        'The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Judicial Conference' proposed amendments to Rules 101 ("Scope"), 705
("Disclosure of Facts or Data Underlying Expert Opinion"), and 1101
("Applicability of Rules") of the Federal Rules of Evidence. The proposed
amendments were accompanied by Committee notes explaining their purpose
and intent. The Conference approved the amendments for transmission to the
Supreme Court for consideration, with the recommendation that they be
approved by the Court and transmitted to Congress pursuant to law.

                  COMMWl3E ON SPACE AND FACIMTES

                  UNITED STATES COURTS DESIGN GUIDE

      The Judicial Conference approved the recommendations of the
Committee on Space and Facilities to amend the United States Courts Design
Guide as follows:

1.     Incorporate technical and editorial changes and recommendations from
       the General Services Administration;

2.     Change the finish standards for grand jury hearing room suites;
3.     Make the space standard for fitness facilities consistent with executive
       branch policy;

4.     Add a space standard for news media rooms; and

5.     Revise the space standard for circuit judge's chambers.

          COMMlTlTX TO REMEW THE CRMWAL JUSTICEA m

       The Judicial Conference approved a resolution requesting the Defender
Services Committee to undertake a detailed review of the "Interim Report of the
Committee to Review the Criminal Justice Act of the Judicial Conference of the
United States." 'The Defender Services Committee is to report back to the
Conference by January 15, 1993.'

                                   FUNDING

        All of the foregoing recommendations which require the expenditure of
funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
the availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the Conference might
establish for the use of available resources.

                    RELEASE OF CONFEXENCE ACI'ION

        The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters considered
at this session where necessary for legislative or administrative action.




                                            Chief Justice of the
                                            Presiding

December 18, 1992
