                 REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
             JUDICIAL CONFrmENCE OF THE IJNmm STATES


                                March 16, 1992


        The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
D.C., on March 16, 1992, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the Ur~ited
States issued under 28 U.S.C. 9 331. The Chief Justice presided, and the
following members of the Conference were present:

       First Circuit:

               Chief Judge Stephen G. Breyer
               Chief Judge Francis J. Boyle,
                      District of Rhode Island

       Second Circuit:

               Chief Judge James L. Oakes
               Chief Judge Charles L. Brieant,
                      Southern District of New York

       Third Circuit:

               Chief Judge Dolores K. Sloviter
               Chief Judge John F. Gerry,
                      District of New Jersey

       Fourth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Sam J. Ervin, Ill
               Judge W. Earl Britt,
                      Eastern District of North Carolina

       Fifth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Henry A. Politz
               Chief Judge Barefoot Sanders,
                      Northern District of Texas
  Sixth Circuit:

         Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt
         Judge Edward H. Johnstone,'
                Western District of Kentucky

  Seventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge William J. Bauer
          Chief Judge Barbara B. Crabb,
                 Western District of Wisconsin

  Eighth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Richard S. Arnold
          Chief Judge Donald E. OIBrienl
                 Northern District of Iowa

  Ninth Circuit:

          Chief Judge J. Clifford Wallace
          Chief Judge William D. Browning,
                 District of Arizona

  Tenth Circuit:

          Chief Judge Monroe G. McKay
          Judge Richard P. Matsch,
                 District of Colorado

  Eleventh Circuit:

          Chief Judge Gerald 0. Tjoflat
          Judge Anthony A. Alaimo,
                 Southern District of Georgia

  District of Columbia Circuit:

          Chief Judge Abner J. Mikva
          Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr.,
                 District of Columbia



'Designated by the Chief Justice.
       Federal Circuit:

               Chief Judge Helen W. Nies

       Court of International Trade:

               Chief Judge Dominick L. DiCarlo

        Circuit Judges Damon J. ~ e i t hWalter
                                         ,      K. Stapleton, and Deanell Reece
Tacha; Senior Circuit Judge Thomas M. Reavley; District Judges Robert C.
Broomfield, Gustave Diamond, Lloyd D. George, Wm. Terrell Hodges, Robert E.
Keeton, Robert M. Parker, Sam C. Pointer, Jr., and Rya W. Zobel; and Senior
District Judge Vincent L. Broderick attended the sessions of the Conference.
Circuit Executives Vincent Flanagan, Steven Flanders, John P. Hehman, Samuel
W. Phillips, Lydia Comberrel, James A. Higgins, Collins T. Fitzpatrick, June L.
Boadwine, Gregory 6. Walters, Eugene J. Murret, Norman E. Zoller, and Linda
Finkelstein were also present at Conference sessions.

      The Solicitor General of the United States, Kenneth Starr, addressed the
Conference on matters of mutual interest to the Department of Justice, the
Congress, and the Conference.

        L. Ralph Mecham, .Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, attended the sessions of the Conference, as did James E.
Macklin, Jr., Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General Counsel; Robert'E.
Feidler, Legislative and Public Affairs Officer; Karen K. Siegel, Judicial
Conference and Management Coordination Officer; Wendy Jennis, Deputy Chief,
Judicial Conference Secretariat; and David A. Sellers, Public Information Officer.
Judge William W Schwarzer and Russell R. Wheeler, Director and Deputy
Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also attended the sessions of the
Conference, as did Robb Jones, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice;
Jonathan Entin, Jeff Jackson, and Janice Sumler-Edmond, Judicial Fellows; and
Justice Robert D. Nicholson of the Supreme Court of Western Australia.

     REPORT OF 'FHE DIREnOR OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
                  OF THE UNlTEB STATES COURTS

      The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, L.
Ralph Mecham, presented to the Conference a brief report summarizing the
business of the courts for the calendar year 1991.
                     JUDICIAL BUSINESS OF THE COURTS

       Mr. Mecham reported that in 1991, total filings in the regional courts of
appeals rose by more than eight percent to a record high of 44,465. The overall
increase in appeals resulted, in part, from continued growth in criminal appeals
from the U.S. district courts, which increased ten percent. Drug-related appeals,
which accounted for 55 percent of all criminal appeals filed, increased
approximately five percent over 1990. Appeals of decisions of the U.S. district
courts on state and federal prisoner petitions rose nine percent. Bankruptcy
appeals rose by more than 16 percent, due to the continued growth of cases
in U.S. bankruptcy courts. Appeals of other civil and administrative agency
cases increased slightly, while original proceedings declined slightly. The courts
disposed of 41,905 appeals durirrg the year, an increase of five percent from
1990. Appeals terminated on the merits increased by 1,459 cases or seven
percent and accounted for 55 percent of all dispositions. With filings again
outnumbering terminations, the pending caseload in the regional courts of
appeals rose eight percent to 34,956. The increase in pending criminal appeals,
which now number 10,253, was the major factor in the overall increase.

       In the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, filings rose nine
percent from 1,474 in 1990 to 1,611. Appeals from the Merit Systems Protection
Board increased 13 percent and accounted for 49 percent of the total filings.
Over 100 cases, seven percent of the total filings, were appeals of decisions of
the Court of Veterans Appeals and the Department of Veterans Affairs. Appeals
terminated in the Federal Circuit increased slightly from 1,418 cases in 1990 to
1,442 in 1991. Since filings outnumbered terminations, the pending caseload
rose by 170 cases, or nearly 25 percent.

         In the U.S. district courts, civil filings increased three percent to 217,656
cases in 1991 after a decrease of six percent in 1990. The increase in civil
filings reversed a declining trend which began in 1986. The decline in civil
filings during the late 1980's resulted primarily from decreases in filings by the
U.S. government to recover overpayment of veterans' benefits (VA cases) and
defaulted student loans (referred to as recovery cases), and in filings against the
United States for social security benefits. The overall increase in civil filings in
1991 reflected a return to higher levels of these types of filings. Suits filed by
the U.S. Government to recover defaulted student loans rose 157 percent from
3,494 cases to 8,988. VA cases increased a substantial 19 percent, rising from
4,029 filings in 1990 to 4,956 last year. Suits filed against the U.S. for social
security benefits increased 28 percent from 6,819 cases in 1990 to 8,756 in
1991. Notable increases occurred also in filings involving banks (35 percent),
Employee Retirement Income Security Act ,filings (13 percent), and civil rights
filings (ten percent). Civil cases closed in the district courts rose seven percent
in 1991, primarily because of an increase in the number of asbestos case
closings. 'This increase in asbestos closings resulted from the transfer of a large
number of cases by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation to the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania. Exclusive of asbestos cases, civil cases terminated in
the U.S. district courts were down two percent to 198,395 in 1991. The pending
civil caseload (excluding the transferred asbestos cases noted above) decreased
five percent in 1991.

         Criminal case filings declined one percent in 1991, largely because of a
drop in drug prosecutions in the Southern District of Texas and drunk driving
and traffic violations in a few districts with large national parks and military
installations. Despite these declines, criminal case filings remained higher than
they were in 1987 and the number of criminal defendants continued to grow.
Drug cases rose from 11,408 in 1990 to 11,705 in 1991, but this three percent
increase was modest compared to 20 percent increases that occurred only a
few years ago. The number of defendants in drug cases rose only one percent
from 22,525 in 1990 to 22,778 in 1991. The eBect of Operation Triggerlock, an
initiative launched by the Department of Justice to bring weapons charges
against all defendants in possession of guns while committing criminal acts,
particularly drug dealing, contributed to another significant increase in weapons
and firearms filings, which rose 27 percent this year. Fraud case filings dropped
three percent in 1991, but lending institution fraud cases increased 16 percent
to 1,356. Criminal case dispositions decreased one percent this year, dropping
to 42,265 from 42,636 cases last year. With filings exceeding terminations, the
pending caseload rose ten percent. On December 31, 1991, there were 39,812
pending criminal cases involving 59,427 defendants.

         During 1991, there were 943,987 cases filed in the U.S. bankruptcy
courts, the largest number ever filed during a comparable twelve-month period
and an increase of 21 percent over 1990. Bankruptcy terminations increased
to 782,141, up nearly 19 percent from a year ago. As a result of the large
number of new filings, the' pending caseload reached an all-time high of
1, I 92,281 cases on December 31, 1991, a substantial 16 percent increase over
the 1,030,443 cases pending last year. The increase in filings was due primarily
to a 21 percent increase in non-business filings. Among non-business cases,
Chapter 7 liquidations increased by 22 percent; Chapter 13 adjustments rose by
21 percent; and filings under Chapter 11, which represent only a fraction of the
non-business total, increased by 28 percent. Business filings increased ten
percent in 1991 to 71,549 cases. This growth resulted from a seven percent
increase in Chapter 7 business filings, a 14 percent rise in Chapter 11 business
reorganizations, and a 15 percent increase in Chapter 13 business debt
adjustments. Filings of family farmer business debt adjustments under Chapter
12 also increased after a decline in 1990. There were 1,495 cases filed under
Chapter 12 in 1991, up 11 percent from the 1,346 filings in 1990.

         Mr. Mecham also reported that as of March 16, 1992, there were 24
vacancies among the 179 judgeships authorized for the United States courts of
appeals, 96 vacancies among the 649 positions authorized for the United States
district courts, and two vacancies on the United States Court of International
Trade.

                ACTIVITIES OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

        Mr. Mecham reported that appropriations subcommittee hearings on the
judiciary's fiscal year 1993 budget request, held in both the House and Senate
in February, went well. However, based on initial indications from committee
members, funding increases will be difficult to achieve given the overall budget
limits. The judiciary is requesting a total of $2.8 billion, an increase of
approximately $443 million, or 19 percent, over funds appropriated in the fiscal
year 1992. Over the years, the Administrative Office's share of the judiciary
budget has fallen as the judiciary has grown. Despite the downward trend in
the Administrative Office's share of the judiciary's budget, the agency continues
to strive to provide the judiciary with essential policy, program, legal and
management assistance.

       The Administrative Office has been jnvolved in several high priority
projects this year:

       Implementation of the Civil Justice Reform Act (CJRA) - The Administrative
       Office and the Federal Judicial Center (FJC) are reviewing plans,
       providing training, and preparing a report to Congress on the early
       implementation districts;

       Implementation of the report of the automation consultants - Project
       teams are developing final plans for implementing the 16
       recommendations which fall into four general categories of organization,
       development, support, and management systems;

       Expansion of budget decentralization - Twenty-one courts were trained
       in 1991, and an additional 40 courts will be trained this spring;

       Review of automated financial systems - A team of consultants from the
       U.S. Department of the Treasury has begun identifying strengths and
       weaknesses and devising strategies for improvement of the judiciary's
       financial systems;
                                            ?2




       Comprehensive review of the Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) - The National
       Academy of Public Administration is conducting a study of the JSP.
       Extensive opportunities for court review and input are being provided;

       Update of staffing formulas - The Judicial Conference approved the new
       staffing formula for probation and pretrial services offices in September
       1991 (JCUS-SEP 91, p. 63), the district clerks' work measurement study
       is in the final analysis phase, and studies in the bankruptcy and appellate
       clerks' offices are also underway;

       Space and facilities services and support - A working group comprised
       of judges and senior court managers has made recommendations in the
       areas of development of space and facilities "management plans," long
       range facilities planning, project development, financial management, staff
       support, and training in order to improve the space and facilities support
       and services provided to the judiciary. The recommendations are being
       sent to all chief judges for review and comment before an implementation
       plan is developed;

       Courthouse construction program - Last year the Congress authorized
       about $750 million for new construction and alteration funding for the
       judiciary as compared to an average of $63 million per year from 1981
       to 1991. The current courthouse construction program for the judiciary
       appears to be the largest office building construction program undertaken
       by the federal government during this century; and

       Legislative priorities - Enactment of legislation giving the judiciary control
       of its space and facilities program is a top legislative priority, as are
       reforming the Judicial Survivors' Annuities System (JSAS), obtaining new
       bankruptcy judgeships, and securing revisions that would minimize the
       negative impact on the federal court system of proposed legislation
       creating a civil rights remedy in the federal courts for victims of gender-
       based violence.

       As of February 1992, the Federal Judiciary Building in Washington, D.C.,
was about 77 percent complete, based on funding expended. There are no
anticipated delays, and occupancy is scheduled for October 1992. It will
accommodate the support elements of the judiciary in Washirrgton, D.C.,
including the Administrative Office, the Federal Judicial Center, and the U.S.
Sentencing Commission. Elements of the Supreme Court Library and Historical
Society will be in the building, and there will also be three chambers for retired
Supreme Court Justices.
                   REPORT OF THE DHWXOR OF THEl
                      FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER

       The Director of the Federal Judicial Center, Judge William W Schwarzer,
reported on the reorganization, effective January 1, 1992, of the Center's former
Innovations and Systems Development Division into a Planning and Technology
Division, which provides technology development for the Center's research,
education, and administrative functions and also serves the Judicial Conference's
Automation and Technology Committee and Long Range Planning Committee.
The division is conducting several research projects for the Long Range
Planning Committee and assisted in the March 17-18, 1992, long-range planning
seminar, which the Committee asked the Center to design for chief circuit judges
and Judicial Conference committee chairs.

         The Center last year provided 50 educational programs for 2,400 judicial
officers, 79 seminars and workshops for 3,200 supporting personnel, and 440
in-court training programs for 12,800 persons. Orientation of new probation and
pretrial services officers continues to be a major element of Center education for
supporting personnel. The Center has produced new videotaped lectures for
district judge orientation and announced a three-year leadership development
program for probation and pretrial services officers. It is also bolstering its
capacity to provide the courts with curriculum packages, multi-media instructional
material, and training support, looking toward the day when the courts will have
the capacity and funding mechanisms to organize and plan local training
programs to meet their specific needs effectively, with appropriate Center
assistance but with less need for travel.

       The Center's current research and support activities include major efforts
to assist districts in implementing the Civil Justice Reform Act, analysis of the
operation of Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and
congressionally-mandated research into alternative appellate structures and the
impact of intercircuit conflicts.

       The Center has moved the publication date of its statutorily-mandated
annual report from September to March, so that the report coincides with the
calendar year.



       The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
Federal Judicial Center Judge Michael A. Telesca, Western District of New York,
to replace Judge David W. Dowd, whose term expired on March 28, 1992.
                        UNITED STATES CLAIMS COURT

         Section 8 of a draft "Claims Court Technical and Procedural
Improvements Act of 1991" would amend 28 U.S.C. 9 331 to add as a member
of the Judicial Conference the Chief Judge of the United States Claims Court.
The Executive Committee, determining that it would be inappropriate for an
Article I judge to be a member of the Judicial Conference which is preeminently
the policy-making body for the Article Ill courts, recommended opposition to
section 8 of this draft legislation.         The Conference approved this
recommendation.

        In September 1987, the Judicial Conference agreed not to object to the
creation of an Article I Claims Court outside of the judicial branch. JCUS-SEP
87, p. 68. At a later session, with specific legislation before it, the Conference
changed its position and voted to recommend to the Congress that the Claims
Court remain a part of the Third Branch. JCUS-SEP 88, p. 76. The Executive
Committee, after reviewing the history of the Article I status of the Claims Court,
referred to the Budget and Court Administration and Case Management
Committees the question of whether the Conference should re-adopt its earlier
position of not objecting to the placement of the Claims Court outside of the
judiciary. See also, "United States Claims Court," Ma, pp. 17-18, 22-23, 23-
24, 26.

                                  RESOLUTION

       In recognition of the outstanding work of Chairman Damon J. Keith and
the members of the Committee on the Bicentennial of the Constitution, the
Executive Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved,
adoption of the following resolution:

              The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
       with appreciation, respect and admiration the

               HONORABLE DAMON J. KEITH
               HONORABLE HARRY A. BLACKMUN
               HONORABLE WARREN E. BLIRGER
               HONORABLE ARTHUR L. ALARCON
               HONORABLE FRANK X. ALTlMARl
               HONORABLE ADRIAN G. DUPLANTIER
               HONORABLE WILI-IAM BREVARD HAND
               HONORABLE PATRICK F. KELLY
               HONORABLE ROBERT C. MURPHY
       HONORABLE HELEN W. NlES
       HONORABLE JAMES E. NOLAND
       HONORABLE JAIME PIERAS, JR.,

Chairman and members of the Committee on the Bicentennial of
the Constitution.

         Since 1985, the Committee has engaged in a wide variety
of outstanding projects designed to foster judicial and public
education on the Constitution of the United States and the Bill of
Rights. Videotapes depicting trials on major constitu.tional issues
have been distributed to public television stations, courthouses
and schools nationwide. The Committee co-sponsored the
International Appellate Judges Conference in Washington in 1990,
attended by hundreds of judges from throughout the world,
showcasing the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.             The
Committee has published brochures on the Constitution and the
Bill of Rights and distributed millions of copies to school children
around the nation, as well as to jurors and naturalized citizens,
and has bestowed grants and stipends for many research and
education projects.

        The Committee commissioned the production of bronze
plaques containing the full text of the Bill of Rights, and has
presented over 200 of those plaques to courthouses, universities,
libraries, legislatures and other institutions around the world.

          In October 1991, the Committee, in conjunction with the
College of William and Mary, Marshall-Wythe School of Law,
sponsored a conference in celebration of the Bicentennial of the
 Bill of Rights. This conference was attended by over 300 federal
judges, the largest gathering of its kind, and involved symposiums
on many aspects of the Bill of Rights by outstanding jurists,
practitioners and scholars.

        Despite the substantial time required to accomplish the
tasks before them, Judge Keith and the Committee members
continued to perform their regular judicial duties as judges of
their respective courts.

      Judge Keith and the members of the Committee have
earned our deep respect and sincere gratitude for their
       commitment to the success of this important celebration of our
       Constitution and our hearty congratulations for a job well done.



       The Executive Committee reported that, since the last session of the
Judicial Conference in September 1991, it has taken the following actions on
behalf of the Conference:

                   TEMPORARY BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

        In October 1991, the Executive Committee considered legislative
proposals in response to congressional concern that bankruptcy judgeships
might remain authorized even after the need for them subsided. 'The Committee
expressed preference for legislative language which includes periodic review of
all bankruptcy judgeships by the Judicial Conference over the concept of
''temporary" bankruptcy judgeships. At a later session in December 1991, the
Committee agreed to a concept of temporary bankruptcy judgeships by which
such judgeships would be properly defined, and approved a specific definition
which parallels the district court temporary judgeship provision.'

                            CELLULAR TELEPHONES

        At this session, the Judicial Conference endorsed a recommendation of
the Committee on Automation and Technology that all courts or units choosing
to purchase cellular telephones will be required to pay the recurring charges
from funds allocated to the court, whether or not the funds have been allotted
for that specific purpose (See "Cellular Telephones," infra, p. 15). The Executive
Committee, in anticipation of the Conference's approval of this recommendation,
approved a plan for its implementation, clarifying that it included those courts
which already have cellular phones, such as those in the Eleventh Circuit, but
excluded the four probationJpretrial services offices participatirlg in a pilot test
of cellular telephone technology. The implementation plan assumes that the
Administrative Office can adjust its accounting system and assure that the new
system places minimal burdens on court staff.




      On March 16, 1992, the Executive Committee approved for transmission
to Congress specific draft language proposed by the Committee on the
Administration of the Bankruptcy System defining temporary bar~kruptcy
judgeships.
                        CIVIL JUSTICE REFORM ACT

      To enable the Court Administration and Case Management Committee to
proceed expeditiously with implementation of the Civil Justice Reform Act of
1990 (CJRA), the Executive Committee granted a delegation of authority to the
Committee to meet the following requirements of the CJRA:

1.    The continued provision of advice and technical policy determinations
      regarding day-to-day implementation of the Act;

2.     Designation or certification of early implementation districts, with the
       understanding that upon denial of such designation or certification, a
       request for reconsideration may be made to the Judicial Conference;

3.    Pursuant to section 474(b), the review of civil justice expense and delay
      reduction plans and reports submitted by all districts and the
      transrr~issionof requests for additional action;

4.    The selection of methods to reduce cost and delay in the Northern
      District of California, the Northern District of West Virginia, and the
      Western District of Missouri under the demonstration program required
      by section 104 of the Act;

5.    The study of the demonstration program pursuant to section 104; and

6.    The development of a model plan pursuant to section 477(a).

                         MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

      The Executive Committee:

a     Ratified the current designation of the Administrative Office General
      Counsel as the "designated agency ethics official" for purposes of the
      procurement integrity provisions of the Office of Federal Procurement
      Policy Act;

a     Approved a spending plan for the fiscal year 1992 for the "Salaries and
      Expenses" appropriation;

a     Approved an exception to the current Conference policy and authorized
      relocation expenses to be paid for up to three employees, not to exceed
      $25,000 per employee, incident to the establishment of the new Piano,
      Texas, bankruptcy court clerk's ofice and the forced transfer of positions
      to that office;
               I
       Approved the agenda for the March 1992 sentencing institute for the
       Second and Eighth Circuits;

       Referred to the Judicial Branch Committee for study and report to the
       Judicial Conference in September 1992, issues concerning an
       experimental project in the United States Court of Appeals for the District
       of Columbia whereby judicial opinions interpreting statutes would be
       forwarded to the Ur~itedStates House of Representatives;

       Revised the jurisdictional statements of the Judicial Conference
       Committee on Codes of Conduct and the Committee on Court and
       Judicial, Security, and changed the name of the Criminal Law and
       Probation Committee to the Committee on Criminal Law; and

       Agreed, as part of its oversight responsibility, to monitor the progress of
       AO/FJC relations and revisit the issue in a year.

             COMMITTIE ON THE ADMINEJXATIW OFFICE

                        STATISTICAL REPORTING YEAR

        On recommendation of the Committee on the Administrative Office, the
Judicial Conference changed the statistical reporting year from the year ended
June 30 to the year ended September 30. This change will enable the numbers
used for the judiciary's budget submission and for the Annual Report of the
Director to be the same, ensuring consistency and facilitating analysis of funding
and workload indicators. In addition, the change will align the judiciary's
reporting year with the fiscal year used by the rest of the federal government,
as well as save staff overtime costs and relieve time pressures generated by
the former reporting schedule.

                        REPORTS AND PUBLICATIONS

     The Judicial Conference endorsed the recommendations of the
Committee to:

1.     Eliminate the following publications:

       a.      Glossary of Terms Used in the Federal Courts;

       b.     Federal Offendem in the U.S. Courts;

2.     Eliminatethe following, with the proviso that the Administrative Office
       inform the courts about alternative sources of this information:
       a.     Surety Company List;

       b.     Nationwide Listing of Approved Transcription Services; and

3.     Draft and transmit legislation to Congress that would:

       a.     Transfer to the Department of Justice wiretap reporting as required
              in the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act, 18 U.S.C.
              § 2519(1), (2), and (3);

       b.     Transfer to the Department of Justice and other litigating agencies
              the Equal Access to Justice Act reporting requirement, 28 U.S.C.
              § 2412(d)(5); and

       c.      Eliminate the Right to Financial Privacy Act reporting requirement,
               12 U.S.C. 5 3421(a).

                       FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT

        The Judicial Conference reaffirmed its 1986 opposition (JCUS-SEP 86,
p. 59) to extension of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. § 552) in its
present form to the Administrative Office or to any other element of the federal
judicial branch. The Conference concurred in the conclusions of the Committee
that the exemptions included in the Act are inapposite and not easily adapted
to the judiciary, and that certain material and information in the possession of
the Administrative Office should be exempted with precision from compulsory
disclosure to the public in any "sunshine" legislation made applicable to it.

            COMMITTEE ON AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGY

                    LONG RANGE PLAN FOR AUTOMA-rION

       The Judicial Conference approved the fiscal year 1992 update to the
Long Range Plan for Automation in the Federal Judiciary, subject to the following
understandings noted in the Report of the Committee on Automation and
Technology: (1) that the Administrative Office not interpret the approval as carte
blanche to commence any new initiatives contained therein until the Committee
has the opportunity for further study; (2) that outstanding issues contained in
the Federal Judiciary Automation Program Review concerning the role of the
executive sponsors be resolved fully; and (3) that while the Administrative Office
can enter into contractual agreements, authority is not granted to expend
additional funds on the installed base of minicomputers except to maintain
regular day-to-day operations.
                           CELLULAR 'TELEPHONES

       The Judicial Conference approved the recommendation of the Committee
to seek funding from Congress for the purchase and recurring costs of cellular
telephones for judicial officers and supporting personnel. In the interim, such
purchases may be made only from other lawful spending sources. See also
"CELLULAR TELEPHONES," supra, p. 11.

                              LIBRARY PROGRAM

       Upon recommendation of the Automation and Technology Committee,
the Judicial Conference approved the followirlg:

1.      Amendments to the lists of basic lawbooks for judicial officers found in
        Vol. I, Chapter VIII, Part M, Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures;

2.      The allocation of $2,000 for each new or replacement judge for
        discretionary purchases of legal reference materials, subject to the
        availability of appropriated funds; and

3.      The purchase of legal newspapers for judges, subject to the availability
        of appropriated funds.

     COMMITITX ON ADMINISTRATION OF TIrIE BANKRUPTCY S Y m

                 PLACES OF HOLDING BANKRUPTCY COURT

        Upon request of the Judicial Council of the Sixth Circuit, the Judicial
Conference approved the elimination of Mansfield, Ohio, as a place of holding
bankruptcy court for the Northern District of Ohio. The Conference also
approved, upon request of the Judicial Council of the Sixth Circuit, the change
in the designation of Corbin, Kentucky, as a place of holding bankruptcy court
to "London or Corbin, Kentucky."

                       BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATORS

        The "Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States
Governing the Selection and Appointment of Bankruptcy Administrators" (Guide
to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, Vol. V, Chap. X) did not provide guidelines
for the reappointment of bankruptcy administrators since, under the Bankruptcy
Judges, United States Trustees, and Family Farmer Bankruptcy Act of 1986
(Public Law No. 99-554), the bankruptcy administrator program was due to
expire in 1992. However, the program was extended by the Judicial
Improvements Act of 1990 (Public Law No. 101-650) until 2002. Thus, the
Judicial Conference, on recommendation of the Comrrrittee on the Administration
of the Bankruptcy System, approved the amendment of the bankruptcy
administrator appointment regulations to provide procedural guidelines for the
reappointment of bankruptcy administrators whose original terms will soon
expire.

                 RECALL OF RErlRED BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

       In order to retain the skills and experience of the large number of
bankruptcy judges for whom retirement is imminent, the Judicial Conference
adopted regulations for an extended recall program for bankruptcy judges.
These regulations will be published in the Guide to Judiciary Policies and
Procedures.

     COMMITTEX ON THE BICENTENNIAL OF THE CONSTlTUTION

       On recommendation of the Committee on the Bicentennial of the
Constitution, the Judicial Conference transferred remaining Committee funds to
the Federal Judicial Center for the preparation of the Third Edition of Judges of
the United States. The work of the Committee having been completed, the
Conference approved its request for discharge.

                       COMlWITEE ON THE BUDGE3

        The Committee on the Budget reported on budgetary matters including
the fiscal year 1992 appropriation, the status of the fiscal year 1992 financial
plan, and the fiscal year 1992 supplemental request submission for defender
services; efforts to coordinate the judiciary's budget submissions; and the status
of budget decentralization.

                   COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

       The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report,
the Committee had received 39 new written inquiries and issued 31 advisory
responses. The Chairman received and responded to 44 telephonic inquiries.
In addition, individual Committee members responded to 56 informal inquiries
from their colleagues.

                       FEDERAL ETHICS LAW REFORM

      The Judicial Conference approved the Committee's recommendations
to amend its regulations implementing Titles Ill and VI of the Ethics Reform Act
of 1989, relating to gifts and outside earned income, honoraria, and outside
employment, to (1) cover the judges and employees of the Court of Veterans
Appeals; (2) reflect the amendments to the Ethics Reform Act relating to the
change in the definition of "honorarium" and the exclusion from the limitation on
outside earned income of compensation from approved teaching activities by
certain senior judges; and (3) clarify when and under what circumstances prior
approval for compensated teaching activities must be obtained.

 CO-             ON COURT ADMINISTRATION AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                         PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

        Under the current policy established in September 1978 (JCUS-SEP 78,
pp. 45-46), the Committee considers and makes recommendations to the
Judicial Conference on changes in the geographical configuration and
organization of existing judicial districts only if the changes are viewed favorably
by both the affected court(s) and the circuit judicial council. Although the
Committee on Court Administration and Case Management recommended a
revision of the current Judicial Conference policy, the Judicial Conference
declined to change it.

                                 JURY MAlTERS

        Noting that difficulties occasionally arise in the application of the Jury
Selection and Service Act to the restoration of civil rights of persons convicted
of felonies (28 U.S.C. § 1865(b)(5)), the Conference agreed to urge Congress
to amend the Act to allow for easier and more uniform application in qualifying
persons who have been convicted in a state or federal court of a crime
punishable by imprisonment for more than one year.

                        UNITED STATES CLAIMS COURT

        On .the recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference took
the following actions with respect to the proposed "Claims Court Technical and
Procedural Improvements Act of 1991" (See also "United States Claims Court,"
supra, p. 9, and infra,pp. 22-23, 23-24, 26):

1.     Supported the proposed amendments contained in

       a.      Section I l ( a ) which would expand the places outside of
               Washington, D.C., where the Claims Court can hold court;

       b.      Section 13 providing the Claims Court with authority, like district
               courts and the Court of International Trade, to order payment of
               costs whenever an action is dismissed for lack of jurisdiction;
       c.      Section 14 which specifies that the Claims Court be included in
               the definition of "a court of the United States" for the limited
               purposes of 28 U.S.C. 9 1821 (per diem and mileage for
               witnesses), 28 U.S.C. 9 1915 (proceedings in forma pauperis), 28
               U.S.C. 9 1920 (taxation of costs) and 28 U.S.C. 9 1927 (counsel's
               liability for excessive costs); and

       d.      Section 15 which would give the Claims Court contempt powers;

2.     Opposed the proposed amendment contained in section 2, to change
       the name of the Court to the United States Court of Claims, but
       supported a subsequent Claims Court proposal to change its name to
       the "United States Court of Federal Claims"; and

3.     Took no position on section 11(c), authorizing Claims Court proceedings
       to be held in a foreign country upon order of the chief judge, pending
       receipt of comments from the Department of State and further review by
       the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management.

             FEDERAL PROPERTY AND ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
                      AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 1991

        Section 308 of the proposed Federal Property and Administrative
Services Authorization Act of 1991 (H.R. 3161) would (1) shorten the time in
which a party has to file an appeal under the Act; and (2) transfer appellate
jurisdiction over GSA Board of Contract Appeals cases from the United States
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit to the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit. Upon recommendation of the Committee,
the Judicial Conference supported shortening the time for filing an appeal from
the GSA Board of Contract Appeals and opposed the transfer of appellate
jurisdiction of such cases to the District of Columbia Circuit.

             COMMIlTEE ON COURT AND JUDICIAL SECURITY

            BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS OF COURT EMPLOYEES

        The Judicial Conference approved the recommendation of the Committee
on Court and Judicial Security that courts be authorized, on a limited basis, to
request a "record check (name, fingerprint, credit or National Crime Information
Center check) where the court is appointing or promoting an employee to what
it considers a sensitive position.
                          EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

       In order to raise the security consciousness of the judiciary, the
Conference endorsed a policy t~ incorporate the subject of judicial security in
the education programs of the Federal Judicial Center, circuit conferences, or
other entities.



                           SENTENCING INSTITUTE

        The Judicial Conference approved a sentencing institute for the judges
of the Third, Seventh, and District of Columbia Circuits in the fall of 1992, at a
site to be determined, subject to the development and approval of the agenda.

                          SENTENCING COMMISSION

        The Conference approved for submission to the United States Sentencing
Commission the Annual Report of the Judicial Conference of the United States
to the United States Sentencing Commfision, March 1992, required by 28 U.S.C.
9 994(0).
                   COMMITIEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES

                       APPOINTMENTS AND PAYMENTS

       The Defender Services Committee reported that during the fiscal year
1991, approximately 78,594 persons were represented in United States courts
pursuant to the. provisions of the Criminal Justice Act (CJA), compared to 71,608
appointments in the fiscal year 1990 and 69,954 appoir~tmentsin the fiscal year
1989. This represents an increase of 12 percent over the fiscal year 1990 and
12.4 percent over the fiscal year 1989. Of the 78,594 persons represented,
approximately 49.1 percent were represented by federal public and community
defender organizations.

                   -FUNDING OF FEDERAL PUBI-IC AND
                  COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATIONS

       Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR
89, p. 16), the Committee reviewed and approved funding requests for fiscal
years 1992 and 1993 from federal public defender organizations and traditional
community defender organizations, as follows:
                      Federal Public Defender Organizations

         Fiscal Year 1992                                  Amount Approved

         California (Eastern)
         District of Columbia
         Nebraska
         Oklahoma (Eastern & Northern)
         Oklahoma (Western)
         South Carolina

         Fiscal Year 1993                                  Amount Approved

         California (Eastern)
         District of Columbia
         Nebraska
         Oklahoma (Eastern & Northern)
         Oklahoma (Western)

     Supplement to previously approved budget

" The $450,557 budget and the $615,948 budget represent a reallocation of the
      $1,066,505 previously approved budget for the single organization which had
      served all three districts.

"*   This includes a budget supplement of $76,648.

                        Communitv Defender Organizations

          Fiscal Year 1992                                 Amount Approved

         Montana Federal Defender project
         Federal Defender Program, Inc.
          Georgia (Northern)
         The Legal Aid Society
          New York (Eastern & Southern)

          Fiscal Year 1993                                 Amount Approved

         Montana Federal Defender Project
         The Legal Aid Society
          New York (Eastern & Southern)

     Supplement to previously approved grant.
             FUNDING FOR DEATH PENALTY RESOURCE CENTERS

      The Committee also reviewed and approved requests for fiscal year 1992
and 1993 funding for death penalty respurce centers as set forth below:

         Fiscal Year 1992                                  Amount Approved

         Arkansas Death Penalty
           Resource Center
         Capital Case Resource Center
           of Tennessee
         Nevada Appellate and Post-
           Conviction Legal Education Project
         Pennsylvania Death Penalty
           Resource Center
         Virginia Post Conviction
          Assistance Project

         Fiscal Year 1993                                  Amount Approved

         Arkansas Death Penalty
            Resource Center
         Georgia Appellate Practice and
            Educational Resource Center, Inc.
         Illinois Capital Resource Center
         Nevada Appellate and Post-
            Conviction Legal Education Project
         Pennsylvania Death Penalty
            Resource Center
         Virginia Post Conviction
            Assistance Project
 *   Supplement to previously approved grant.

                    CRIMINAL JUS1-ICE ACT COMPENSATION

        At its September 1991 session, the Judicial Conference delegated to the
Defender Services Committee the authority to approve attorney pay cost
adjustments for districts and in individual cases (JCUS-SEP 91, p. 57). Pursuant
to that authority, the Committee, upon consideration of the results of a survey,
the recommendations of the judicial councils for the circuits, and the
recommendations of the Administrative Office, approved pay cost adjustments
of $75 per hour for in-court and out-of-court services for 28 districts as follows.
Such adjustments are subject, as always, to the availability of funds.
       Alabama (Northern)                   North Carolina-(Eastern)
       Alabama (Middle)                     North Carolina (Middle)
       Arkansas (Eastern)                   North Dakota
       Colorado                             Northern Mariana Islands
       Delaware                             Oklahoma (Northern)
       Georgia (Middle)                     Oklahoma (Eastern)
       Georgia (Southern)                   Oklahoma (Western)
       lowa (Northern)                      Pennsylvania (Eastern)
       lowa (Southern)                      Puerto Rico
       Kansas                               Utah
       Minnesota                            Vermont
       Montana                              Virgin lslands
       New Hampshire                        Washington (Eastern)
       New York (Western)                   Wyoming

       The Committee also approved for the District of Hawaii, an increase to
$75 of the pay cost adjustment of $70 per hour for both in-court and out-of-
court services currently in effect.

                REIMBURSEMENT FROM FORFEITED ASSETS

        The application of asset forfeiture provisions has resulted in a number of
defendants becoming eligible for the appointment of counsel pursuant to the
CJA who, but for the forfeiture of their assets, would have retained counsel.
Thus, asset forfeitures result in additional costs to the Defender Services
appropriation. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
endorsed efforts by the Administrative Office to obtain legislation to reimburse
the Defender Services appropriation from the Department of Justice Assets
Forfeiture Fund for those costs associated with providing CJA representation for
defendants whose assets have been forfeited.



                       UNITED STATES CLAIMS COURT

         Section 12 of the proposed "Claims Court Technical and Procedural
Improvements Act of 1991" provides for (1) an extension of the Claims Court's
power to issue declaratory judgments; (2) a grant of jurisdiction to the Claims
Court to hear ancillary claims arising under the Federal Tort Claims Act; (3) the
repeal of 28 U.S.C. 9 1500, which prohibits the Claims Court from hearing
plaintiffs' claims if they have related cases pending in other courts; and (4)
modification to existing claim certification requirements, such that current
jurisdictional thresholds could be waived by the government in certain cases.
Because such expansion of jurisdiction for the Claims Court may have the
                                        r
                                    s


unintended effect of granting the Claims Court jurisdiction beyond the confines
of Article I, the Judicial Conference opposed this section of the proposed Act.
See also, "United States Claims Court," supra, pp. 9, 17-18, and infra, pp. 23-
24, 26.

              CO-             ON XN'IERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
        The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the
period August 1, 1991, through December 31, 1991, 82 intercircuit assignments
were recommended by the Committee and approved by the Chief Justice to be
undertaken by 62 Article Ill justices and judges. Of this number, two were
retired associate justices, 17 were senior circuit judges, eight were active circuit
judges, 27 were senior district judges, five were active district judges, two were
senior judges of the Court of International Trade, and three were active judges
of the Court of International Trade.

                    COMMIITEX ON        THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

            TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR JUS'TICES AND JUDGES

       The Judicial Conference approved amendments to the Travel Regulations
for United States Justices and Judges to:

1.     Allow a higher daily rate for reimbursement of actual subsistence
       expenses in localities in which special or unusual circumstances result
       in a temporary increase in subsistence costs or otherwise render the
       ordinary expense allowance inadequate;

2.     Allow judicial nominees and newly appointed judges to be reimbursed for
       travel expenses incurred in attending orientation programs sponsored by
       the Administrative Office or the courts to which they have been
       nominated or appointed; and

3.     Allow, for travel to locations outside the conterminous United States, a
       reduced per diem on the last day of travel, or where lodging is obtained
       by purchase order, that is equivalent to the applicable GSA meals and
       incidental expense rate.

                        UNITED STATES CLAIMS COURT

      On recommendation of the Judicial Branch Committee, the Judicial
Conference took the following positions on the proposed "Claims Court
Technical and Procedural Improvements Act of 1991" (see also, "United States
Claims Court," supra, pp. 9, 17-18, 22-23 and infra, p. 26):
                                         3
1.     Supported enactment of section 5, which would exempt retired judges of
       that court from the social security tax and "earnings test" during recall
       service, if modified to apply exclusively to judges who retire under 28
       U.S.C. 9 178(a) or (b) and perform recall service under 9 178(d);

2.     Supported enactment of section 6, which would treat judges of that court
       as "judges of the United States" for purposes of federal employee
       insurance and annuity programs, if modified to state that Claims Court
       judges are "officers" within the meaning of section 2104(a) of title 5,
       United States Code; and

3.     Opposed enactment of section 9, which would exempt retired judges of
       that court from recall service under 28 U.S.C. § 375, and allow judges
       who retire under 28 U.S.C. 9 178 to perform voluntary recall service under
       9 797 of that title.
                     COMMrITEE ON JUDICIAL hTHICS

        The Judicial Ethics Committee reported that as of January 1992, it had
received 2,040 financial disclosure reports and certifications for the calendar year
1990, including 1,034 reports and certifications from justices and Article Ill
judges, 294 from bankruptcy judges, 357 from magistrate judges, and 355 from
judicial employees.

                  COMMTlTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES

                               SALARY MATCHING

        In order to improve the courts' ability to compete with other employers
for top quality candidates, the Judicial Conference endorsed the
recommendation of 4he Committee on Judicial Resources that the judiciary's
salary matching policy be revised. This policy, which allows setting the pay of
employees entering the federal service at higher than the first step of the
applicable grade in certain circumstances, is amended to (1) extend coverage
of the policy to temporary appointments; (2) allow setting of salary at up to 20
percent above the applicant's current, non-federal salary, but not to exceed the
rate for step ten of the grade at which the applicant is appointed; (3) allow
setting of salary at a higher rate for applicants without current income or a bona
fide employment offer, if the candidate has a reasonable prospect of obtaining
employment at the former salary level; (4) allow consideration of the value of the
applicant's current fringe benefits, if they are substantially better than those
offered by the federal government; and (5) redefine llbona fide offer" to
encompass a written offer that does not include a salary commitment.

                        SAVED GRADE AND SAVED PAY

       The Judicial Conference approved the Committee's recommended
revision to the saved grade and saved pay policy to provide the same coverage
for secretaries of deceased judges as is currently provided for other covered
court employees, with the exception that the two-year saved grade period will
be reduced by any time the secretary has been retained in the secretarial
position following the judge's death.

                  JUDICIARY SALARY PLAN MODIFICATIONS

        On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference took the
following actions regarding position classifications and benchmark standards,
subject, as always, to the availability of funds:

1.     Approved revisions to the benchmark standards for supervising probation
       and pretrial services officers, that would allow one additional grade above
       the highest target grade of at least two non-supervisory subordinate
       officer positions, if there are at least three subordinates in total, and if the
       highest graded subordinates constitute at least 25 percent of the total
       staff supervised;

2.     Approved an increase in the target grade for supervising staff attorneys
       to JSP-15;

3.     Approved an increase in the target grade of secretary to the circuit
       librarian to JSP-9, and the deletion of the requirement for law library
       experience for that position;

4.     Approved revisions to the benchmark standard for assistant systems
       managers, deleting the restriction which limits use of the standard to
       those courts where the systems manager supervises an automation
       support staff of six or more full-time positions;

5.     Approved an upgrade of the training center manager (automation)
       position to JSP-14;

6.     Approved the upgrade and retitling of the central violations bureau
       administrator position to central violations bureau manager, JSP-12, and
            -
       approved revision of the qualification requirements to include managerial
       experience;

7.     Established a benchmark standard for appellate transcript coordinator,
       JSP-9;

8.     Approved a revision which would allow a court whose size warrants
       classification of a grade JSP-18 for its clerk of court or chief probation
       officer to establish an organizational structure which consists of a chief
       deputy clerk or deputy chief probation officer at the appropriate grade of
       either JSP-15 or JSP-16 (depending upon the target grade of the unit
       head) and up to two JSP-14 mid-managerial positions, exclusive of
       appropriately classified deputy-in-charge positions, regardless of whether
       the grade of the district clerk in a given district prevents the bankruptcy
       clerk or chief probation officer in that district from being assigned to the
       JSP-18 grade level; and

9.     Approved a revision to the benchmark standard for chief deputy clerks
       and deputy chief probation officers to allow a JSP-16 target grade for a
       chief deputy district clerk, a chief deputy bankruptcy clerk, and a deputy
       chief probation officer in courts where the clerk or chief probation officer
       is graded JSP-18.

       ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF DISTRICT JUDGE
                    IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

      The Judicial Conference approved an upgrade of the position of
administrative assistant to the Chief District Judge in the District of Columbia to
JSP-15.

                        UNITED STATES CLAIMS COURT

        Under section 10 of the proposed "Claims Court Technical and
Procedural Improvements Act of 1991," Claims Court judges would be authorized
to appoint an equal number of law clerks and secretaries as the number allowed
under Conference rules for district court judges. This provision would be a
statutory restriction on the Judicial Conference's authority to determine the
appropriate number of chambers employees for a specific group of judges. On
recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, the Conference
opposed section 10 of the proposed legislation, on the ground that legislation
is an inappropriate mechanism to determine chambers staffing requirements.
See also, "United States Claims Court," supra, pp. 9, 17-18, 22-23, 23-24.
              STAFFING GUIDELINES FOR NON-UNIX COLIRTS

        The Judicial Conference endorsed the Committee's recommendation to
adopt for courts operating NlBS (National Interim Bankruptcy System), JAMS
(Judiciary Automation Management System), and other non-LINIX automation
systems that are of complexity similar to that of UNIX-based systems, the current
staffing guidelines that are applicable to UNIX-based courts, provided that such
systems, other than NlBS or JAMS, are certified by the Committee on
Automation and Technology. The revisions to the staffing guidelines will provide
non-UNIX courts with the position additives needed to operate systems which
have requirements similar to those of the UNlX systems.

                       CONTRACT COURT REPORTERS

        In order to provide temporary relief while a study of the present method
for assigning court reporter positions to the courts is being conducted, the
Judicial Conference amended its policy so as to allow a court to hire a contract
court reporter when all of the following conditions exist:

1.     The official court reporter has requested relief because a judge has
       scheduled more than one trial per day, and the reporter is reporting for
       at least five hours on each such day;

2.     The chief judge of the district certifies that a judge has scheduled more
       than one trial per day requiring reporting services for five or more hours
       per day, and the court's other official court reporters are unable to cover
       the proceedings because they are scheduled to report other proceedings
       or are on leave;

3.     The purpose for considering and approving the relief is not to allow the
       official court reporter to work on transcript production; and

4.     An official court reporter not under a tour of duty who is providing relief
       is prohibited from engaging in private reporting work on those days relief
       is provided.

              GRADE AND 'I'ITLE OF SECRETARIES TO JUDGES

       Declining to overrule a Committee decision to disapprove a request to
change the title of the benchmark standard from secretary to a federal judge to
administrative assistant or chambers administrator, and to increase the target
grade of the benchmark from JSP-11 to JSP-13, the Judicial Conference
recommitted to the Judicial Resources Committee for study and a report to the
September 1992 session of the Conference, the issues of (1) grade and title of
secretaries to judges; and (2) grade of principal secretary to chief district judges.

                              PRO SE LAW CLERKS

       The Judicial Conference affirmed the Judicial Resources Committee's
disapproval of a request to extend to pro se law clerks the JSP-15 and JSP-
16 grade levels available for "elbow," or chambers, law clerks.

                 CO-               ON LONG RANGE PLANNING

        The Committee on Long Range Planning reported that in addition to
assigning to each member a liaison responsibility with other Conference
committees, the Chairman has assigned oversight responsibilities over general
tasks such as (1) establishing a mission/role for the judiciary; (2) providing
 planning support to judicial planners; (3) assessing court structure and
governance; and (4) developing a planning handbook to guide those in the
judiciary whose duties involve strategic planning.

                  COMMllTEX ON THE ADMINSTRATION
                  OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                       PART-TIME MAGISTRATE JUDGES

        On recommendation of the Magistrate Judges Committee, the Judicial
Conference adopted a new salary structure for part-time magistrate judges.
This new structure reduces the number of salary levels from 14 to the following
eight levels:

                           Level                            Salarv




       The Judicial Conference also adopted the following plan for transition
from the current salary structure to the new salary structure:
                    Former Salarv Level                    New Salarv
                        or Salarv                            -
                                                             Level




        Notwithstandirlg the above transition plan, the salaries of the following
part-time magistrate judge positions will be maintained at their current levels until
further specific action of the Judicial Conference: Abilene, Texas; Santa Barbara,
California; Barstow (or Victorville), California; Oxnard (or Ventura), California;
Long Beach, California; South Lake Tahoe, California; Hilo, Hawaii; and
McAlester, Oklahoma.

        In order to clarify what is expected of part-time magistrate judges, the
Conference adopted the Committee's proposed "General Expectations of Part-
Time Magistrate Judges." These expectations, which follow, are intended to
apply to all part-time magistrate judges except those compensated at level eight,
although it is hoped that the level eight magistrate judges would meet the
expectations to the extent practicable:

1.     The part-time magistrate judge will be available to the district court and
       law enforcement agencies on a reasonable basis, notwithstanding that
       such availability may interrupt other activities.

2.     The part-time magistrate judge will stay abreast of legal, procedural and
       administrative developments related to the performance of official duties
       by reading the Legal Manual for United States Magistrate Judges and
       other appropriate materials.

3.     The part-time magistrate judge will timely review training materials and
       attend training seminars offered by the Federal Judicial Center.

4.     The part-time magistrate judge will confer with the court at the
       headquarters of the court or other designated location at least once each
       year, if summoned by the court.

5.     The part-time magistrate judge will serve as back-up to the district's full-
       time magistrate judges for reasonable lengths of time on request (e.g.,
       when the full-time magistrate judges attend FJC seminars or circuit
       conferences). '

6.     The part-time magistrate judge will ensure that all appropriate paperwork
       is filled out in accordance with instructions. The JS 43 statistical report
       forms will be completed on a timely basis and submitted to the
       Magistrate Judges Division of the Administrative Office.

7.     The part-time magistrate judge will follow the rules and regulations
       established by the Judicial Conference, particularly those related to
       conflicts-of-interest and the reimbursement of expenses.

                             MISDEMEANOR TRIALS

       Consistent with its policy endorsing the elimination of written consent in
misdemeanor cases (JCUS-SEP 91, p. 66), the Judicial Conference, on
recommendation of the Magistrate Judges Committee, endorsed in principle an
"opt out" or waiver system for obtaining the consent of the defendant to trial
before a magistrate judge in a misdemeanor case.

                     ADJOINING DISTRICT JURISDICTION

       In order to clarify adjoining district jurisdiction, the Judicial Conference
authorized the following:

1.     The full-time magistrate judge at Knoxville, Tennessee, and the full-time
       magistrate judge at Knoxville (or Chattanooga), Tennessee, to serve in
       the adjoining Western District of North Carolina;

2.     The full-time magistrate judge at Richmond, Virginia, to serve in the
       adjoining Eastern District of North Carolina and the Western District of
       Virginia; and

3.     The part-time magistrate judge at Riclimond to serve in the adjoining
                                                                                      '
       Eastern District of North Carolina and the Western District of Virginia.

       To avoid confusion as to which positions have been specifically
designated to serve in adjoining districts, the Conference passed the following
resolution extending existing adjoining district jurisdiction designations to all
magistrate judge positions subsequently authorized at the same location:

              Where a full-time or part-time magistrate judge position
       has been authorized specifically by the Judicial Conference to
       exercise adjoining district jurisdiction, any full-time or part-time
         .
       magistrate judge position established subsequently at the same
       location is authorized to exercise the same jurisdiction. This
       resolution is to apply prospectively, and to all existing positions.

                CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

       After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts,
and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Conference approved the following
changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrate
judge positions. Unless otherwise indicated, these changes are to be effective
when appropriated funds are available.

                                 FIRST CIRCUIT

Massachusetts

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Boston;
       and

2.     Made no other changes in the number, locations, salaries, or
       arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district, except as
       noted above in the section entitled "Part-Time Magistrate Judges," supra
       pp. 28-30.

Rhode Island

1.     Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Providence to full-
       time status;

2.     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
       Providence from $33,513 to $47,877 per annum until such time as the
       new full-time magistrate judge at Providence is appointed; and

3.     Made no other changes in the number, locations, salaries, or
       arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district, except as
       noted above in the section entitled "Part-Time Magistrate Judges," supra
       pp. 28-30.

                               SECOND CIRCUIT

New York, Eastern

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Brooklyn;
2.    Authorized a full-time magistrate judge position at Uniondale; and

3.    Made no other changes in the number, locations, salaries, or
      arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district, except as
      noted above in the section entitled "Part-Time Magistrate Judges," supra
      pp. 28-30.

                               THIRD CIRCUIT

New Jersey

1.    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position to serve the
      court at Newark; and

2.    Made no other changes in the number, locations, salaries, or
      arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district, except as
      noted above in the section entitled "Part-Time Magistrate Judges," supra
      pp. 28-30.

                              FOURTH CIRCUIT

North Carolina, Western

1.    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position to serve the
      court at Charlotte; and

2.    Made no other changes in the number, locations, salaries, or
      arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                               FIFTH CIRCUIT

Texas, Western

1.    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Austin or
      Waco;

2.    Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at San Antonio to a
      full-time position;

3.    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Midland-
      Odessa or Pecos;

4.    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Midland
      (or Odessa) from $23,938to $47,877 per annum;


                                     32
5.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge positions at Pecos and
         Midland (or Odessa) upon the appointment of the new full-time
         magistrate judge at Midland-Odessa or Pecos; and

6.       Made no other changes in the number, locations, salaries, or
         arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district, except as
         noted above in the section entitled "Part-Time Magistrate Judges," supra
         pp. 28-30.

                                   SIXTH CIRCUIT

Ohio, Northern

1.       Authorized a new full-time magistrate judge position to serve the court at
         Cleveland; and

2.       Made no other changes in the number, locations, salaries, or
         arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                                  EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Missouri, Eastern

1.       Authorized two additional full-time magistrate judge positions at St. Louis;
         and

2.       Made no other changes in the number, locations, salaries, or
         arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                                   NINTH CIRCUIT

Alaska

1.       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Anchorage to full-
         time status; and

2.       Made no other changes in the number, salaries, or locations of the
         magistrate judge positions in the district, except as noted above in the
         section entitled "Part-Time Magistrate Judges," supra pp. 28-30.

California, Northern

         Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Eureka
         from $4,787 to $7,180 per annum.
Oregon

       lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Medford
       from $7,180 to $28,726 per qnnum.

                                 'TENTH CIRCUIT

Oklahoma, Western

1.     Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Oklahoma City to
       full-time status;

2.     Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Altus; and

3.     Made no other changes in the number, locations, salaries, or
       arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district, except as
       noted above in the section entitled "Part-Time Magistrate Judges," supra
       pp. 28-30.

                               ELEVENTH ClRCLllT

Florida, Southern

       lncreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Fort
       Pierce from $4,787 to $23,938 per annum.

Georgia, Middle

1.     Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Albany to a full-
       time magistrate judge position at Macon or Albany; and

2.     Made no other changes in the number, locations, salaries or
       arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district, except as
       noted above in the section entitled "Part-Time Magistrate Judges," supra
       pp. 28-30.

                       m REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
                c0rmm-m~
                    CONDUCl' AND DISABILITY ORDERS

                        COURT OF VETERANS APPEALS

        Under section 3 of Public Law 102-82, the Court of Veterans Appeals, an
Article I court not subject to the administrative authority of the Judicial
Conference (with the limited exception of the filing of financial disclosure reports
under 28 U.S.C. App. II) is required to establish procedures, consistent with 28
U.S.C. 9 372(c), for the filing, investigation, and resolution of complaints with
respect to the conduct or disability of any judge of the Court. However, there
is no statutory provision for independent review of the Court's disciplinary
actions. Upon request of the Chief Judge of the Court for the views of the
Judicial Conference, the Committee recommended and the Conference
approved a communication to the Court of Veterans Appeals and the Congress
that the Conference does not object to properly drafted legislation providing the
Conference a review role over the disposition of conduct and disability
complaints involving judges of the Court of Veterans Appeals, but only if (1)
consistent treatment is given to other Article I courts outside the Conference
structure in the event they were to adopt a procedure pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
§ 372(c); and (2) it is clarified that the Conference is not thereby required to
assume any other administrative function vis-a-vis those courts (except the
review of financial disclosure reports, already independently required by law).

        CO-             O N RULES OF PRACI'ICE AND PROCEDURE

        The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that, at the
request of the Chief Justice, it has asked the chairs and reporters of the
advisory committees to include with any proposed rules changes to be
submitted to the Supreme Court, a summary to indicate which of the proposed
changes were the subject of substantial contdoversy, the arguments made on
both sides, the reasoning of the committees in deciding the controversial
matters the way they did, information regarding divisions of opinion within the
responsible committees, and any substantial objections to the proposed
changes. In addition, a plan for the review by the Style Subcommittee of
proposed amendments to the various federal procedural rules has been
adopted, and a review of the proposed rules amendments currently in circulation
will be completed before the next Committee meeting.

                  CO-            O N SPACE AND FAClISllES

                 UNITED STATES COURTS DESIGN GUIDE

       The Judicial Conference approved amendments to the United States
Courts Design Guide, recommended by the Committee on Space and Facilities,
(1) making a technical change relevant to the number of judicial officers required
for establishment of satellite and unstaffed court libraries; and (2) adding
language concerning accessibility of federal defender offices.
              SPACE EMERGENCY IN BROOKLYN, NEW YORK

         On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved
the following resolution concerning the serious housing situation in the Eastern
District of New York at Brooklyn:

       WHEREAS, in September 1989, the Judicial Conference of the
       United States declared, for the first and only time to date, a
       "judicial space emergency" in the Eastern District of New York at
       Brooklyn due to the serious lack of adequate facilities in which to
       conduct court business, and no significant progress has been
       made toward resolving the court's critical housing problems; and

       WHEREAS, within the next several months four judges will be
       eligible and may take senior status and no courtrooms or
       chambers are available for these judicial officers; and

       WHEREAS, thecourt's caseload during the last five years has
       increased 12 percent as compared to a national decrease of 14
       percent; for the year ended June 30, 1991, the workload of the
       court increased nine percent compared to a national decrease of
       four percent; and over the last five years the court devoted
       roughly 60 percent of its trial time to criminal cases, as compared
       to a national average of 40 percent; and

       WHEREAS, in spite of the efforts of the Congress to direct the
       Executive Branch's General Services Administration to resolve the
       judicial space emergency, the Executive Branch has been unable
       to provide a solution to the long term housing needs of the
       Judiciary in Brooklyn;

       NOW THEREFORE, the Judicial Conference of the United States
       reaffirms the urgent need to alleviate the critical housing problems
       of the court at Brooklyn, New York, by endorsing a plan to move
       the court into a renovated and greatly expanded Brooklyn General
       Post Office Building, and requests that all interested parties be
       advised of this resolution, including Congressmen and Senators
       from New York, the Chairmen of the House and Senate Public
       Works and Postal Service Committees and respective
       Subcommittee Chairmen, the Director of the Office of Management
       and Budget, and the Administrator of General Services.
                                 RESOLUTIONS

        In appreciation of Judge Donald P. Lay, the Judicial Conference adopted
the following resolution:

              The Judicial Conference of the United States, recognizes
       with appreciation, respect and admiration the

                        HONORABLE DONALD P. LAY

       of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.

               Judge Lay was appointed to the Court of Appeals on July
       22, 1966, where he served for twenty-five years. At the time of his
       appointment, at the age of thirty-nine, he was the second
       youngest person to be appointed to the Court of Appeals. From
       January 1, 1980, until January 7, 1992, he served as the circuit's
       chief judge.

               Judge Lay was a member of the United States Judicial
       Conference's Committee on Trial Practice and Technique from
       1969-1970; a consultant to the Federal Judicial Center's Advisory
       Committee on State-Federal Relations from 1968-1970; a member
       of the Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules from 1973-1978;
       and a member of the Executive Board of the American Judicature
       Society from 1979-82. Since 1979, he has served on the U.S.
       Judicial Conference, the longest tenure of any chief judge in the
       nation.

               Among Judge Lay's many distinctive honors was the
       Hanker-Finkbins Award from the University of Iowa in 1980, and
       a judicial achievement award as the Outstanding Federal Appellate
       Judge of the year in 1982, by the American Trial Lawyers. In
       1988, he was awarded the prestigious Herbert Harley Award by
       the American Judicature Society in recognition of his contribution
       to the administration of justice.

               Judge Lay's years as Chief Judge of the Eighth Circuit
       Court of Appeals have been marked by his commitment to
       opening the judicial process. During his tenure, federal practice
       committees were formed in each district to allow lawyers to have
       a greater voice in district court rules and procedures. In addition,
       selective invitations to the Eighth Circuit Judicial Conference were
       abandoned and open registration of all attorneys was adopted.
      Circuit and district court historical societies were organized with
      the goal of preserving histories of all judges by videotape and
      portrait.

              His commitment to civil rights is unparalleled. He has
      actively promoted the development of federal public defender
      programs and death penalty resource centers in the Eighth
      Circuit. In over 1,000 opinions, he has authored major death
      penalty cases, significant decisions on Indian law, and important
      cases dealing with free speech and women's rights. He has
      written extensively on federal habeas corpus and authored the
      dissent adopted by the Supreme Court in its landmark decision
      establishing due process for federal and state prisoners.

              Judge Lay's friend and Eighth Circuit colleague, Senior
      Judge Myron H. Bright has said of him, "As a judge, he has been
      doggedly devoted to the pursuit of equal justice for everyone in
      this country and in his opinions for the court, has extended civil
      rights to all citizens regardless of race, sex, or religion."

              For his principled leadership, his unyielding dedication to
       the work of the court, and his compassionate commitment to
       those served by the courts, we thank him and extend our highest
       esteem and gratitude.


                -
        On behalf of the Judicial Conference, the Executive Committee adopted
the following resolution:

              The Judicial Conference of the United States, recognizes
       with appreciation, respect and admiration the

                  HONORABLE AUBREY E. ROBINSON, JR.

       Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the District of
       Columbia and a member of this Conference from September 14,
       1982, to March 30, 1992.

                During his tenure on the federal bench, Judge Robinson
       has served the Conference and the judiciary in many capacities,
       including membership on the Ad Hoc Committee on Court
       Facilities and Design, 1971-1975; the Committee on Administration
       of the Criminal Law, 1977-1983; the Committee to Study the
       Judicial Conference, 1986-1987; and the Board of the Federal
       Judicial Center and its Bench Book Committee, 1978-1982. Both
       Retired Chief Justice Burger and Chief Justice Rehnquist
       demonstrated their confidence in Judge Robinson's effectiveness,
       reliability, and judgment by appointing him to the Executive
       Committee of the Judicial Conference. While serving on the
       Executive Committee, Judge Robinson's adjunct assignments
       included serving on the ad hoc committee to develop strategy for
       consideration and appropriate action on the Civil Justice Reform
       Act of 1990, and chairing the Legislative Liaison Group, the
       organization of the Executive Committee that coordinates contacts
       between the judicial and legislative branches.

                Judge Robinson has carried out his responsibilities to the
       Cpnference, the Executive Committee, and the United States
       District Court for the District of Columbia, with skill, tact and
       ability. He has set and continues to maintain a high standard as
       a dedicated public servant and has earned the regard, respect
       and esteem of his colleagues. We will miss his wise counsel and
       friendship during the sessions of the Judicial Conference, and
       extend -our congratulations and deep appreciation for his many
       contributions to the administration of justice.

                                   FUNDING

        All of the foregoing recommendations which require the expenditure of
funds for implementation were approved by the Conference subject to the
availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the Conference might
establish for the use of available resources.

                    RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

        The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters considered
at this session where necessary for legislative or administrative action.




                                    Chief Justice of the United States
                                    Presiding

May 26, 1992
