              REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
           JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES

                                  March 16, 1993


       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington, D.C.,
on March 16, 1993, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United States
issued under 28 U.S.C. 5 331. The Chief Justice presided, and the following
members of the Conference were present:

       First Circuit:

               Chief Judge Stephen G. Breyer
               Judge Francis J. Boyle,
                      District of Rhode Island

       Second Circuit:

               Chief Judge Thomas J. Meskill
               Judge Charles L. Brieant,
                      Southern District of New York

       Third Circuit:

               Chief Judge Dolores K. Sloviter
               Chief Judge John F. Gerry,
                      District of New Jersey

       Fourth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Sam J. Ervin, Ill
               Judge W. Earl Britt,
                      Eastern District of North Carolina

       Fifth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Henry A. Politz
               Chief Judge Morey L. Sear,
                      Eastern District of Louisiana

       Sixth Circuit:

               Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt
               Judge Edward H. Johnstone,
                      Western District of Kentucky
Seventh Circuit:

       Chief Judge William J. Bauer
       Chief Judge Barbara B. Crabb,
              Western District of Wisconsin

Eighth Circuit:

       Chief Judge Richard S. Arnold
       Chief Judge Donald E. O'Brien,
              Northern District of Iowa

Ninth Circuit:

        Chief Judge J. Clifford Wallace
        Chief Judge William D. Browning,
               District of Arizona

Tenth Circuit:

        Chief Judge Monroe G. McKay
        Judge Richard F! Matsch,
               District of Colorado

Eleventh Circuit:

        Chief Judge Gerald B. Tjaflat
        Judge Anthony A. Alaimo,
               Southern District of Georgia

District of Columbia Circuit:

        Chief Judge Abner J. Mikva
        Chief Judge John Garrett Penn,
               District of Columbia

Federal Circuit:

        Chief Judge Helen W. Nies

Court of International Trade:

        Chief Judge Dominick L. DiCarlo
       Circuit Judge William W. Wilkins, Jr. and District Judges Vincent L.
Broderick, Gustave Diamond, Carolyn R. Dimmick, Lloyd D. George, Stanley
Marcus, and Robert M. Parker attended the Conference session. Circuit Executives
Vincent Flanagan, Steven Flanders, John I? Hehman, Samuel W. Phillips, Lydia
Comberrel, James A. Higgins, Collins T. Fitzpatrick, June L. Boadwine, Gregory B.
Walters, Eugene J. Murret, Norman E. Zoller, and Linda Finkelstein were also
present.

        Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Ranking Minority Member of the Committee on the
Judiciary, spoke to the Conference on matters pending in the Senate of interest to
the judiciary. Attorney General Janet Reno addressed the Conference on matters
of mutual interest to the Department of Justice and the Conference. Chairman
Valeri D. Zorkin of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation, spoke to the
Conference. Also in attendance for a portion of the session were Yuri V.
Kudriatsev, Vyacheslav A. Saveliev, Alexander I. Sychev, and Bakhtiyar R.
Tuzmukhamedov.

        L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did James E. Macklin, Jr.,
Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., General Counsel; Robert E. Feidler,
Legislative and Public Affairs Officer; Karen K. Siegel, Chief, Judicial Conference
Secretariat; Peter G. McCabe, Assistant Director for the Office of .ludges Programs;
Wendy Jennis, Deputy Chief, Judicial Conference Secretariat; and David A. Sellers,
Public Information Officer. Judge William W Schwarzer and Russell R. Wheeler,
Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also attended the
session of the Conference, as did Robb Jones, Administrative Assistant to the Chief
Justice, and Judicial Fellows Margaret Farrell, Susan Kuzma, Marjorie McCoy, and
Mark Rosenbaum.

                                    REPORTS

        Mr. Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office, reported to the
Conference on the judicial business of the courts and on matters relating to the
Administrative Office. Judge Schwarzer, Director of the Federal Judicial Center,
brought the Conference up-to-dateon FederalJudicial Center programs, and Judge
Wilkins, Chairman of the United States Sentencing Commission, spoke regarding
Commission activities.

                                   ELECTION

       The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the Federal
Judicial Center Bankruptcy Judge Elizabeth L. Perris of the District of Oregon, vice
Bankruptcy Judge Sidney Brooks, for a four-year term commencing March 28,
1993.
                         SENTENCING COMMISSION

        The Judicial Conference approved the following names for presentation to
the President for appointment, subject to the advice and consent of the Senate, to
fill Judge George MacKinnonls vacancy on the United States Sentencing
Commission: Circuit Judge Roger L. Wollman (Eighth Circuit), and District Judges
Maryanne Trump Barry (District of New Jersey), Avern Cohn (Eastern District of
Michigan), John C. Coughenour (WesternDistrict of Washington), William B. Enright
(Southern District of California), and Barbara J. Rothstein (Western District of
Washington). See also "Miscellaneous Actions," infra pp. 6-7.

       The JudicialConference also approved a recommendationof the Committee
on Criminal Law urging the President to appoint a federal judge as chair of the
United States Sentencing Commission upon vacancy of that position. See also
"Miscellaneous Actions," infra pp. 6-7.

       COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT FOR FEDERAL JUDGES

        The Judicial Conference agreed that in light of the President's one year
across-the-boardfreeze in federal salaries and Congress' elimination of the cost-of-
living salary adjustment for its members in 1994, the judiciary will not request a
cost-of-living adjustment in the salaries of federal judges for calendar year 1994.

                           EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
                       FISCAL YEAR 1992 HIRING FREEZE

        Because of deficiencies in the defender services appropriation in fiscal year
1992, the Executive Committee had placedcertain funds in reserve, including funds
in the personnel area, pending approval of a supplemental appropriation for FY
1992. This action resulted in afreeze on the hiring of new personnel in the courts.
In late September, the Executive Committee confirmed its previous decision to lift
the hiring freeze as of the date the supplemental appropriations bill was signed by
the President (September 23, 1992). At the same time, in anticipation of a severe
funding shortage for FY 1993, the Committee reimposed the hiring freeze effective
October 1, 1992, until a FY 1993 spending plan was approved.

                      FISCAL YEAR 1993 SPENDING PLAN

         Since the last Conference session, the Executive Committee devoted the
majority of its time to critical budgetary issues. The Committee was confronted with
fashioning a fiscal year 1993 spending plan for the judiciary's "Salaries and
Expenses" (court operations) account, which was funded by Congress at roughly
$120 million less than needed just to maintain end-of-year 1992 current services
levels, taking into account anticipated revenues from fees. To accomplish its task,
the Committee solicited the views of all judicial officers in the system on how
expenditures could be reduced. After considering suggestions received from
judges and court administrators, and responses to options presented to members
of the Judicial Conference and Conference committee chairs, the Committee made
the necessary cuts as follows: $22.5 million in automation systems and support;
$32.5 million in building alterationsandother space-related expenses; $35.8 million
in furniture, equipment and other operating expenses; $9 million in probation and
pretrial services; $3.6 million in travel; and $15.4 million in personnel.

                     INDEPENDENT COUNSEL LEGISLATION

         Draft legislation, "The Independent Counsel Reauthorization Act of 1993,"
would require the Administrative Office to provide administrative support and
guidance to each independent counsel. The Executive Committee, on behalf of the
Judicial Conference, resolved that the mission of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts and its component units is incompatible with responsibilities
for, or activities in support of, prosecutorialfunctions of government, such as those
of independent counsels. It further resolved that any such prosecutorial entity
should not rely on the Administrative Office or any of its component parts for
administrative functions, policy guidance, review, or any other ongoing or
intermittent support.

                                   RESOLUTION

        On behalf of the Judicial Conference, the Executive Committee adopted the
following resolution:

              The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizeswith
       appreciation, respect and admiration the

                   HONORABLE WIUIAM D. BROWNING

       Member of the Committee on Court and Judicial Security from 1987
       to 1990, and Chairman from 1990 to 1992.

                Judge Browning in his service on the Committee has played
       a vital role in the administration of the federal court system while
       performing his judicial duties as Chief Judge of the United States
       District Court for the District of Arizona. He has earned our deep
       respect and sincere gratitude for his innumerable contributions as
       a Member and as Chairman of the Committee on Court and Judicial
       Security. We acknowledge with appreciation his commitment,
       leadership and dedicated service to the Judicial Conference and the
       federal judiciary.
                    MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

The Executive Committee:

Deferred consideration for one year of a proposed merger between the
Court and Judicial Security and Space and Facilities Committees;

Deferred implementation for one year of a program allowing circuit judges
to sit on other appellate courts from time to time, on an exchange basis, as
a means of promoting education in court administration;

Agreed to an early release of the report of the Committee to Review the
Criminal Justice Act and the comments of the Defender Services Committee
concerning this report, in light of exceptional circumstances;

Rolled back the maximum amount authorized for reimbursement of judges'
itemized travel expenses to $250 per day;

Approved an interim policy on payment of relocation expenses, necessitated
by drastically reduced funding;

Agreed to raise the fees for admission to practice in a district court from
$20.00 to $50.00 and for duplicate admission certificates and certificates of
good standing from $5.00 to $15.00, provided that legislation is enacted to
permit the judiciary to retain the resulting increase in fees;

Agreed to pursue legislationto allow the judiciary's contributions to the Civil
Service Retirement Fund to be returned to the judiciary when bankruptcy
and magistrate judges for whom the benefit is ,paid elect to transfer out of
the Civil Service Retirement System;

Authorized funds to be spent on a judges' office automation training
program wherein a financial supplement for upgrading judges' hardware
and software is not included;

Agreed to withdraw the previously-approved request of the District of
Connecticut for 2 temporary judgeship (see JCUS-SEP 92, p. 70);

Raised no objections to a proposed memorandum to be sent by the chair
of the Judicial Branch Committee to all chief judges asking them to initiate
a program of courthouse visits for the newly-elected members of the 103rd
Congress;

Agreed that a model policy on searches and seizures proposed by the
Committee on Criminal Law should be submitted to the Judicial Conference
       -forapproval prior to its dissemination (see "Search and Seizure Policy," infra
        P. 13);

e      Respondingto Congressional interest inthe enactment of statutory authority
       for the waiver of filing fees and costs in bankruptcy cases, determined that
       if necessary, a pilot in forma pauperis project would be the preferable
       approach, in that it would enable the impact of such a procedure to be
       assessed prior to embarking on a nationwide program;

e      Discussed possible judicial officer appointments to the United States
       Sentencing Commission and agreed that the Sentencing Commission chair
       should be a judge (see also "Sentencing Commission," supra p. 4);

e      Reviewedthe jurisdictional statements of all Judicial Conferencecommittees
       and agreed to finalize revisions in April 1993; and

e      Authorized appointment of an additional magistratejudge position for San
       Diego, California and approved the position for accelerated funding in FY
       1993 (see also "Changes in Magistrate Judge Positions," infra-pp. 19-22).

            COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

            DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA PUBLIC DEFENDER SERVICE

         Under the District of Columbia Code (Title 1, Ch.27, 5 1-2707), the
Administrative Office is responsible for providing payroll and personnel support for
the District of Columbia Public Defender Service, which is not a federal defender
office and whose employees are employees of the District of Columbia, not the
federal government. Providingthis support is a burden on the Administrative Office,
as it is done without compensation and requires adherence to the rules and
regulations of the District of Columbia government, which are different from federal
and judiciary practices. Therefore, the Judicial Conference approved a
recommendation of the Committee on the Administrative Office that it seek
legislation to assign administrative support for the District of Columbia Defender
Service to the District of Columbiagovernment. The Administrative Office will work
with the D.C. Public Defender Service to ensure a smooth transition to a new
personnel and payroll support system.

          COMMITTEE ON AUTOMKTION AND TECHNOLOGY

                     LONG RANGE PLAN FOR AUTOMATION

       Section 612 of title 28 requires the Judicial Conference to approve and
submit to Congress annually a long range plan (and revisions thereto) for meeting
the automation needs of the judiciary. The plan is to be developed and revised
annually by the Director of the Administrative Office prior to Conference review.
Pursuant to that statute, the Conference approved the fiscal year 1993 update to
the Long Range Plan for Automation in the Federal Judiciary.

            COMMIITEE ON THE ADMlNlSTRATlON OF THE
                     BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM
                          CHANGES IN DUTY STATIONS

         Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 5 152(b)(l), the Judicial Conference is responsible
for determining the official duty stations of bankruptcy judges and their places of
holding court, after consultation by the Director of the Administrative Office with the
respective judicial councils. In light of the Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 1992
(Public Law 102-361) which authorized 35 additional bankruptcy judgeships in 27
districts (new appointments are pending funding), the Conference agreed with the
recommendationsof the BankruptcyCommittee and the judicial councils as follows:



                               NUMBER OF NEW                     OFFICIAL
  DISTRICT                       JUDGESHIPS                    DUTYSTATIONS(S)

Massachusetts                                                 Worcester
New Hampshire                                                 Manchester
Puerto Rico                                                   Hato Rey
Connecticut                                                   New Haven
New York, Southern                                            New York City (2)
Delaware                                                      Wilmington
New Jersey                                                    Trenton
Pennsylvania, Eastern                                         Philadelphia (2)
Maryland                                                      Rockville
North Carolina, Middle                                        Winston-Salem
South Carolina                                                Columbia
Virginia, Eastern                                             Norfolk
Texas, Northern                                               Fort Worth
Texas, Western                                                Austin
Tennessee, Eastern                                            Greeneville
Tennessee, Middle                                             Nashville
Tennessee, Western                                            Jackson
Illinois, Southern                                            East St. Louis
Arizona                                                       Phoenix (I), Tucson (1)
California, Central                                           Los Angeles (2)
Colorado                                                      Denver
Alabama, Northern                                             Birmingham
Florida, Middle                                                Orlando (2), Tampa (1),
                                                               Jacksonville (1)
Florida, Southern                                              Fort Lauderdale (I),
                                                               West Palm Beach (1)
Georgia, Northern                                              Atlanta (2)
Georgia, Middle
 and Southern                                                  Macon



  DISTRICT                 FORMER
                                DUTY STATION                       NEWDUTYSTATION

Texas, Western                  Austin                                 Wac0
California, Central             Los Angeles                            Santa Barbara
California, Central             Los Angeles                            San Bernardino
California, Central             San Bernardino                         Riverside (3)
California, Central             San Bernardino                         Santa Ana
Florida, Middle                 Orlando                                Tampa
Georgia, Northern               Atlanta                                Newnan
Georgia, Northern               Atlanta                                Rome
Illinois, Southern              East St. Louis                         Benton

                  RECALL OF RETIRED BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

         Section 375 of title 28 provides for the five-year recall of retired bankruptcy
and magistrate judges who meet age and service requirements. The Judicial
Conference is authorized to promulgate regulationsto implement the five-year recall
program. In light of concerns regarding (a) the feasibility of the judicial councils
certifying that "substantial service" will be performed by a retired judge for a five-
year period; (b) the possibility of a windfall for the recalled judges in that they
could earn full salary plus annuity enhancements without performing full-time
service; and (c) the fact that the existing ad hoc program for temporary recall (for
up to one year) and the three-year extended recall service regulations (JCUS-MAR
92, p. 16) call into question the need for a five-year recall program, the Judicial
Conference resolved that no funding will be made available to implement the five-
year recall provisions. See also "Recall of Retired Magistrate Judges," infra p. 19.

                        BANKRUPTCY CODE AMENDMENT

        The Judicial Conference approved for transmission to Congress an
amendment to 11 U.S.C. 5 362(h) which provides for the recovery of damages for
injuries due to willful violations of the automatic stay provided by law. The
amendment would clarify that relief under this provision is not limited to persons
and that sovereign immunity is not a defense to willful violations of the automatic
stay.
                                                         COMMllTEE ON THE BUDGET
         The Committee on the Budget reported on budgetary matters including the
fiscal year 1993 appropriation, the status of the fiscal year 1993 spending plan, and
the fiscal year 1993 supplemental appropriation request; the 1994 and 1995 budget
submissions; the status of budget decentralization; the Court Registry Investment
System (CRIS); and the proposed establishment of a subcommittee on fiscal
economy.

                                                      COMMllTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
        The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that it approved for
publication a final version of a "Compendium of Selected Opinions," which
summarizes in a single document selected published and unpublished opinions
rendered by the Committee, focusing primarily upon unpublished opinions from
1979 through 1992. It further reported that since its last report, it has issued 56
written advisory responses to written inquiries. The Chairman received and
responded to 46 telephonic inquiries. In addition, individual Committee members
responded to 107 inquiries from their colleagues.

                                       COMMllTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
                                             AND CASE MANAGEMENT
                                                                  PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

         Upon the request of the Southern District of New York and the Judicial
Council of the Second Circuit, and the recommendationof the Committee on Court
Administration and Case Management, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek
legislation to amend 28 U.S.C. 9 112(a) to establish the Middletown-Wallkill area of
Orange County, New York, "or such nearby location as may be deemed
appropriate," as a place of holding court in the Southern District of New York.

       At the request of the Northern District of Indiana and the Judicial Council for
the Seventh Circuit, the Judicial Conference approved the recommendation of the
Committee that Congress amend 28 U.S.C. 9 94(a)(3) as follows (language lined
through to be omitted; shaded language to be added):

       The klammwd;We$t&m
                       ..........................................Division comprises the counties of Benton,
       Carroll, Jasper, Lake, Newton, Porter, Tippecanoe, Warren, and
       White. ~0u.t-tfor the k4ammmd                               .,-.; ..,:.....-.. :;:jd$$$::::*z;:jQ.:.:
                                                                                                                    w@&@&a
                                                                                                               Division shall be held at
                                                                                                              .........
                             Lafayette ~                                   &$$&~                                     #& i~s                     f$zhR@z&@Em&$
                                                                                                                                                         $~@&~
                                                                   .....................:.:.: . , :.:.:.:.:.:.:........::::.:.:.:.:.:.x.: ................................................................................................
                                                                   ...................
                                                                   ...............
       CW@@.
                     ..\......................
         ..............
       :...........................................
          MISCELLANEOUS FEES - SEARCHES OF COURT RECORDS

        The miscellaneousfee schedules of the bankruptcy and district courts each
authorize a fee to be charged for a search of the records of the court; however, the
provisions differ in that the district court requires a request for certification of the
search before a fee may be charged. On recommendation of the Committee on
Court Administration and Case Management, which found no basis for the differing
search fee structures of the bankruptcy and district courts, the Judicial Conference
approved an amendment of the search fee provision of the schedule of fees for the
United States district courts which reads:

       For every search of the records of the district court conducted by
       the clerk of the district court or a deputy clerk, $15 per name or item
       searched.

         In response to concerns, a survey of current practices of bankruptcy and
district courts was conducted and confirmed widespread inconsistencies in the
application of the search fee. In order to provide more specific guidance to clerks,
the Conference approved proposed search fee guidelines which attempt to strike
a balance between the public's right of access to the dockets and the need of
clerks' offices for resources to carry out their support mission to judicial officers.
These guidelines will be appended to the miscellaneous fee schedules.

     MISCELLANEOUS FEES - ELECTRONIC ACCESS TO COURT RECORDS

        At its March 1990 session, the Judicial Conference amended the
miscellaneous fee schedules for the district and bankruptcy courts to include
charges for electronic access to court data, such as the Public Access to Court
Electronic Records (PACER) system (JCUS-MAR 90, p. 21). Under the Judiciary
Appropriations Act of 1991 (Public Law No. 101-515), fees for public access to
federal court information available in electronic form are deposited to the Judiciary
Automation Fund as reimbursement for expenses incurred in providing these
services. Federal agencies have been exempt from all district and bankruptcy court
fees, including fees for PACER, pursuant to an exception granted by the Judicial
Conference in the schedule of fees prescribed under 28 U.S.C. 99 1914 and
1930. However, because the judiciary can retain such fees to support PACER to
the benefit of both the courts and PACER users, the Judicial Conference:

1)     Amended the schedules promulgated under 28 U.S.C. 99 1914 and 1930
       to eliminate the exemption from fees for federal agencies for usage of
       electronic access to court data, effective October 1, 1993;

2)     Delegated to the Director of the Administrative Office the authority to set a
       fee for these services not to exceed the amount previously established by
       the Judicial Conference after consultation with and reasonable notice to
        affected parties and notice to the Executive Committee of the Judicial
        Conference;

3)     Amended the schedules promulgated under 28 U.S.C 99 1914 and 1930to
       eliminate the exemption for federal agencies from the fee for reproducing
       any court record or paper and the fee for performing a search of court
       records where electronic access is available, in order to encourage the use
       of electronic access both from remote locations and from public access
       terminals in clerks' offices, effective October 1, 1993; and

4)     Applied these actions to all federal agencies except those which receive
       funding from judiciary appropriations.

                          COURT-ANNEXEDARBITRATION

        The Judicial Improvements and Access to Justice Act of 1988 (Public Law
No. 100-702), which authorized the continuation of mandatory non-binding
arbitration programs piloted by the Judicial Conference in ten district courts and
permitted the designation of ten additional courts to adopt programs of voluntary
non-binding arbitration, includes a sunset date of five years after enactment, which
was on November 19, 1988.              The Judicial Conference approved the
recommendationof the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
that legislation be sought to continue authorization for the 20-district arbitration
program beyond the 1993 sunset date.

        The Committee also recommended that the Judicial Conference support
legislation to permit, but not require, all district courts to utilize mandatory or
voluntary arbitration programs. The Conference declined to approve this
recommendation with respect to mandatory programs, but did agree to seek
statutory authority for all federal district courts to have the discretion to utilize
voluntary arbitration programs.

                     VIDEO CONFERENCING PILOT PROGRAM

         The Judicial Conference approved a pilot program in the Eastern District of
North Carolina for the use of video conferencing technology to conduct
competency hearings between the court and the Federal Correctional Facility in
Butner, North Carolina. The court, which requested approval for the pilot in its
district, hopes that the use of a video conferencing system will improve security by
alleviating the need to transport prisoners to the federal courthouse.

        COMMIREE ON COURT AND JUDICIAL SECURITY
       The Committee on Court and Judicial Security reported that several of its
members had made presentationson security issues at meetings of judicial officers
and that such presentations are an important aspect of judicial security. The
Committee met with executives from the General Accounting Office and the United
States Marshals Service on security-related matters.

                      COMMllTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW

                             LONG RANGE PLANNING

      On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial
Conference agreed to renew efforts to:

1)       Reverse the trend of federal prosecution of what historically have been
         regarded as state crimes, while supporting other efforts to address those
         crimes at the state level;

2)       Reverse the trend of enacting mandatory minimum prison sentences; and

3)       Support incorporation by the United States Sentencing Commission of more
         flexibility in the sentencing guidelines.

                         SEARCH AND SEIZURE POLICY

        In response to a revision by the United States Parole Commission of its
long-standing policy of supporting only "plain view" searches to one supporting a
more rigorous search in certain circumstances, the Committee on Criminal Law
proposed Model Search and Seizure Guidelines which would guide probation
officers in applying for and conducting searches and seizures of persons on
probation and supervised release. The Judicial Conference approved distribution
of the Guidelines as suggested policy for probation officers.'

                          VIOLKI'IONS OF SUPERVISION

       Monograph 109, Supervision of Federal Offenders, published in loose-leaf
form, did not contain a chapter on noncompliant behavior in the original version.
On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial Conference
approved publication of Chapter V, "Managing Noncompliant Behavior."

                  COMMllTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
           FEDERAL DEFENDER ORGANIZA'I'ION CASE ASSIGNMENTS

     The Judicial Conference adopted the following resolution proposed by the
Committee on Defender Services:

     1
    The Parole Commission has adopted the search and seizure policy
recommended by the Committee and subsequently approved by the Conference.
               Recognizingthat federal defender organizationsconsistently
       furnish high quality representation to Criminal Justice Act (CJA)
       defendants and, overall, provide a cost-efficient alternative to such
       representation furnished by CJA panel attorneys, the Judicial
       Conference urges districts and circuits to take steps which will
       increase the number of cases assigned to federal defender
       organizations.

              In districts currently served by a defender organizationthese
       steps should include:

       1)      approval of additional assistant federal defender staff by the
               court of appeals in appropriate circumstances; and

       2)      review and adjustment of district appointment procedures.

               Those districts not currently served by a defender
       organization are urged to give consideration to the feasibility of
       establishing a district federal defender organization or joining with
       an adjacent district to establish a federal defender organization to
       serve both districts. But see "Committee to Review the Criminal
       Justice Act," infra at 23.

                   CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT COMPENSATION

         The Committee on Defender Services reported on complaints from some
panel attorneys regarding delays in the review of CJA vouchers for compensation
of attorneys and experts. To address these concerns, the Judicial Conference
endorsed a recommendation of the Committee on Defender Services that
paragraphs2.21,3.07,6.02,and 6.03 of the Guidelinesfor the Administration of the
Criminal Justice Act ("CJA Guidelines") be amended to provide that, absent
extraordinary circumstances,compensation vouchers should be acted upon within
30 days of submission. See also "Committee to Review the Criminal Justice Act,"
infra at 27.

         In order to assist courts in minimizing any delays, and to facilitate the
development of more accurate projections regarding defender services
appropriations expenditures, the Judicial Conference agreed to urge the circuit
judicial councils to prepare periodic reports listing all CJA compensation vouchers
which have been under review before judicial officers for more than 90 days. See
also "Committee to Review the Criminal Justice Act," infra at 27.
            COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
         The Committee on Federal-StateJurisdiction reported that it is examining
several issues affecting the federal courts and their importance in developing a long
range plan for the federal judiciary. Such issues include: federalization of
traditional state crimes and civil causes of action; collateral review of state court
decisions; matters regarding courts of appeals including federal appellate court
jurisdiction, determining appealability, and the determination as to which courts to
send appeals; the role of non-Article Ill judges; intercircuit conflicts; and the lack
of resources for state courts.

                COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of January 1993,
it had received 2,354 financial disclosure reports and certifications for the calendar
year 1991, including 1,036 reports and certifications from justices and Article Ill
judges, 278 from bankruptcy judges, 386 from magistrate judgesland 654 from
judicial employees.

             COMMITTEE ON IMTERClRCUlT ASSIGNMENTS
       The Committee on lntercircuit Assignments reported that during the period
July 1, 1992, through December 31, 1992, 115 intercircuit assignments were
recommended by the Committee and approved by the Chief Justice to be
undertaken by 78 justices and Article Ill judges.

                 COMMITTEE 014
                             ' T ~ JUDICIAL
                                    E       BRANCH
                   JUDICIAL SURVIVORS' ANlVUlTlES SYSTEM

         Recent legislative improvements to the Judicial Survivors' Annuities System
(JSAS) created an anomalous distinction with regard to JSAS contributions,
between a disabled judge who retires on grounds of permanent disability under 28
U.S.C. 9 372(a) and one who retires under 28 U.S.C. 5 371(b) but is prevented by
disability from carrying the requisite workload in a given year. Since this distinction
appears to serve no policy objective, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek to
include in any legislation making technical corrections to the Federal Courts
Administration Act of 1992 (Public Law No. 102-572), the requisite amendments to
permit all Article Ill judges who retire from regular active service under 28 U.S.C.
$5 371(b) or 372(a), and all judges of the Court of Federal Claims who retire from
office under 28 U.S.C. 5 178, to contribute to JSAS at the rate of 2.2 percent of
salary or annuity.
         In order to afford equal treatment under JSAS to deferred annuitants, the
Judicial Conference agreed to seek a technical correction to the Federal Courts
Administration Act of 1992 to provide a refund of JSAS contributions made by any
judicial official who dies, following retirement, without eligible survivors or before
JSAS benefits have vested.

                               JUDICIAL RETIREMENT

         The Judicial Conference agreed to seek to include in any legislation making
technical corrections to the Federal Courts Administration Act of 1992, or in any
other general "judicial improvements" legislation, the requisite amendments to
equalize the disability retirement benefits of territorial district judges with those of
bankruptcy judges, magistrate judges, and judges of the Court of Federal Claims,
and to provide annual cost-of-living adjustments in the annuities paid to all retired
territorial district judges.

                 COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                             ADDITIONAL JUDGESHIPS

         In response to a request from the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals for ten
additional judgeships, the Judicial Conference determined that, without regard to
the merits, it would defer consideration of the request until September 1993,
because of the potential impact on the federal judicial system of an expansion of
that magnitude. The Conference decided that the question of whether to limit the
size of the federal judiciary should be examined, and it referred this question to the
Long Range Planning Committee, in consultation with other committees as
appropriate, for study and report to the September 1993 Judicial Conference.

      CHAMBERS STAFF FOR MAGISTRATE AND BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

          In September 1991, the Judicial Conference authorized a circuit or district
judge to employ one additional law clerk in lieu of an authorized secretary, or vice
versa (JCUS-SEP 91, p. 66). A bankruptcy or magistratejudge is currently allowed
to employ one secretary and one law clerk (with the proviso that the ratio of law
 clerks to magistrate judges authorized in any district may not exceed one law clerk
 per full-time magistrate judge position). On the recommendation of the Committee
on Judicial Resources, the Judicial Conference approved an amendment to its
guidelines to permit bankruptcy and magistrate judges the flexibility to hire an
additional law clerk in lieu of an authorized secretary, or vice versa. A magistrate
judge may select this option only with the consent of the chief judge of the district.
                         SAVED GRADE AND SAVED PAY

        Previously, the Judicial Conference had revised the saved grade and saved
pay policy to include secretaries who accept a lower-graded position in the court
following the death of the judge for whom they worked (JCUS-MAR 92, p. 25). At
this session, the Conference approved the recommendation of the Judicial
Resources Committee to extend the saved grade and saved pay policy to provide
coverage to a judge's secretary where the secretary takes a lower-graded position
with the judiciary for reasons outside the secretary's control, such as the
resignation or retirement of the judge, the reduction of the judge's staff complement
as a result of taking senior status or stepping down from the office of chief judge,
or the completion of the term of a bankruptcy or magistrate judge who is not
reappointed.

                    MODEL ADVERSE ACTION PROCEDURE

        Section 3602(a) of title 18 specifies in part that a district court may, for
cause, remove a probation officer. While there is no requirement that procedures
be established in order to remove a probation officer, the "for cause" phrase
suggests that a probation officer is entitled to notice and an opportunity to be heard
before being discharged. In order to provide guidance on appropriate notice and
hearing rights, the Judicial Conference, on recommendation of the Committee on
Judicial Resources, approved the distribution of amodel adverse action procedure
for the removal of a probation officer.

                             SEVERANCE PAY POLICY

        The Administrative Office of the United States Courts Personnel Act of 1990
(Public Law No.101-474) amended 5 U.S.C. ยง 5595 to require the judiciary to
recognize an employee's years of service by providing severance pay upon the
employee's separation from court employment as a result of job abolishment.
Although the statute allows little discretion in the development or implementation
of a severance pay policy, in the limited areas where discretion is allowed, the
Judicial Resources Committee recommended the adoption of procedures embodied
in existing regulations applicable to executive branch agencies. The Judicial
Conference endorsed the Committee's recommendation.

                     DUAL COMPENSATION RESTRICTIONS

       Under 5 U.S.C. 9 5532, civil service retirees and some military retirees who
are reemployed in the federal civil service generally are not paid both their full
retirement annuities and the full salaries their positions would normally command.
As authorized by December 1991 amendments to the Federal Employees Pay
Comparability Act of 1990 (Public Law No. 101-509), the Judicial Resources
Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, procedures for
the Director of the Administrative Office to make exceptions to the dual
compensation restrictionsfor reemployed annuitants in exceptionalcircumstances
involving recruitment or retention of a uniquely qualified individual.

              EMPLOYEE RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT POLICY

        In September 1991, the Judicial Conference approved a limitation of the
reimbursement of employee relocation expenses to positions at JSP-12 and above,
and for heads of offices and divisions (JCUS-SEP 91, p. 66). At this session, the
Conference endorsed the Judicial Resources Committee's recommendation that
the current employee relocation reimbursement policy be revised to authorize the
Director of the Administrative Office to grant exceptions to the policy in cases
involving the opening or closing of divisional offices, and in cases where the
expansion or contraction of operations at a court site causes a change in the
number of personnel required to staff that office. The court seeking the exception
must demonstrate that it would be a prudent and cost-effective business practice
to grant the exception. But see "Miscellaneous Actions," supra pp. 6-7.

                        ADDITIONAL COURT REPORTERS

        The Judicial Conference approved three additionaltemporary court reporter
positions for funding in the fiscal year 1993: one each for the Southern District of
Florida, the Western District of Texas, and the District of Idaho.

                  SECOND CHIEF DEPUTY CLERK
                                        -
    BANKRUPTCY CLERK'S OFFICE CENTRAL DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

        Due to the size, rate of growth, and geographic distribution of the
bankruptcy clerk's office in the Central District of California,the Judicial Conference
approved the establishment of asecond chief deputy clerk position (JSP-16) in that
office.



       The Long Range Planning Committee reported that it had completed work
on a draft mission statement for the federal courts. The Committee received
updates or reports about several studies regarding long range planning issues,
including surveys of state and federal judges, areport from the Committee on Court
Administration and Case Management on matters involving federal court structure
and governance, and a retrospective analysis of the effect of federal legislation on
the workload of the United States courts.
                 COMMllTEE ON 'THE ADMINISTRATION
                 OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM
                    RECALL OF RETIRED MAGISTRATE JUDGES

         In March 1992, the Judicial Conference approved regulations for extended
service recall for bankruptcy judges pursuantto 28 U.S.C. 9 155(b) (JCUS-MAR 92,
p. 16). At this session, on recommendationof the Committee on the Administration
of the Magistrate Judges System, the Conference adopted Regulations of the
Judicial Conference of the United States Governing the Extended Service Recall of
Retired United States Magistrate Judges. Under the regulations, extended service
recall would be available to magistrate judges retiring at full annuity and would be
for a fixed period of more than one but not more than three years.

         Because of the existence of extended and ad hoc recall programs and in
light of concerns that it would not be feasible to draft regulations concerning the
certification of substantial service for a five-year period, the Magistrate Judges
Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference agreed, that no funding
would be made available to implement the five-year recall provisions of 28 U.S.C.
9 375 with respect to magistrate judges. See also "Recall of Retired Bankruptcy
Judges," supra p. 9.

     TEMPORARY EMERGENCY ASSIGNMENT OF MAGISTRATE JUDGES

        Under 28 U.S.C. 9 6360, a magistrate judge may be temporarily assigned
to another judicial district in emergency situations upon the concurrence of the
chief judges of the districts involved. The magistrate judge may perform any of the
duties specified in 99 636(a) and (b); however, through apparent inadvertence,
when the civil consent provisions in 9 636(c) were enacted, 9 636(9 was not
amended to authorize a temporarily assigned magistrate judge to handle civil
consent cases. In order to provide greater flexibility to a court confronted with an
emergency situation, the Judicial Conference approved the Magistrate Judges
Committee's recommendation that a technical amendment to 28 U.S.C. 9 6360 be
sought to authorize a temporarily-assigned magistrate judge to perform duties
specified in 9 636(c).

                 CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

        After consideration of the report of the Committee and the recommendations
of the Director of the Adrr~inistrativeOffice, the district courts, and the judicial
councils of the circuits, the Conference approved the following changes in salaries
and arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrate judge positions. Unless
otherwise indicated,these changes are to be effective when appropriatedfundsare
available.
New York, Northern

      Converted the part-time magistratejudge position at Watertown to full-time
      status.



New Jersey

1.    Made no change in the location, salary, or arrangements of the part-time
      magistrate judge position at Asbury Park; and

2.    Made no change in the location, salary, or arrangements of the part-time
      magistrate judge position at Atlantic City.

Pennsylvania, Western

1.    Increasedthe salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Johnstown
      from $3,000 per annum to $50,000 per annum; and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.



Texas, Northern

1.    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Dallas; and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.

Texas, Eastern

      Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Sherman to full-time
      status.
Tennessee, Eastern

       Authorized the full-time magistratejudge at Greeneville,Tennessee, to serve
       in the adjoining Western District of North Carolina in accordance with 28
       U.S.C. ยง 631(a).

Tennessee, Middle

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.



Illinois, Southern

       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at East St. Louis
       to full-time status.



Arkansas, Western

       Retained the part-time magistrate judge position at Harrison at the current
       salary level of $5,160 per annum.

                                  NINTHCIRCUIT

California, Southern

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at San D i e g ~ ; ~
       and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.




   ?his new full-time magistrate judge position is in addition to the new full-time
magistrate judge position at San Diego authorized on December 14, 1992, by the
Executive Committee and designated for acceleratedfunding effective June 1,1993
(see "Miscellaneous Actions," supra pp. 6-7).
Oregon

    1.    Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Medford to full-time
          status; and

2.        Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
          other magistrate judge positions in the district.

Washington, Eastern

          Authorized the full-time magistratejudge at Spokane, Washington, to serve
          in the adjoining District of Idaho in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 9 631(a).
1


                                    TENTHCIRCUIT

    Kansas

           Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
           magistrate judge positions in the district.

                 COMMllTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
                   CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS
        The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders
reported that legislation was enacted providing the Judicial Conference with a
review role over the disposition of conduct and disability complaints involving
judges of the United States Court of Veterans Appeals (Veterans Health Care Act
of 1992, Public Law No. 102-585). The enactment seems to meet satisfactorilythe
conditions set by the Conference in March 1992 for acceptance of such
responsibility (JCUS-MAR 92, p. 34), in that it does not impose on the Conference
any other administrative functions affecting this Article I court.

         COMMllTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

                                BANKRUPTCY RULES

          The Judicial Conference approved proposed changes to Official Forms 1,
4, 6E, 7, 9, 9E(Alt.), 9F(Alt.), and 10 submitted by the Committee on Rules of
    Practice and Procedure. These changes are technical and conforming in nature.
                 COMMllTEE ON SPACE AND FACII-ITIES
        The Committee on Space and Facilities is in the process of reviewing the
judiciary's furniture and furnishings policies and the existing parking policies. The
Committee reported that as of January 1993, 67 long range facilities plans have
been completed, pursuant to the directive of the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR
88, p. 39). It is anticipated that all remaining plans will be completed within 14
months.

        COMMITTEE TO REVIEW THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT
        The Judicial Improvements Act of 1990 (Public Law No. 101-650) required
the Judicial Conference to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the Criminal
Justice Act program and make a report to Congress. In 1991, the Chief Justice
established the nine-member Committee to Review the Criminal Justice Act (CJA
Review Committee), which made an interim report to the Judicial Conference in
September 1992 (JCUS-SEP 92, p.84). At that time, the Conference requested the
Defender Services Committee to undertake a detailed review of the interim report
and report back to the Conference in January 1993.

      After consideration of both the final report of the CJA Review Committee and
the Defender Services Committee's comments on that report, the Judicial
Conference took the actions outlined below regarding seven major
recommendation^;^

      The Conference supported the following recommendations of the CJA
Review Committee:

1)     A federal defender organization should be established in all districts, or
       combinationof districts, where such an organizationwould be cost-effective,
       where more than a specified number of appointments is made each year,
       or where the interests of effective representation otherwise require
       establishment of such an office (see also "Federal Defender Organization
       Case Assignments," supra pp. 13-14); and

2)     An experimental programshould be developed in which certain defendants
       would be offered a limited choice in the selection of counsel to be
       appointed to represent them.




     On March 22, 1993, the work of the CJA Review Committee having been
completed, the Executive Committee voted to discharge the Committee.


                                         23
     The Conference rejectedthe following recommendationsof the CJA Review
Committee:

1)     Funds appropriated to provide for services under the CJA should not be
       available to support other activities within the judicial branch;

2)     Appropriation requests to support the Criminal Justice Act should be
       presented directly to Congress;

3)     There should be established within the judicial branch a Center for Federal
       Criminal Defense Services;

4)     There should be establishedwithin each circuit one or more boards whose
       responsibilitywould be to supervise the CJA program and appointment and
       compensation of federal public and community defenders and panel
       attorneys within each district in the circuit; and

5)     Voucher approval and other panel attorney responsibilities should be vested
       in a local administrator.

        Subsequentto the Judicial Conference session, the Chief Justice appointed
a committee of Conference members to review the remainder of the CJA Review
Committee report and comments by the Defender Services Committee. The Report
on the Federal Defender Program drafted by this committee was approved by the
Conference through a mail ballot concluded on March 29, 1993, and was
transmitted to the Congress on March 31. In this report, the Conference made the
following recommendations (in addition to the two noted above):

       It is essential that the Congress provide full funding of the Criminal Justice
       Act to ensure that the protection guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment of the
       United States Constitution continues to be provided to the people of the
       United States into the 21st Century. Funding should be provided at a level
       sufficient to:

       -      ensure adequate funding of the existing federal defender
              organizations and death penalty resource program;
       -      pay fair and reasonable compensation to panel attorneys;
              establish afederal defender organization in each district where such
              organization is feasible;
              provide adequate administrative support for the CJA program;
              enable the Administrative Office to provide low-cost training
              programsfor all CJA panel attorneys, in conjunction with the Federal
              Judicial Center, the Sentencing Commission, and others; and
       -      implement procedures to ensure that counsel is provided to eligible
              persons as early in the initiation of proceedings as possible.
The CJA appropriation should remain as a separate account within the
judiciary's budget and should continue to be presented to the Congress
through the Judicial Conference of the United States.

Congress should provide sufficient funds in the CJA appropriationto enable
the Administrative Office to develop additional statistical and financial
information to document and evaluate fully the cost, quality, and
effectiveness of the CJA program.

Recognizing that federal defender organizations consistently furnish high
quality representation to CJA defendants and provide a cost-efficient
alternative to representation by CJA panel attorneys, the courts should take
steps to increase the number of cases assigned to federal defender
organizations.

       In districts currently served by a defender organization, these steps
should include:

1)     approval of additional assistant federal defender staff in appropriate
                                                            ,
       circumstances; and

2)     review and adjustment of district appointment procedures.


The Administrative Office should conduct a study to determine: (1) the
measures currently in place to obtain reimbursement of funds expended on
behalf of defendants who are financially able to retain private counsel; and
(2) what additional efforts should be employed to ensure that CJA funds
remain available to intended beneficiaries.

The Congress should authorize the judiciary to receive a fair share of the
total assets forfeited to the government by criminal defendants. At a
minimum, the CJA appropriation should be reimbursedfrom the Department
of Justice's assets forfeiture fund for those costs associated with providing
CJA representation for defendants whose assets have been seized by the
Department.

The judicial districts should be left free to choose either a Federal Public
Defender Organization or a Community Defender Organization to provide
defense services in the district, as the CJA now provides. The circuits
should be encouraged to involve volunteer lawyer committees in the
selection or reappointment of the federal public defender, as the CJA
Guidelines now provide.
The CJA should be amended to eliminate the requirement in 18 U.S.C.
9 3006A(g)(l) that a district have at least 200 CJA appointments annually
in order to qualify for a Federal Public Defender Organization or a
Community Defender Organization. See also JCUS-SEP 92, p. 66.

National recruiting and equal employment opportunity programs for the
defender system should continue to be encouraged and facilitated. The
Defender Services Committee should continue to review emptoyment
policies and make appropriate recommendationsto the Judicial Conference
regarding EEO program development, implementation, and compliance.

The Defender Services Committee should develop an EEO program for the
panel attorney program.

The Administrative Office, working with representatives of federal defender
organizations, should develop evaluation procedures to monitor attorney
and staff performance in these organizations.

The Administrative Office, working with representatives of federal defender
organizations should develop standards and evaluation procedures
regarding the management of defender organizations. Standards and
proceduresshould also be developedfor the managementof panel attorney
operations.

The Defender Services Committee should study whether specific
procedures and clearly defined standards should be developed regarding
the reappointment and removal of federal public defenders.

There is no need to amend the CJA with regard to the salaries of federal
public defenders and their staffs. The Congress, however, should fund the
CJA appropriationat a level sufficient to adjust the salaries of the personnel
of federal defender offices to a level equal to comparable positions in the
United States attorneys' offices.

'The Congress should provide full funding for the death penalty resource
center program.

Only minimal eligibility standardsfor panel attorneysshould be promulgated
nationally. Individual district plans should take into account the prevailing
local conditions most likely to produce qualified panel members.

Congress should fund the CJA appropriationat a level sufficient to allow the
Administrative Office to provide low-cost training programs for CJA panel
attorneys, in conjunction with the Federal Judicial Center, the Sentencing
Commission, the federal defenders, and others.
In those districts where the establishment of afederal defender organization
would not be cost-effective, where there are too few CJA appointments, or
where the interests of effective representation do not require the
establishment of such an organization, the courts should establish a panel
attorney support office.

The courts should develop performance standards for panel attorneys and
monitor their performance.

'The Congress should provide sufficient funds in the CJA appropriation to
 allow the Judicial Conference to set compensation rates for CJA panel
 attorneys at a level that includes reasonable office overhead and fair
 compensation, plus appropriate cost-of-living adjustments.

18 U.S.C. 5 3006A(d)(2) should be amended to authorize the Judicial
Conference to establish and modify all dollar limitations on compensation
under the CJA.

The CJA Guidelines should be amended to require compensation for the
time spent by CJA panel attorneys in necessary and reasonable travel.

The CJA should be amendedto authorize payment, at reduced hourly rates,
of compensationto paralegalsand law students who assist panel attorneys
in CJA representations.

The CJA Guidelines should be amended to provide that, absent
extraordinary circumstan6es1 judges should act on vouchers for
compensation of panel attorneys and other service providers in CJA cases
within 30 days of submission.        See also "Criminal Justice Act
Compensation," supra p. 14.

The judicial councils of the circuits should prepare periodic reports listing
all CJA compensation vouchers that have been under review for more than
90 days. The chief judge of the circuit, or the chief judge's designee,
should intervene and take appropriate action if a voucher has not been
acted upon within 90 days of submission. See also "Criminal Justice Act
Compensation," supra p. 14.

Until such time as the Congress appropriates sufficient funds to allow the
payment of compensation rates to CJA attorneys that cover reasonable
office overhead, panel attorneys should be reimbursed or indemnified for
civil malpractice and related actions arising from their CJA services.
Congress should fund the CJA appropriation at a level sufficient to allow
districtsto implement proceduresthat ensure that representationis provided
to eligible persons as early in the initiation of proceedings as possible.

18 U.S.C. 9 4285 should be amended to give the presiding judge in a case
discretion in appropriate circumstances to order that funds be provided to
CJA eligible persons for travel to and from court proceedings and related
consultations and for subsistence during court and related proceedings.

A proposal that would have required the prosecution to provide copies of
discoverable materials to the defense and allocate the costs of duplication
should be referred to the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure,
for consideration in accordance with the Rules Enabling Act.

The Defender Services Committee should study the advisability of legislation
to transfer payment of the reimbursement of defense fact witnesses from the
Department of Justice to the CJA appropriation.

The judiciary should arrange for a comprehensive, impartial review of the
CJA program every seven years.

 AD HOC COMMITTEE ON GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE

       The Judicial Conference adopted the following resolution:

        After considering the report and recommendationsof the Ad
Hoc Committee on Gender-Based Violence, and as a result of the
dialogue the Ad Hoc Committee has undertaken with the sponsors
of the proposed Violence Against Women Act of 1991 (S. 15, 102d
Congress) since the Judicial Conference adopted its resolution
about the proposed 1991 Act (JCUS-SEP 91, pp 57-58), the
Conference takes no position on specific provisions of the proposed
Violence Against Women Act of 1993 (S.ll, 103d Congress). The
Conference reiterates its concerns expressed in its prior resolution
and its general concerns about the trend toward federalization of
state law crimes and causes of action.

         At the same time, the Conference believes that the provision
of Title V of S. 11, encouraging circuit judicial councils to conduct
studies with respect to gender bias in their respective circuits, has
great merit and the Conference endorses that specific provision.
        All of the foregoing recommendations which require the expenditure of
funds for implementation were approved by the Conference subject to the
availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the Conference might
establish for the use of available resources.

                  RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

        The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters considered at
this session where necessary for legislative or administrative action.




                                               r+
                                          bhL?@?p7
                                           Chief Justice of the United St tes



June 14,1993
                                           Presiding
                                                                       L)
