September 20,1994

           The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in
    Washington, D.C., on September 20,1994, pursuant to the call of the Chief
    Justice of the United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice
    presided, and the following members of the Conference were present:

           First Circuit:

                  Chief Judge Juan R. Torruella
                  Judge Francis J. Boyle,
                         District of Rhode Island

           Second Circuit:

                  Chief Judge Jon 0.Newman
                  Judge Charles L. Brieant,
                         Southern District of New York

           Third Circuit:

                  Chief Judge Dolores K. Sloviter
                  Chief Judge John E Gerry,
                         District of New Jersey

           Fourth Circuit:

                  Chief Judge Sam J. Ervin, III
                  Judge W Earl Britt,
                         Eastern District of North Carolina

           Fifth Circuit:

                  Chief Judge Henry A. Politz
                  Chief Judge Morey L. Sear,
                         Eastern District of Louisiana
Judicial Conference of the United State8


                   Sixth Circuit:

                             Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt
                             Chief Judge Thomas D. Lambros,
                                    Northern District of Ohio

                   Seventh Circuit:

                             Chief Judge Richard A. Posner
                             Chief Judge Barbara B. Crabb,
                                    Western District of Wisconsin

                    Eighth Circuit:

                             Chief Judge Richard S. Arnold
                             Judge Donald E. O'Brien,
                                    Northern District of Iowa

                    Ninth Circuit:

                              Chief Judge J. Clifford Wallace
                              Chief Judge William Matthew Byrne, Jr.,
                                     Central District of California

                    Tenth Circuit:

                              Chief Judge Stephanie K. Seymour
                              Chief Judge Richard E Matsch,
                                     District of Colorado

                    Eleventh Circuit:

                              Chief Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat
                              Judge William Terrell Hodges,
                                     Middle District of Florida

                    District of Columbia Circuit:

                              Chief Judge Harry ' I!Edwards
                              Chief Judge John Garrett Penn,
                                     District of Columbia
       Federal Circuit

              Chief Judge Glenn L. Archer, Jr.

       Court of International Trade:

              Chief Judge Dominick L. DiCarlo

       Circuit Judge William W. Wilkins, Jr., and District Judges Maryanne
Trump Barry, Carolyn Dimmick, Paul A. Magnuson, Stanley Marcus, Michael
M. Mihm, Alicemarie H. Stotler, Ann C. Williams, and Rya Zobel attended
the Conference session. Circuit Executives Vincent Flanagan, Steven
Flanders, Toby Slawsky, Samuel W. Phillips, Lydia Comberrel, James k
Higgins, Collins '
                 I!Fitzpatrick, June L. Boadwine, Gregory B. Walters,
Robert L. Hoecker, Norman E. Zoller, and Linda Ferren were also present.

       Senators Charles E. Grassley and Orrin Hatch, and Representatives
Jack E. Brooks and William J. Hughes spoke to the Conference on matters
pending in Congress of interest to the judiciary.

        L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence A. Lee,
Jr., Associate Director for Management and Operations; William R. Burchill,
Jr., Associate Director and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel, Assistant
Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Arthur E. White, Acting
Assistant Director, Legislative and Public Affairs; Wendy Jennis, Deputy
Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; and David A.
Sellers, Public Information Officer. Judge William W Schwarzer and Russell
R. Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also
attended the session of the Conference, as did Harvey Rishikof,
Administrative Assistant t o the Chief Justice, Richard Schickele, Supreme
Court Staff Counsel, and Barbara Perry, Bob Deyling and Sarah Wilson,
Judicial Fellows.




       Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of
the courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office. Judge
Schwarzer spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs
and Judge Wilkins, Chairman of the United States Sentencing Commission,
reported on Sentencing Commission activities.
Judicial Confernnee of the United Stake




                 To assist in the judiciary's efforts to equalize staffing levels among
         court units, the Judicial Resources Committee proposed the use of voluntary
         separation incentive payments (known as "buyouts"), which were authorized
         by the Federal Workforce Restructuring Act of 1994 (Public Law No. 103-
         226). The.Executive Committee approved a buyout plan which allowed, in
         fiscal year 1994, the use of voluntary separation incentive payments in
         clerks', probation, and pretrial services offices that were over their respective
         staffing equalization limits. The Executive Committee placed a cap of $2.4
         million on the program (see also "Stffing Equalization," i n h p. 60).




                 In April 1994, the Social Security Administration (SSA) announced its
         intention to streamline the processing of social security disability claims and
         sought public comments on its proposal. The new procedures would
         significantly alter the administrative appeals process. In particular, the
         proposal would eliminate the requirement that a dissatisfied claimant must
         request SSA Appeals Council review before seeking judicial review. Instead,
         the Appeals Council would be authorized to seek systematically the remand
         of cases filed in U. S. district court for the purpose of reviewing the
         administrative law judge's decision. This proposed role for the Appeals
         Council creates jurisdictional problems and has significant caseload
         ramifications. On recommendation of the Committee on Federal-State
         Jurisdiction, concurred in by the Committee on Court Administration and
         Case Management, the Executive Committee agreed to communicate to the
         Social Security Administration on behalf of the Judicial Conference its
         serious concerns regarding the restructuring of the Appeals Council.




                 Under the current policy governing reimbursement of relocation
         expenses, relocation benefits are limited to overseas law clerks and to
         situations where a court has no option for stffing a position except to order
         the-relocation of one of its employees and the relocation has been determined
         to be in the "interest of the government." Because of a significant increase in
         claims for relocation reimbursement, the Executive Committee instituted a
                                                                  September 20,1094


two-lwel court approval proceas for reimbursement of court-ordered
relocations. First, a chief judge must certify that the relocation is in the
interest of the government, as defined by the current policies. Second, the
circuit judicial council will review the certification and approve or disapprove
it based on the needs of the judiciary in light of the estimated costs to be
incurred. The Committee also approved the transfer of $600,000 from the
fiscal year 1994 reserve to fund the additional costs of relocation benefits for
the remainder of the year.

       In addition, the Executive Committee reviewed a request for
reimbursement of moving expenses from a magistrate judge who will be
relocating upon his appointment to the district court bench. The Committee
took no action on the request pending review by the Judicial Council of the
Eighth Circuit.




      On behalf of the Judicial Conference, the Executive Committee
adopted the following resolution honoring its esteemed outgoing Chair:

             The Judicial Conference of the United States at its
       September 1994 session in Washington, D.C., hereby recognizes
       the Honorable

                              JOHN E GERlEtY
        Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the District
       of New Jersey and Chairman of the Executive Committee of
       the Judicial Conference of the United Statea, for his numerous
       contributions to the federal judiciary and the administration of
       justice.

              In 1990, after having served more than one year on the
       Judicial Conference Committee on the Administrative Office,
       Chief Judge Gerry was elected by the judges of the Third
       Circuit to serve a three-year term as district judge
       representative to the Judicial Conference. His level-headed
       manner and insight earned him the respect of other
       Conference members and the confidence of Chief Justice
       Rehnquist who, in January 1991, appointed Judge Gerry to
       serve on the Conference's Executive Committee. One year
Judicial Confiremeof the United States


                  later, further recognizing his outstanding leadership qualities,
                  the Chief Justice selected Judge Gerry to be Chairman of the
                                         --
                  Executive Committee the first district judge chosen for this
                  significant position. The Third Circuit subsequently elected
                  him to an unprecedented second term as that Circuit's district
                  judge representative to the Conference. Since 1991, Judge
                  Gerry has also been serving on the Ad Hoc Committee on
                  Gender-Based Violence.

                         Judge Gerry's decision to step down as Executive
                  Committee Chairman and district judge representative to the
                  Judicial Conference from the Third Circuit, has been received
                  with universal disappointment. We will miss his leadership:
                  Presiding in the Chief Justice's absence, Judge Gerry infused
                  Conference sessions with his wisdom and common sense, his
                  commitment to the judicial system as a whole, and of course,
                  his wit.

                          The members of the Executive Committee, in particular,
                  will feel the void created by Judge Gerry's absence. His
                  sensitivity, practicality, patience, and good humor created an
                  atmosphere favoring consensus and cooperation. As a result,
                  the Committee was both cohesive and productive. k i l i t a t e d
                  greatly by the keen intellect and objectivity of its Chairman,
                  the Executive Committee was able to tackle critical, difficult,
                  and often complex matters, most notably, fashioning judiciary
                  spending plans during times of severe fiscal constraints and
                  promoting enhanced communications among the three
                  branches of government.

                                                                   --
                         Judge Gerry is an exceptional individual one of a
                  kind -- and he has significantly enriched us by his presence.
                  While we will miss his wise counsel at Conference and
                  Executive Committee sessions, we look forward to working
                  with him in the future on judicial administration matters and
                  to our continued friendships with him and his wife, Jean, in
                  the years to come.



               On recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Judicial
         Conference adopted the following resolution in recognition of the substantial
                                                               September B,1904


contributions made by the Conference Committee chairs who completed their
terms of service on October 1,1994:

                              RESOLUTION

              The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
      with appreciation, respect and admiration the following judicial
      officers:

                         THOMAS E JACKSON
                  Committee on the Administrative Office

                              RYA W. ZOBEL
                Committee on Automation and Technology

                           THOMAS E HOGAN
                  Committee on Intercircuit Assignments

                          DEANELL R.I'ACHA
                    Committee on the Judicial Branch

                         C A R O M R.DIMlVLICK
                     Committee on Judicial Resources

                         LEVIN H. CAMPBELL
              Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct
                         and Disability Orders

             Appointed as committee chairmen by Chief Justice
      Rehnquist, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role in
      the administration of the federal court system. These judgea
      served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference
      committees while, at the same time, continuing to perform in
      their regular capacities as judges in their own courts. They
      have set a standard of skilled leadership and earned our deep
      respect and sincere gratitude for their innumerable
      contributions. We acknowledge with appreciation their
      commitment and dedicated service to the Judicial Conference
      and to the entire federal judiciary.
Judicial Confireme of tha United Statea




                   The Executive Committee:

                  Agreed not to oppose retroactivity of "safety valves" included in
                  'pending crime legislation to ameliorate some of the harshest results of
                   mandatory minimum sentences;

                   Approved a request of the Chairman of the Long Range Planning
                   Committee to distribute publicly a draft of the long range plan prior
                   to its consideration by the Judicial Conference;

                   Referred to the International Judicial Relations Committee a
                   suggestion that interaction among the judiciaries of the United States,
                   Mexico, and Canada might be beneficial, in light of the North
                   American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA);

                   Approved a statement of "Cooperation, Assistance, and Coordination"
                   between the federal judiciary and the American Bar Association;

                   Agreed that the Judicial Conference would co-sponsor a National
                   Conference on Court Management of Mass Tort Cases to be held in
                   November 1994 and funded by the State Justice Institute;

                   Declined to grant an exception to a longatanding Conference policy
                   disapproving the practice of federal judgea traveling abroad to take
                   testimony or depositions in criminal cases before them;

                   Concurred in the Judicial Branch Committee's recommendation to
                   leave to the discretion of the individual courts whether to release
                  judges' travel vouchers to the public upon request;

                   Ratified the decision of the Director of the Administrative Office to
                   reprogram $6.7 million in fiscal year 1994 automation funds to be
                   used for the Data Communications Network;

                  Approved a twelve-month waiver for Southeast flood victims of all
                  miscellaneous bankruptcy fees associated with obtaining copies of
                  discharge orders and other documents required by the Federal
                  Emergency Management Administration (FEW) in applying for
                  emergency aid. The Committee also requested the Court
                                                                September 20,1904


       Administration and Case Management Committee to study whether
       the Conference should adopt a general policy on waiver of
       administrative fees where a natural disaster occurs and F%MA is
       involved;

       Approved revisions to the jurisdictional statements of the Bankruptcy
       and Intercircuit Assignments Committees to clarify the roles of the
       Committees with respect to the intercircuit assignment of bankruptcy
       judges;

       Approved a request of the Bankruptcy Committee to authorize nine,
       rather than eight, temporary positions (with no increased funding) to
       assist the bankruptcy courts participating in the in formu pauperis
       pilot study (see JCUS-MAR 94, p. 11). The Committee also approved
       the reprogramming of $85,638 in fiscal year 1994, so that the
       temporary positions could be filled prior to October 1,1994; and

       Continued efforts to enhance communication with the other branches
       of government, including participation in quarterly meetings with the
       Attorney General of the United States, and agreed that the Chair
       should appoint an ad hoc subcommittee to propose ideas for
       improving the coordination of the judiciary's contacts with Congress.




        The Committee on the Administrative Office considered a number of
topics including Administrative Office support for independent counsels and
the District of Columbia.Public Defender Service; the Court Personnel
System (CPS) and impact of its implementation on the Administrative Office;
legislative activities; Administrative Office organizational changes; current
and future budgets of the judiciary and the Administrative Office; employee
payment adjustments issues; general financial management issues; the state
of automation; Administrative Office goals and objectives; and 'evaluation and
assessment activities. In addition, the Committee resolved to oppose the
pursuit of legislative change regarding the authority of the Administrative
Office Director to grant employmentcost-index (ECI) increases to
Administrative Office employees.
Judicial Confimnceof the United Stat-


COMMX'ITEE
         ON AUTOMATION
AND TECHNOLOGY


                The Automation and Technology Committee determined that there
         was a need for the judiciary to reassess business methods used by the courts
         so that procedure. being automated would be effective and efficient. It found
         that the need for "reengineering" of work processes or court functions cuts
         across all organizational boundaries. Therefore, it recommended that the
         Chief Justice appoint a new, non-technical ad hoe committee of the Judicial
         Conference to study work processes of the courts with a goal of making
         fundamental changes in processes and to make recommendations about how
         new technology techniques can be applied to make those changes successful.
         The Judicial Conference voted to recommit this recommendation to the
         Committee.




                 The Jury Modernization Project will provide a modularly-designed
         automated jury system with components that can be customized, created, or
         replaced at the local level. Courts may determine locally how much of the
         system to utilize. O.n recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
         Conference approved a policy that any court electing not to deploy the Jury
         Modernization System in whole or in part be provided with funding
         comparable to that provided to equivalently-sized courts using the system
         (see also "Juror Qualification Form," infnt pp. 49-50).


COMM~TTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE BANKRUPTCYSYSTEM



                  Beginning in 1994, the Conference is required by 28 U.S.C.
         § 1526)(3) to conduct a comprehensive review of all judicial districts every
         two years to assess the continuing need for bankruptcy judgeships in each
         district and to make recommendations to the Congress for the elimination of
         certain positions. Utilizing the Judicial Conference-approved weighted
         caseload formula, the Bankruptcy Committee examined the needs of every
                                                                September 20, 1904


district. It also conducted more extensive studies and on-site surveys in five
districts. On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, the Conference
determined to recommend to Congress that no bankruptcy judgeship
positions be statutorily eliminated. In addition, the Conference agreed to
advise the appropriate judicial councils that if a vacancy were to occur by
reason of resignation, retirement, removal, or death in the districts of South
Dakota, Alaska, or Maine, the Eastern District of Wisconsin, or the Western
District of Kentucky, the council should consider deferring the filling of the
position, particularly if such action would result in a weighted caseload per
judge of fewer than 1,000 hours.




ALTERNATIVE     BUDGET                    YEAR 1996
                     REQUEST FOR THE FISCAL

        The Judicial Conference approved an alternative, or lower, budget
request for the fiscal year 1996, subject to amendments necessary as a result
of (a) new legislation, (b) actions of the Judicial Conference, or (c) other
reasons the Director of the Administrative Office considers necessary and
appropriate.




        The new Court Personnel System (CPS) is scheduled to be
implemented in selected courts beginning in March, 1995 (see JCUS-SEP 93,
pp. 49-50). Under CPS, cost control for supporting personnel salaries will no
longer be accomplished by the Administrative Office's regulation of the
number of positions authorized for a court unit and by its central
management of the classification process. Rather, salary controls will be
based on the distribution to court units of two-year funding ceilings within
which to pay for all supporting personnel. On recommendation of the
Budget Committee in coordination with the Judicial Resources Committee,
the Judicial Conference adopted the Cost Control Monitoring System (CCMS)
as a new system for the allotment of personnel compensation funds under
budget decentralization. The Conference also approved the implementation
of the CCMS in fiscal years 1995 and 1996 in courts that have been selected
to begin implementation of the CPS in fiscal years 1995 and 1996,
respectively.
Judicial Cknference of the United StcJ.88




                 The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last
          report to the Judicial Conference, it received 47 new written inquiries
          (including one request for reconsideration) and issued 40 written advisory
          responses. The average response time was 21 days. The Chairman received
          and responded to 48 telephonic inquiries. In addition, individual Committee
          members responded to 72 inquiries from their colleagues.




                  The Judicial Conference approved the recommendations of the
          Committee to revise the Ethics Reform Act gift regulations. The principal
          substantive changes include the following: (1) definition of the term "giftHin
          a new section 3; (2) incorporation in a new section 4 of the existing statutory
          prohibition on solicitation of gifts; (3) clarification of the reach of sections
          4(b) and 5(b) (formerly 3(c) and 3(a)(2)); (4) authorization in a new section
          5(h) of the acceptance of de minimis gifts by persons other than judges and
          their personal staffs; (5) revision of section 6 (formerly 3(b)) prohibiting the
          acceptance of gifts in violation of other statutes and regulations, or where
          reasonable persons would believe that the public office is being used for
          private gain; and (6) description in a new section 9 of procedures for the
          return or disposal of gifts that may not properly be accepted.

                 Upon recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
          approved revisions to the Ethics Reform Act outside employment regulations,
          to incorporate useful provisions from the Executive Branch regulations and
          to make technical amendments designed to clarify the application of the
          regulations.


COMMITTEEON COURTADMINISTRATION
AND CASEMANAGEMENT



                The Judicial Conference considered a report and recommendation of
          the Court Administration and Case Management Committee to authorize the
photographing, recording, and broadcasting of civil proceedings in federal
trial and appellate courts. The Committee's report included an evaluation
conducted by the Federal Judicial Center of a three-year pilot project in six
district and two appellate courts, as well as an analysis of studies conducted
in state courts. Based upon the data presented, a majority of the Conference
concluded that the intimidating effect of cameras on some witnesses and
jurors was cause for concern, and the Conference declined to approve the
Committee's recommendation to expand camera coverage in civil proceedings.
In light of this action, additional Committee recommendations relating to
cameras in the courtroom in civil cases were determined to be moot. No
action was taken with regard to the ongoing pilot program, which is
scheduled to sunset on December 31,1994 (see JCUS-MAR 94, p. 15). See
also "Criminal Rules," infra p. 67.


MISCELLANEOUS FEE SCHEDULES

       In September 1993, the Judicial Conference approved an amendment
to the miscellaneous fee schedule promulgated under 28 U.S.C. § 1913 to
provide a fee for electronic access to court data for the appellate courts, but
reserved for future consideration the issue of whether to extend the fee to
electronic access to slip opinions (JCUS-SEP 93, pp. 44-45). The Court
Administration and Case Management Committee recommended that the
Judicial Conference authorize collection of a fee for electronic access to slip
opinions by amending the fee schedule to delete the sentence, "No such fee
shall be charged for usage of ACES/EDOS." The Judicial Conference
approved the amendment, which makes no change in the provision allowing
courts to exempt, for good cause, persons or classes of persons from the fees.

         In March 1993, the Judicial Conference eliminated the traditional
 federal agencies' exemption from court fees for electronic access to court data
and, in limited circumstances, for reproducing court records and conducting
searches of court records (JCUS-MAR 93, p. 11). Federal agencies funded
from judiciary appropriations continue to be exempted from fees. On
recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and Case
Management, the Conference agreed to a technical amendment of the
miscellaneous fee schedules promulgated under 28 U.S.C. §O 1913, 1914,
 1926, and 1930, to clarifj. that government programs funded from the federal
judiciary's appropriations, as well as government agencies so funded, were
exempt from fees. The amendment reads as follows (new language is in
italics):
Judicial Confireme of the United States


                   No fees under this schedule shall be charged to federal
                   agencies or programs which are funded from judiciary
                   appropriations, including, but not limited to, agencies,
                   organizations, and individualsproviding services authorized by
                   the Criminal Justice Act, 18 U.S.C. § 3006A and Bankruptcy
                   Administratorprogrum8.'




                 Recognizing that the work of the pro se law clerks is legal in nature
         and that the pro se law clerk serves the entire court as a legal expert in
         prisoner cases, the Judicial Conference approved in principle a Court
         Administration and Case Management Committee recommendation that the
         pro se law clerk program no longer be a component of the clerk's office. The
         chief judge of each district will appoint and supervise pro se law clerks, under
         the authority of 28 U.S.C. § 752, and will have the discretion to delegate this
         authority to another judicial officer or to the clerk of court, as appropriate
         for the court. Notwithstanding its approval of the new pro se law clerk
         policy in concept, the Conference, on recommendation of the Committee,
         referred specific issues raised by the implementation of this proposal to the
         Judicial Resources Committee for its consideration and subsequent
         Conference action, as appropriate. Implementation of this proposal will be
         deferred pending consideration of these issues by the Judicial Resources
         Committee.




                 On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
         authorized the bankruptcy court in the Western District of Texas to conduct
         a six-to twelve-month video-conferencing pilot program, subject to the
         availability of funds. The program offers an opportunity to evaluate the use
         of video-conferencing to conduct bankruptcy proceedings between the
         district's Austin and Midland locations.




              The phrase "and Bankruptcy Administrator programs" will be omitted
         from the amendment to the miscellaneous fee schedule promulgated under
         28 U.S.C. § 1950 because that schedule already exempts bankruptcy
         administrators from all feee.
                                                                  September 20,1094




         Realtime reporting technologies allow the stenotype record to be
electronically transcribed in the courtroom using software that translates the
shorthand instantaneously and displays it on a monitor in front of the
reporter, judge, and attorneys. The Judicial Conference, on recommendation
of the Committee, endorsed the use of realtime reporting technologies by
official court reporters in the district courts2 to the extent that finding is
available to support their use.

         Implementation issues remain, and the Judicial Conference requested
the Committee on Judicial Resources to consider (1)developing qualification
criteria for official court reporters who have the skill to stenotype realtime or
operate a computer-integrated courtroom; (2) developing salary incentives for
official court reporters who have the skill to stenotype realtime and operate
computer-integrated courtroom systems; and (3) examining whether changes
to the categories and costs of transcript page rates are necessary to reflect
current services available with the use of realtime and computer-integrated
courtroom technologies. In addition, the Conference requested that the
Committee on Automation and Technology consider developing standards
(1)for software and hardware that may be used by official court reporters in
a computer-integrated courtroom; and (2) for the management of computer
systems and information within the courtroom.




       The new Jury Modernization Project, implementation of which is
expected in fiscal year 1997, involves the establishment of a nationwide
contract for vendor services to provide master wheel creation and scannable
qualification questionnaire processing (see also "Jury Modernization Project,"
supra p. 44). The new system includes the development of a new optical
scanning juror qualification questionnaire form. Section 1869(h) of title 28
requires the Judicial Conference to approvejuror qualification forms
prescribed by the Administrative Office. On recommendation of the
Committee, the Judicial Conference approved a scannable juror qualification

                           -




      At its March 1994 session, the Judicial Conference disapproved the use
of realtime reporting systems in bankruptcy courts because they did not
appear to be cost effective (JCUS-MAR 94, p. 16).
Judicial Conference of the United States


         questionnaire form for courts electing to use the system.provided by the Jury
         Modernization Project.




                 The Judicial Conference approved a Committee recommendation that
         it seek an amendment to the Court Interpreters Act, 28 U.S.C. O 1827, to
         remove the prohibition on the use of appropriated funds to provide sign
         language interpreters to hearing-impaired parties and witnesses in
         proceedings not initiated by the United States. Such an amendment would
         provide judicial officers the discretion to decide what services to provide to
         hearing-impaired parties and witnesses, subject to the availability of funds.




                The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it had discussed the
         potential impact on the federal courts of the provisions of the Violent Crime
         Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 pending before the Congress. In
         addition, the Committee was briefed on the following: the implementation of
         the enhanced supervision of offenders program, policies for the management
         of confidential informants, a review of the Substance Abuse Treatment
         Program, an analysis of t,hepretrial services workload, a study of the Bail
         Reform Act of 1984, and training programs on alternatives to detention.




                Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-
         MAR 89, p. 16), the Defender Services Committee approved supplemental
         funding requests for the fiscal year 1994 for Federal Public Defender
         organizations in the amount of $683,300 and for Death Penalty Resource
         Centers in the amount of $260,566. In addition, the Committee approved
         funding of $20,000 for two new community defender organizations to become
         operational in fiscal year 1994, subject to congressional authorization.
       The Judicial Conference approved a one-year pilot project in the
Ninth Circuit to centralize and expand the scope of the Criminal Justice Act
(CJA) voucher review process. The project will fund from the Defender
Services appropriation the employment in one district of up to two staff
persons in the clerk's office to review CJA compensation vouchers.




       At the request of the Pacific Islands Committee of the Ninth Circuit
Judicial Council, the Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction, noting the
commonwealth status and exclusive federal jurisdiction of the Northern
Mariana Islands district court, recommended that the Judicial Conference
support legislation that would establish Article III status for the district
judgeship authorized for the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands. The Judicial Conference approved the Committee's
recommendation.




        The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of July 14,
 1994, it had received 2,547 financial disclosure reports and certifications for
the calendar year 1993, including 1,093 reports and certifications from
justices and Article IIIjudges, 296 from bankruptcy judges, 393 from
magistrate judges, and 765 from judicial employees.




       In its August 1993 report, the National Commission on Judicial
Discipline and Removal recommended that the Judicial Conference
reexamine the practice of specifically notifying a federal judge when a request
Judicial Conference of the United States


         for access to the judge's financial disclosure forms is made, to determine if
         valid security or other concerns justify continuation of the practice. The
         Financial Disclosure Committee, in consultation with the Committee on
         Security, Space and Facilities, reexamined the current notification procedures
         and found that security risks that could emanate from the release of financial
         information justify continuation of the current policy of notifying a federal
         judge when a request for access to the judge's financial disclosure forms is
         made.




                The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the
         period from January 1, 1994, through June 30, 1994,92 intercircuit
         assignments, undertaken by 71 Article ID justices and judges, were
         recommended by the Committee and approved by the Chief Justice.




                   FUNDSFOR INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS
         NON-JUDICLARY
                The Judicial Conference approved a Memorandum of Understanding
         with the Federal Judicial Center (FJC) Foundation Board and the FJC Board
         to accept and administer public and private gifts for Conferencesponsored
         programs and other appropriate international initiatives.




                Currently, federal judges who are military retirees, unlike other
         federal employees, are not permitted to withdraw from participation in the
         military's survivor annuity plan when they elect coverage under the Judicial
         Survivors' Annuities System (JSAS). On recommendation of the Committee
         on the Judicial Branch, the Judicial Conference agreed to pursue legislation
         to amend chapter 73 of title 10, United States Code, to permit federal judges
                                                                 September 20, 1QQ4


to choose the JSAS rather than the Military Survivor Benefit Plan for their
surviving dependents.


TAXATIONFOR GQVERNIVLENT-PROVIDED
                              HOME-TO-WORB:
TRANSPORTATION
       In 1993, the Internal Revenue Service promulgated new regulations
that require that the value of any home-to-work transportation provided to
any employee for security reasons be included in gross income. The Judicial
Conference approved a Committee recommendation to seek to include in
appropriate legislation the requisite amendment to exempt from taxation the
entire value of any transportation provided to federal judges for security
reasons.




        After evaluating the request for two additional temporary judgeships
in the Second Circuit utilizing interim criteria adopted in 1993, the Judicial
Resources Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference authorize
transmittal to Congress of a request for one additional temporary court of
appeals judgeship for the Second Circuit. The Judicial Conference approved
the recommendation, which will be transmitted along with its September
 1993 recommendation for 19 additional temporary court of appeals
judgeships (JCUS-SEP 93, pp. 51-62).

       On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, which
reviewed requests for additional district court judgeships utilizing a weighted
caseload formula and considering any special factors, the Judicial Conference
approved transmittal to Congress of a request for an additional 18
permanent and five temporary district judgeships, and the conversion of
three existing temporary judgeships to permanent, as follows:
Judicial Confernnee of the United States


                   Permanent Judaeshivs

                   Northern District of Texas (1)
                   Southern District of Texas (1)
                   Eastern District of Tennessee (1)
                   District of Colorado (1)
                   District of New Mexico (1)
                   District of Arizona (2)
                   Southern District of California (2)
                   District of Nevada (2)
                   Eastern District of New York (3)
                   Middle District of Florida (4)

                   Temvorarv Judaeshivs

                   Western District of New York (1)
                   Western District of North Carolina (1)
                   District of South Carolina (1)
                   Middle District of Louisiana (1)
                   Middle District of Alabama (1)

                   Conversion of Temvorarv to Permanent Judaeshi~s

                   Northern District of New York (1)
                   Eastern District of Virginia (1)
                   Northern District of Alabama (1)

         These recommendations will be transmitted in lieu of those previously
         approved by the Judicial Conference in September 1992 (JCUS-SEP 92,
         pp. 69-71).




                 The Judicial Conference recommitted to the Judicial Resources
         Committee a Committee recommendation regarding the use and selection of
         senior judges on panels and committees established under NAF'TA.
       The Judicial Conference, on recommendation of the Judicial Resources
Committee, revised the procedure for distributing funds for temporary
emergency persoilnel in chambers. Rather than making a distribution based
on historical need, effective in fiscal year 1995, the Administrative Office will
distribute such funds to the circuits and the Court of Federal Claims based
upon the number of authorized judicial officers in that circuit or court. The
Conference also agreed to set aside five percent of the temporary emergency
personnel funds in a reserve to be managed by the Administrative Office for
unanticipated needs.

        In order to make maximum use of resources, the Judicial Resources
Committee also recommended that the circuit judicial councils be authorized,
but not required, to adopt a policy that excludes employees hired under the
temporary emergency personnel fund from the Conference's provisions
regarding the awarding of within-grade increases and locality pay. The
Judicial Conference approved the recommendation and agreed that funding
for these programs will continue to be allocated to the councils, so that
additional st& could be hired utilizing temporary emergency personnel
funds, if a circuit council so desired.

        In addition, the Judicial Conference approved a Judicial Resources
Committee recommendation to modify the salary matching/advanced in-step
appointment policy to cover temporary emergency personnel fund law clerks
hired at the JSP-11 level (at step 6 or lower). The change would apply only
to law clerks who also qualify for appointment at the JSP-12 level. The new
policy provides the flexibility to offer an advanced step in the lower grade
yet effect a cost savings by offering a salary lower than JSP-12.




        On recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, the Judicial
Conference approved for inclusion in the fiscal year 1996 budget request four
additional permanent positions in circuit executives' offices: one each in the
District of Columbia and Fifth Circuits and two in the Sixth Circuit. All
requested positions are within the stffing ceilings established by the
Conference in September 1991 (JCUS-SEP 91, p. 63). In addition, the
Conference approved the Committee's recommendation to include in the
fiscal year 1996 budget request a twq-year temporary position to be
Judicial Confironceof the Unifed States


         established at the request of the circuit judicial council in any circuit
         currently performing, or contemplating performing, a study of biaa in the
         courts.




                The Judicial Resources Committee reported that it had given
         preliminary approval in principle to a new staffing methodology for use in
         evaluating the future requests for positions in preargument attorney offices
         in courts of appeals. Upon final Committee action, the methodology will be
         presented to the Judicial Conference for approval. In the interim, the
         Judicial Conference took the following actions regarding preargument
         attorney offices aa recommended by the Committee:

         1)        Approved a five-year cap of 22.5 conference attorney positions and
                   18.5 support staff positions for inclusion in budget requests beginning
                   with the request for fiscal year 1996, with caps for individual courts
                   set at levels that have been identified by the chief circuit judges;

         2)        Provided that individual positions requested by courts be included in
                   a given year's budget request by the Administrative Office upon a
                   determination that the requests meet established criteria (being
                   developed by the Committee for later consideration by the
                   Conference);

         3)        Provided that, should a court request positions in excess of its cap, its
                   request be considered by the Judicial Resources Committee for
                   approval by the Conference;

         4)        Provided that a new five-year cap be set by the Committee for
                   approval by the Conference at the end of the first five-year period;
                   and

         5)        Approved for inclusion in the fiscal year 1996 budget request, six
                   attorney positions and 7.5 support positions for preargument attorney
                   offices in eight courts of appeals, to be allocated to the requesting
                   courts upon Administrative Office determination that they satisfy the
                   criteria that are ultimately approved by the Conference.

               In addition, the Judicial Conference agreed to provide sufficient
         funding to promote one line conference attorney each in the Sixth and Tenth
                                                                September W, 1094


Circuits to the JSP-16 level and the remaining two line conference attorneys
in the Sixth Circuit to the JSP-15 level.




        On recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, the Judicial
Conference approved a revised stffing methodology to better assess a court's
interpreting needs. The new methodology includes an improved definition of
the workload term "interpreting events" and requires courts to submit a
profile of information when requesting new staff interpreter positions. In
addition, the Conference approved a modification of the coordination factor
in the district clerks' work measurement formula to increase the stffing
credit for non-Spanish interpreting in courts with staff court interpreters to
the same level currently allowed in courts without staff court interpreters.

        At the request of the district court and on recommendation of the
Judicial Resources Committee, the Judicial Conference converted to
permanent a temporary court interpreter position in the District of Rhode
Island.




       On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
approved one additional court reporter position each for the Districts of
Nevada and Rhode Island, the Northern District of Georgia, the Central
District of Illinois (subject to the confirmation of Judge Baker's successor),
and the Northern District of Oklahoma. In addition, the Conference set the
current ceiling of reporters at 16 for the Eastern District of New York,
provided the three senior judges on the court continue hll-time, and allowed
the hiring of one additional reporter for each new judge confirmed.




       At the request of the Economy Subcommittee of the Judicial
Conference Committee on the Budget, the Judicial Resources Committee
authorized a study on the grades of law clerks on the personal staffs of
federal judges (chambers or "elbow" law clerks). After careful consideration
of the study findings and the comments received from judges nationwide, the
Judicia1 Conference of the United Statee


         Judicial Resources Committee recommended, and the Conference took, the
         following actions:

          1)       With regard t o grades:

                   a)        Removed, effective October 31, 1994, the current freeze on
                             appointments and promotions of "elbow" law clerks above
                             JSP-13;

                   b)        Rescinded, effective October 31, 1994, the September 1990
                             Judicial Conference action which raised t o JSP-16 the highest
                             grade attainable for elbow law clerks;

                   C)        Provided all current JSP-16 elbow law clerks with two-year
                             "saved grade" protection commencing on October 31, 1994, and
                             "saved pay" protection commencing two years later, subject to
                             the normal provisions of the policy;

                   d)        Established JSP-15 as the highest grade attainable for elbow
                             law clerks who entered on duty as an elbow law clerk with the
                             federal judiciary on or before October 31, 1994, except as
                             limited by subsections (f) and (g)and section 3 below;

                   e)        Established JSP-14 as the highest grade attainable for elbow
                             law clerks who enter on duty after October 31, 1994, except as
                             limited by subsection (f) below;

                   f)        Provided that, effective October 31, 1994, a judge's personal
                             staff may include only one elbow law clerk position at JSP-14
                             or above, except as provided in subsection (g) below;

                   g)        Provided the following with respect to law clerks covered under
                             subsection (d) above, in addition to the provisions of
                             subsections (d) and (f):

                             i.       On or after October 31, 1994, a judge may promote one
                                      such law clerk to JSP-15 when so qualified, if there is
                                      no other law clerk on his or her staff at JSP-15 or
                                      above; and
                                                                  September 20,1994


              ii.     Effective October 31, 1994, law clerks at JSP-14 or JSP-
                      15 (beyond the limit of one for each judge's personal
                      staff) may continue at their grade for the duration of
                      their appointment with that judge. (Current JSP-16
                      elbow law clerks are covered by subsection (c) above.)

2)     With regard to qualifications: For elbow law clerks who enter on duty
       after October 31, 1994, reestablished the pre-September 1989 Judicial
       Conference policy requiring one year of federal elbow law clerk
       experience for appointment at or promotion to JSP-13, and two years
       of that type of experience for JSP-14 (see JCUS-SEP 87, pp. 62-63).

3)     With regard to elbow law clerks returning to the courts after a break
       in service: Provided that subsections l(e) and 2 above shall apply to
       elbow law clerks who, after October 31, 1994, return to court
       employment from a break in service of more than thirty consecutive
       calendar days.




        In September 1992, the Judicial Conference approved a new district
clerks' work measurement formula for implementation over a five-year
period (JCUS-SEP 92, p. 72). In March 1994, on recommendation of the
Judicial Resources Committee, the Executive Committee, on behalf of the
Conference, agreed to implement the full work measurement formula,
provided that this would not result in additional positions for district clerks'
offices but instead would be used only for redistribution of existing positions
among district clerks' offices (JCUS-MAR 94, pp. 4-5). At this session, in the
interest of equitable staffing policies for all court support units, the Judicial
Resources Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved,
full implementation of the district clerks' work measurement formula for
fiscal year 1995, even though such implementation, without additional
funding, would reduce the percentage level of allocation for other court
support units. See also "Court Interpreters," supra p. 57.


PROBATION AND PRETRIAL          SERVICES
                                      WORE MEASUREMENT
FORMULA

      The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Judicial
Resources Committee to amend theprobation and pretrial services work
Juclicial Conference of the United States


          measurement formula to include in fiscal year 1995 a factor for supervising
          electronic monitoring and home confinement cases. The factor reflects the
          work being performed in the new functional responsibility of supervising
          these individuals with special conditions.




                  The judiciary implemented a stffing equalization plan in fiscal year
          1994 for all clerks', probation, and pretrial services offices to address the
          problem of disparities in stffing levels among these offices (JCUS-MAR 94,
          p. 4). The plan encouraged movement of personnel from court units staffed
          above an established limit to court units staffed below a designated level.
          The Judicial Conference approved a Judicial Resources Committee
          recommendation to continue equalization efforts in fiscal year 1995 and to
          provide that positions over the staffing limit not be funded beyond
          September 30, 1995. The Conference further agreed to continue in fiscal
          year 1995 the equalization incentives used in fiscal year 1994 and to
          establish a 45-day window for voluntary separation incentive payments as
          early in the fiscal year as practicable in those court units over the designated
          limit (see also "Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments," supm p. 38).




                 The Long Range Planning Committee reported that it has continued
         its intensive efforts to develop a long range plan for the federal court system.
         A proposed plan will be disseminated for public comment prior to its
         submission to the Judicial Conference.




                 On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
          Magistrate Judges System, the Judicial Conference raised issue with the
          special master and fact-finder provisions contained in 4 599(D)(d) of the
                                                                September 20, 1QQ4


"Reorganization of the Federal Administrative Judiciary Act" (S. 486, lO3d
Congress). The Conference expressed concern that the provision, by allowing
and presumably encouraging federal courts to utilize Executive Branch
administrative law judges not supervised by the courts to perform judicial
functions in federal court proceedings, may blur the distinction between the
functions of the Executive and Judicial Branches.




       After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district
courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference
approved the following changes in salaries and arrangements for full-time
and part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact
are to be effective when appropriated funds are available.



New York (Eastern)

1)    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position a t
      Brooklyn;

2)    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
      Uniondale or Hauppauge;

3)    Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Patchogue at
      the end of the incumbent's term in April 1995; and

4)    Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
      the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

F o mCmcm
North Carolina (Eastern)

1)    Redesignated the official location of the full-time magistrate judge
      position at Fayetteville as Raleigh;
Judicial Conference of the United State8


          2)       Redesignated the official location of the fill-time magistrate judge
                   position at New Bern as Wilmington, effective upon the errpiration of
                   the term of the incumbent full-time magistrate judge in New Bern;
                   and

          3)       Redesignated the official location of the part-time magistrate judge
                   position at Wilmington as Greenville, effective upon the expiration of
                   the term of the incumbent part-time magistrate judge in Wilmington.

         North Carolina (Middle)

                   Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                   the magistrate judge positions in the district.

         South Carolina

                   Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                   the magistrate judge positions in the district.



         Kentucky (Eastern)

          1)       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at London to fill-
                   time status;

         2)        Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                   London from Level 6 ($10,320 per annum) to Level 5 ($20,640 per
                   annum), effective October 1, 1994, until the position is converted to
                   full-time;

         3)        Redesignated the official location of the full-time magistrate judge
                   position at Ashland or Catlettsburg as Ashland; and

         4)        Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                   the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

         Kentucky (Western)

          1)       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Owensboro to a
                   full-time position at Louisville or Owensboro;
2)     Discontinued the authority of the chief deputy clerk to perform
       magistrate judge duties; and

3)     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.



Illinois (Northern)

1)     Authorized one additional full-time magistrate judge position at
       Chicago; and

2)     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

Wisconsin (Western)

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the magistrate judge positions in the district.



Iowa (Northern)

       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position
       at Sioux City from Level 6 ($10,320 per annum) to Level 4
       ($30,960 per annum).

Minnesota

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the magistrate judge positions in the district.



California (Northern)

1)     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at San
       Francisco; and
Judicial Confimnceof the United States


         2)       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                  the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

         TENTH CIBCUIT

         Colorado

                  Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                  the magistrate judge positions in the district.

         New Mexico

         1)       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                  Albuquerque;

         2)       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Las
                  Cruces;

         3)       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Santa Fe
                  upon the appointment of the new magistrate judge at Albuquerque;

         4)       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Alamogordo
                  upon the appointment of the new magistrate judge at Las Crucea;

         5)       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Farmington;
                  and

         6)       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                  the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

         Wyoming

                  Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                  the magistrate judge positions in the district.

         ELEVENTH CmcTJrr
         Alabama (Northern)

                  Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                  the magistrate judge positions in the district.
                                                                   September 20,1#$4


   Florida (Southern)

    1)    Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Fort Pierce to
          full-time status;

    2)    Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Miami;

    3)    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Fort
          Pierce from Level 4 ($30,960 per annum) to Level 1($56,760 per
          annum), effective October 1, 1994, until such time as a full-time
          magistrate judge is appointed at Fort Pierce;

    4)    Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position a t Key
          West from Level 3 ($41,280 per annum) to Level 4 ($30,960 per
          annum); and

    5)    Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
          the other magistrate judge positions in the district.


   ACC-TED          FUNDING
                          FOR MAGISTRATE JUDGES

            The accelerated funding program was established to provide prompt
    magistrate judge assistance to judicial districts seriously affected by drug
    filings or the Civil Justice Reform Act. Based on the recommendations of the
    Magistrate Judges Committee, the Judicial Conference designated the new
    full-time magistrate judge positions at Brooklyn, New York; Uniondale or
    Hauppage, New York; San Francisco, California; Las Cruces, New Mexico;
    and Fort Pierce, Florida for accelerated funding in FY 1995.


COMMITTEE TO REVIEWCIRCUITCOUNCIL
CONDUCTAND D I S A B ~ TORDERS
                         Y
           COMMISSIONON JUDICLAL DISCIPLINE
    NATIONAL                              AND REMOVAL

           The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability
    Orders reported that it will continue to address issues raised by the
    recommendations of the National Commission on Judicial Discipline and
    Removal (National Commission). In March 1994, the Judicial Conference
    adopted a majority of these recommendations (JCUS-MAFt 94, pp. 28-31), but
    tasks remain, including the development of language amending the
Judicial Confireneeofthe United S t a h


         IUustrative Rules Governing Complaints of Judicial Misconduct and
         Disability. In addition, several recommendations by the National
         Commission which did not come within the jurisdiction of the Committee to
         Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders have been referred by
         the Conference Secretary to other committees for appropriate action.


        ON RULESOF PRACTICE
COMMITTEE
AND PROCEDURE



                The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
         Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Rules 4 (Appeal as of Right -
         When Taken), 8 (Stay or Injunction Pending Appeal), 10 (The Record on
         Appeal), and 47 (Rules by Courts of Appeal) of the Federal Rules of Appellate
         Procedure. The proposed amendments were accompanied by Committee
         notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference approved the
         amendments for transmission to the Supreme Court for consideration, with
         the recommendation that they be approved by the Court and transmitted to
         Congreas pursuant to law.




                The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
         Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 8018 (Rules
         by Circuit Councils and District Courts) and 9029 (Local Bankruptcy Rules),
         together with Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. These
         amendments were approved by the Conference, which authorized their
         transmittal to the Supreme Court for consideration, with the
         recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to
         Congress pursuant to law.




                The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
         Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Rules 50 (Judgment as a
         Matter of Law in Action Tried by a Jury; Alternative Motion for New Trial;
         Conditional Rulings), 52 (Findings by the Court; Judgment on Partial
         Findings), 69 (New Trials; Amendment of Judgments) and 83 (Rules By
District Courts) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Committee notes
explaining their purpose and intent were transmitted with the proposals.
The Conference approved these amendments and authorized their
transmittal to the Supreme Court for consideration, with the
recommendation that they be approved by the Court and transmitted to
Congress pursuant to law.




       The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Rules 5 (Initial Appearance
Before the Magistrate Judge), 40 (Commitment to Another District), 43
(Presence of the Defendant), 49(e) (Service and Filing of Papers), 53
(Regulation of Conduct in the Court Room), and 57 (Rules by District
Courts) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, together with Committee
notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference approved
amendments to Rules 5,40,43,49, and 57 and authorized their transmittal
to the Supreme Court, with the recommendation that they be adopted by the
Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law. The
Conference disapproved a proposed amendment to Criminal Rule 53
regarding cameras in criminal proceedings. See also "Cameras in the
Courtroom," supra pp. 46-47.




       In its Report of the Judicial Conference of the United States on the
Federal Defender h g m m (March 1993), the Judicial Conference referred to
the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, for consideration in
accordance with the Rules Enabling Act, a proposal to require the
prosecution to provide copies of discoverable materials to the defense and
allocate the costs of duplication (Federal Defender Report, March 1993, p. 42).
On recommendation of the Rules Committee, the Judicial Conference
determined to refer the proposal to allocate certain discovery costs between
the government and the defense in criminal cases to the Committee on
Defender Services since the subject is more appropriately handled by
statutory authorization.
Judicial Confireme of the United States




                 In September 1993, the Judicial Conference referred to the Committee
         on Rules of Practice and Procedure, in coordination with the Committees on
         Automation and Technology and Court Administration and Case
         Management, the question of whether, and under what technical guidelines,
         filing by facsimile on a routine basis should be permitted (JCUS-SEP 93,
         p. 45). On recommendation of all three Committees, the Judicial Conference
         determined to continue the existing policy on facsimile filing (see
         JCUS-SEP 91, pp. 52-53), and take no action to permit facsimile filing on a
         routine basis.


COMMI~TEEON SECURITY,
    AND FACILITIES
SPACE


                In an effort to ensure that the policy on accommodating handicapped
         accessibility will be uniform across the country, the Committee on Security,
         Space and Facilities recommended and the Judicial Conference approved
         amendments to the United States Courts Design Guide to add standards for
         handicapped accessibility.




             The Judicial Conference adjourned in honor of its outgoing Executive
         Committee Chairman, Chief Judge John F! Gerry.




                All of the foregoing recommendations which require the expenditure
         of funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference
         subject to the availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the
         Conference might establish for the use of available resources.
              The Conference authorized the immediate release of mattera
      considered at this session where necessary for legislative or administrative
      action.




                                                 Chief Justice of the United States
                                                 Presiding

November 30,1994
      CONFERENCE
JUDICIAL       OF THE UNITEDSTATES




            On August 9, 1994, by mail ballot, the Judicial Conference endorsed
    the following four principles related to remedies and enforcement provisions
    included in health care reform legislation:

    1)    Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies

                 The full exhaustion of administrative remedies for benefit
                 denial claims should be a requirement for any health care
                 legislation. Such a requirement enhances the efficiency and
                 effectiveness of the review of such claims. Claimants should
                 not be permitted to bypass administrative remedies and to
                 proceed directly into a court of competent jurisdiction.

   2)     Court Jurisdiction

                 Following the exhaustion of administrative remedies, and
                 consistent with the general principles of federalism, state
                 courts should be designated as the primary forum for the
                 review of benefit denial claims.

   3)     Discrimination

                 Traditional discrimination claims and actions should be
                 handled differently from benefit denial claims based on issues
                 such as medical necessity.

   4)     Administrative and Judicial Support

                 To ensure the effectiveness of the enforcement provisions of
                 any health care legislation, it is critical that sufficient
                 resources be provided to the responsible administrative and
                 judicial entities.
