March 14,1995


            The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington, D.C.,
     on March 14, 1995, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United States issued
     under 28 U.S.C. 6 331. The Chief Justice presided, and the following members of the
     Conference were present:

             First Circuit:

                     Chief Judge Juan R. Tomella
                     Chief Judge Joseph L. Tauro,
                             District of Massachusetts

             Second Circuit:

                     Chief Judge Jon 0. Newman
                     Judge Charles L. Brieant,
                             Southern District of New York

            Third Circuit:

                     Chief Judge Dolores K. Sloviter
                     Chief Judge Edward N. Cahn,
                             Eastern District of Pennsylvania

            Fourth Circuit:

                     Chief Judge Sam J. Ervin, 111
                     Judge W. Earl Britt,
                             Eastern District of North Carolina

            Fifth Circuit:

                     Chief Judge Henry A. Politz
                     Chief Judge Morey L. Sear,
                             Eastern District of Louisiana
Judicial Confirence ofthe United States


                     Sixth Circuit:

                               Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt
                               Chief Judge John D. Holschuh,'
                                       Southern District of Ohio

                     Seventh Circuit:

                               Chief Judge Richard A. Posner
                               Chief Judge Michael M. Mihm,
                                       Central District of Illinois

                     Eighth Circuit:

                               Chief Judge Richard S. Arnold
                               Judge Donald E. O'Brien,
                                       Northern District of Iowa

                     Ninth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge J. Clifford Wallace
                                Chief Judge Wm. Matthew Byrne, Jr.,
                                        Central District of California

                     Tenth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Stephanie K. Seymour
                                Judge Clarence A. Brimmer,
                                        District of Wyoming

                     Eleventh Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat
                                Judge Wm. Terrell Hodges,
                                        Middle District of Florida




      'Designated by the Chief Justice
                                                                             March 14, I995


        District of Columbia Circuit:

                Chief Judge Hany T. Edwards
                Chief Judge John Garrett Penn,
                        District of Columbia

        Federal Circuit:

                Chief Judge Glenn L. Archer, Jr.

        Court of International Trade:

                Chief Judge Dominick L. DiCarlo

        Circuit Judge Otto R. Skopil, Jc, and District Judges Maryanne Trump Barry,
Robert C. Broomfield, Richard P. Conaboy, Julia S. Gibbons, Philip M. Pro,
Alicemarie H. Stotler, and Ann C. Williams attended the Conference session. Circuit
Executives Vincent Flanagan, Steven Flanders, Toby Slawsky, Samuel W. Phillips,
Lydia Comberrel, James A. Higgins, Collins T. Fitzpatrick, June L. Boadwine,
Gregory B. Walters, Robert L. Hoecker, Norman E. Zoller, and Linda Ferren were
also present.

         Attorney General Janet Reno addressed the Conference on matters of mutual
interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice. Senators Joseph R. Biden, Jr.,
and Charles E. Grassley, and Representative Patricia S. Schroeder spoke on matters
pending in Congress of interest to the Conference.

        L. Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, attended the session of the Conferewe, as did Clarence A. Lee, Jr., Associate
Director for Management and Operations; William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate Director
and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel, Assistant Director, Judicial Conference
Executive Secretariat; Arthur E. White, Acting Assistant Director, Legislative and
Public Affairs; Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant Director, Judicial Conference
Executive Secretariat; and David A. Sellers, Public Information Officer. Judge
William W Schwarzer and Russell R. Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the
Federal Judicial Center, also attended the session of the Conference, as did Harvey
Rishikof, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice; Richard Schickele, Supreme
Court Staff Counsel; and Barbara Perry, Bob Deyling and Sarah Wilson, Judicial
Fellows.
Judicial Conference of the United States




                   Mr. Mecharn reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the courts
          and on matters' relating to the Administrative Office. Judge Schwarzer spoke to the
          Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs and Judge Conaboy, Chairman of
          the United States Sentencing Commission, reported on Sentencing Commission
          activities.



                  The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the Federal
          Judicial Center Circuit Judge Bruce M. Selya of the First Circuit, vice Judge
          Edward R. Becker, and District Judge Richard .'F Matsch of the District of Colorado,
          vice Judge Martin L. C. Feldman.




                  The Executive Committee reviewed memoranda fiom relevant Judicial
          Conference committees concerning several bills which Republicans in the House of
          Representatives introduced early in the 104th Congress as part of their "Contract with
          America." Since positions on the following issues would have been untimely if
          delayed, the Executive Committee acted on behalf of the Conference and agreed to:

           1)         Support a two-year study of the impact on the judiciary of applying to the
                     Third Branch disclosure, workplace, and labor laws currently applicable to the
                     private sector and the Executive and Legislative Branches, in lieu of applying
                     the "Congressional Accountability Act of 1995" (Public Law No. 104-1) to the
                     judiciary;

          2)         Ratify the position of the Budget Committee that the judiciary should be
                     excluded fiom a line-item veto provision;

          3)         Make no change in existing Judicial Conference positions on provisions of the
                     proposed "Taking Back Our Streets Act of 1995" (H.R. 3, 104th Congress)
                     related to:

                                Habeas corpus reform

                               Amendment of Rule 22, Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure
                                                                             March 14, 1995


        -       Federalization of firearms offenses

        -       Mandatory restitution

        -       Exclusionary rule; and

4)      Authorize the chairs of the Criminal Law and Federal-State Jurisdiction
        Committees to negotiate appropriate limitations to the scope of provisions of
        the "Taking Back Our Streets Act" if enactment appears likely, with the
        proviso that prior to taking a position with Congress that would deviate from a
        Conference position, they coordinate their actions with the Chair of the
        Executive Committee and the Director of the Administrative Office.

         The Executive Committee also considered recommendations from the Court
Administration and Case Management Committee regarding two provisions in the
Contract with America's "Common Sense Legal Reforms Act of 1995" (H.R. 10,
104th Congress). With respect to a diversity-based fee-shifting provision, the
Executive Committee determined to take no position, considering the matter to be one
which is properly left to Congress. However, the Committee noted that a fee-shifting
statute could increase the volume of litigation, and expressed hope that the Congress
would consider the judiciary's need for additional resources should it enact fee-shifting
legislation. Regarding a proposal that would have made prior notice a prerequisite to
bringing suit in federal district court, the Executive Committee endorsed the
recommendation of the Court Administration and Case Management Committee and
reaffirmed previous Conference opposition to a pre-filing notification requirement.


CAMERASIN THE COURTROOM

         At its September 1994 session, the Judicial Conference declined to expand a
pilot program which authorized camera coverage in civil proceedings in six district and
two appellate courts (JCUS-SEP 94, pp. 46-47). In December 1994, the Court
Administration and Case Management Committee determined not to make any
additional recommendations to the Judicial Conference in this area. In order to
provide fbrther guidance, the Judicial Conference slightly modified and then adopted
the following resolution recommended by the Executive Committee:

        The report of the Committee on Court Administration and Case
        Management reflects uncertainty of the direction that Committee
        should take regarding the further study of cameras in the courtroom.
        The Judicial Conference clarifies that the Court Administration and
        Case Management Committee is not prohibited from proposing pilot
Judicial Conference of the United States



                     programs or conducting other studies necessary to the making of
                     further recommendations on cameras in the courtroom, in civil cases
                     which differ from those disapproved by the Judicial Conference at its
                     September 1994 session.




                   In September 1994, the Judicial Conference approved a Memorandum of
          Understanding with the Federal Judicial Center (FJC) Foundation Board and the FJC
          Board so that the FJC Foundation can accept and administer public and private gifts
          for Judicial Conference-sponsored international initiatives (JCUS-SEP 94, p. 52).
          Because there is no direct relationship between the FJC Foundation and the Judicial
          Conference, the Executive Committee agreed that in order to assure that the priorities
          and unique needs of the Judicial Conference and its committees are given maximum
          consideration, it would be best for the Judicial Conference to have its own foundation.
          On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to pursue legislation to
          create a Judicial Conference Foundation that can receive and expend private
          contributions in support of official programs.




                   The World Trade Organization (WTO) has jurisdiction to resolve trade
          disputes arising under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and its
          accompanying Uruguay Round Agreements Act (collectively referred to as "GHT").
          The Executive Committee reviewed provisions in proposed legislation (S. 16, 104th
          Congress) that would establish a "WTO Dispute Settlement Review Commission"
          composed of five federal circuit judges who would review certain reports concerning
          trade disputes. On recommendation of the Intercircuit Assignments Committee, the
          Executive Committee, on the Conference's behalf, agreed to recommend to the
          Congress the exclusion of federal judges from consideration for Commission
          membership. The Committee further agreed that if the Judicial Conference is unable
          to convince the Congress to exclude federal judges, it would seek an amendment that
          only judges who have either retired under 28 U.S.C. $ 371(a) or resigned their
          positions be eligible for selection as Commissioners. Further, if the Judicial
          Conference is unsuccessful in persuading the Congress to remove the provision for
          appointment of active or senior judges as Commissioners, the Committee agreed that,
          at a minimum, the Conference would seek an amendment that the judges to be
          considered for the appointment be nominated by the Chief Justice with the concurrence
          of their chief circuit judges.
                                                                                March 14, 1995




           In response to an unfairly critical article concerning the Administrative Office
    which appeared in the Legal Times, the Executive Committee agreed that a published
    reply was appropriate and unanimous1J expressed its support for the Director and the
    Administrative Office by approving the following resolution:

                     Having reviewed carefully the article by Naftali Bendavid in
            the October 24, 1994 Legal Emes, it is the unanimous view of the
            Executive Committee of the Judicial Conference of the United States
            that the article is inaccurate and unfair.

                    Since he began in 1985, Director L. Ralph Mecham has been
            instrumental in leading the Administrative Office toward the
            accomplishment of its statutory mission: providing high quality
            support and service to the federal judiciary. Under Director Mecham's
            outstanding leadership, the Administrative Office has successfully
            dedicated itself to the achievement of these goals. This success helps
            ensure an effective, smoothly running judicial machine - one upon
            which the public can and does rely with confidence and respect.

                    The Executive Committee supports fully the work of the
           Administrative Office and endorses the goals of the agency as set by
           its Director. We encourage the Administrative Office and its Director
           to continue to provide the same caliber of excellence in its service to
           the courts and the public at large.



            On behalf of the Judicial Conference, the Executive Committee adopted the
    following -resolution honoring the outgoing Director of the Federal Judicial Center:

                   The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
           appreciation, respect, and admiration, the Honorable

                                WILLIAM W SCHWARZER

            Director of the Federal Judicial Center fiom April 1990 through March
            1995.

The Director, L. Ralph Mecham, did not participate in this vote.
2
Judicial ConJerence of /he UnifedSfales



                             Judge Schwarzer came to the Federal Judicial Center after
                    fifteen years of service on the United States District Court for the
                    Northern District of California, having distinguished himself as one of
                    the nation's most creative and effective trial judges and as a prolific
                    writer and teacher, especially concerning federal procedure and the
                    management of complex litigation.

                             Under his leadership, the Federal Judicial Center significantly
                    broadened its work in service of its statutory mission "to further the
                    development and adoption of improved judicial administration in the
                    courts of the United States.'' Through its education programs and
                    reference manuals, the Judicial Center has increased its practical
                    assistance to judges on the vexing problems of effective litigation
                    management, including the special challenges of cases presenting
                    complex scientific and technicat evidence. Judge Schwarzer recognized
                    the importance of the supporting personnel of the court system through
                    creation of a separate Judicial Center division for their education and
                    training.

                             Under Judge Schwarzer, Judicial Center research for Judicial
                    Conference committees has increased substantially in such areas as
                    appellate court structure, litigation management and revisions to the
                    federal procedural rules, sentencing, and long-range planning. The
                    Judicial Center has also helped promote understanding and cooperation
                    between the state and federal judiciaries and provided assistance and
                    information to the judiciaries in emerging democracies.

                             During much of Judge Schwarzer's tenure, the Judicial Center,
                    and indeed the entire judiciary, experienced demand for services that
                    outpaced the resources available. He has led the Judicial Center
                    creatively and effectively during these difficult times, sustaining the
                    morale and challenging the creativity of the Judicial Center staff, and
                    earning the appreciation of the judges and employees of the federal
                    courts.

                             We are pleased to acknowledge Judge Schwarzer's dedicated
                    service to the judiciary, most recently as Director of the Federal
                    Judicial Center, and we extend our sincere gratitude and esteem to him
                    and to Mrs. Schwarzer as they return to California.
                                                                      March 14, 1995




The Executive Committee:

Approved and subsequently revised the fiscal year 1995 spending plan for the
Salaries and Expenses appropriations account, and approved the spending plans
for the Defender Services, Fees of Jurors, and Court Security accounts;

Reaffirmed the need for fifteen new magistrate judge positions previously
approved by the Judicial Conference (see JCUS-SEP 93, pp. 52-56; JCUS-
MAR 94, pp. 23-27);

Agreed to change the location of the part-time magistrate judge position at
Lancaster in the Central District of California, to Bakersfield or Mojave in the
Eastern District of California (contingent upon circuit council approval), and
authorized the part-time position at Bakersfield or Mojave in the Eastern
District of California to serve also in the adjoining Central District of
California in accordance with 28 U.S.C. tj 631(a);

Approved the transfer of the official duty' stations of two bankruptcy judges, in
the District of Maryland from Rockville to Greenbelt and the redesignationof
Rockville as an additional place of holding bankruptcy court;

Declined to approve a request from a chief circuit judge to extend the term of
the incoming Judicial Conference district judge representative to a full three
years in lieu of his serving for the unexpired term of his predecessor;

Agreed that the Executive Committee chair would contact the president of the
American Bar Association in an effort to improve coordination;

Requested the Defender Services Committee to complete a thorough study
concerning the oversight of Community Defender organizations;

Authorized exceptions to the interim policy on employee relocation in three
instances, including one which was contingent upon circuit council approval;

Referred to the Committee on Automation and Technology, in coordination
with the Committee on the Budget, a letter concerning the procurement process
for computer-assisted legal research;
Judicial Conference of the United States


                     Approved the "Civil Justice Reform Act Report: Development and
                     Implementation of Plans by the United States District Courts" for filing with
                     the Congress as required by 28 U.S.C. ยง 479;

                     Agreed to poll members of the Judicial Conference regarding proposed
                     legislation concerning new Federal Rules of Evidence 4 13-415 (see infra
                     "Federal Rules of Evidence," p. 30);

                     Agreed that a proposed amendment to Rule 26(c), Federal Rules of Civil
                     Procedure, would be placed on the discussion calendar for the March Judicial
                     Conference session in lieu of a poll of the Conference prior to the session (see
                     infra "Federal Rules of Civil Procedure," p. 30); and

                     Approved a request of the International Judicial Relations Committee to
                     sponsor an Indo-United States Legal Exchange.


        ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE
COMMITTEE                   OFFICE


                   The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it considered a
          number of topics including: the implications of changes in the Congress; the agency's
          budget; organizational changes within the Administrative Office and an overview of
          agency activities; the Legal Rmes article on the Administrative Office and the
          agency's response (see supra "Resolutions," p. 7); ongoing General Accounting Office
          activities; and evaluation and assessment activities. The Committee also received
          detailed briefings on activities of the agency's Office of Facilities, Security and
          Administrative Services and the Office of Judges Programs.


COMMITTEEON AUTOMATION
AND TECHNOLOGY
                             -



          LO%'      R A ~ PLAN
                          E   FOR AUTOMATION

                   In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 5 612, the Judicial Conference approved the
          fiscal year 1995 update to the Long Range Plan for Automation in the Federal
          Judiciary recommended by the Committee on Automation and Technology.
                                                                                March 14, 1995




             At its September 1994 session, the Judicial Conference recommitted to the
    Committee on Automation and Technology a recommendation that an ad hoc group be
    appointed to study work processes of the courts and to recommend necessary process
    changes and the application of new technology techniques to effect those changes
    (JCUS-SEP 94, p. 44). At this session, the Conference approved a Committee plan to
    identify and implement several process innovation experiments. Pilot programs will be
    conducted in such areas as filing and docketing, attorney electronic filing of
    bankruptcy petitions, attorney electronic filing and docketing in mass tort cases,
    Central Violations Bureau imaging and electronic transfer, technology transfer, or
    alternative areas of similar character and scope. All of these pilots will include plans
    for evaluation and will sunset in April 1998.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM


             Under 28 U.S.C. 5 155(a), a bankruptcy judge may be transferred for
    temporary service in any judicial district other than that for which the judge was
    appointed upon approval of the judicial councils of the involved circuits. The Judicial
    Conference approved Guidelines for Intercircuit Assignments of Bankruptcy Judges at
    its September 1988 session (JCUS-SEP 88, pp. 59-60). After study of the
    effectiveness of the Guidelines, the Committee on the Administration of the
    Bankruptcy System recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, the
    following amendment to item 3 of the Guidelines (new language is underlined):

           3. The chief iudnes of the respective lending and borrowing appellate,
           district, and bankruptcy courts shall be notified of the proposed
           intercircuit assignment when the request is made. The chief judge of
           the borrowing circuit shall be entitled to full access to all pertinent
           information concerning the borrowed bankruptcy judge.




            Bankruptcy administrators in the six judicial districts in Alabama and North
    Carolina perform administrative functions that are almost identical to those performed
    by the United States trustees in the other districts. However, there are a number of
Judicial Conference ofthe United States


          administrative responsibilities that bankruptcy administrators cannot perform because
          they lack statutory authority comparable to that given to United States trustees. On
          recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference endorsed and approved for
          transmittal to the Congress proposed legislation that would authorize bankruptcy
          administrators to appoint trustees, examiners, and committees of creditors and equity
          security holders; to fix the maximum annual compensation and percentage fees of
          standing trustees; and to serve as trustees in bankruptcy cases when necessary.




                   Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 5 152(b)(l), the Judicial Conference determines the
           places of holding bankruptcy court. On recommendation of the Committee after
          consultation by the Director of the Administrative Office with the pertinent circuit
          judicial councils, the Conference approved the designations of Santa Fe, New Mexico,
          and Ely and Elko, Nevada, as additional places of holding bankruptcy court.


                  TO THE BANKRUPTCY
          AMENDMENTS             CODE

                   In the discharge provision for chapter 12 of the Bankruptcy Code (the family
          farmer chapter) set forth at 11 U.S.C. 5 1228, three references to section 1222(b)(10)
          are erroneous and should be replaced with references to section 1222(b)(9). The
          Judicial Conference approved the recommendation of the Committee to transmit to the
          Congress proposed technical amendments to section 1228 of the Bankruptcy Code.


COMMITTEE
        ON THE BUDGET



                   On recommendation of the Budget Committee, the Judicial Conference
          approved an amendment to the Budget Decentralization Guidelines and P m c e d u ~ sto
          allow courts to reprogram funds into the Judiciary Automation Fund with prior
          notification to the Administrative Office, and to remove limits on the number of
          transfers into the Judiciary Automation Fund from the Salaries and Expenses
          appropriation. These changes, which give increased flexibility to the courts, are
          effective immediately.
                                                                                  March 14. 1995




            The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that it had reviewed public
    comments concerning the widely-distributed proposed consolidated code of conduct,
    and made a number of substantive revisions thereto. The Committee plans to circulate
    the proposed revised consolidated code for an additional period of public comment.
    The Committee also plans to circulate for public comment a proposed revised code for
    federal public defenders. In addition, the Committee reported that it had received 40
    new written inquiries and issued 44 written advisory responses. The Chairman
    received and responded to 38 telephonic inquiries, and individual Committee members
    responded to 46 inquiries from their colleagues.


COMMITTEEON COURTADMINISTRATION
AND CASEMANAGEMENT

    BIASIN THE COURTS

          The Judicial Conference approved the following resolution presented by the
    Committee on Court Administration and Case Management:

           Invidious discrimination has no place in the federal judiciary. The
           circuit judicial councils are encouraged to study whether bias exists in
           the federal courts, based on gender, race or other invidious
           discrimination, and whether additional education programs are
           necessary.




            The Judicial Conference took action on several matters related to fees for
    electronic access to court data.

           First, the Judicial Conference at previous sessions has prescribed a $1 per
   minute fee for electronic access to court data for the district, bankruptcy, and appellate
   courts and for the United States Court of Federal Claims (see JCUS-MAR 91, p. 16;
   JCUS-MAR 94, p. 16; JCUS-SEP 94, p. 47), and the fee has been incorporated into
   the miscellaneous fee schedules for each of these federal courts The revenue
   generated by the fee is to be used to support and enhance the electronic public access
Judicial Conference of the United States



          systems. Because of the expectation that income accruing from the fee will exceed the
          costs of providing the service, the Committee recommended that the fee for electronic
          public access be reduced from $1 to 75 cents per minute. The Judicial Conference
          approved the recommendation.

                   Second, sections of the miscellaneous fee schedules relating to electronic
          public access provide that a court "may, for good cause, exempt persons or classes of
          persons from the fees, in order to avoid unreasonable burdens and to promote public
          access to such information." On recommendation of the Committee on Court
          Administration and Case Management, the Judicial Conference approved the addition
          of an advisory note as an appendix to the miscellaneous fee schedules promulgated
          under 28 U.S.C. $3 1913, 1914, 1926, and 1930, to clarify the judiciary's policy with
          respect to granting exemptions from electronic public access fees prescribed under
          those schedules. The advisory note is as follows:

                                                   APPENDIX

                     The Judicial Conference has prescribed a fee for electronic access to
                     court data, as set forth above in the miscellaneous fee schedule. The
                     schedule provides that the court may exempt persons or classes of
                     persons from the fees, in order to avoid unreasonable burdens and to
                     promote public access to such information. Exemptions should be
                     granted as the exception, not the rule. The exemption language is
                     intended to accommodate those users who might otherwise not have
                     access to the information in this electronic form. It is not intended to
                     provide a means by which a court would exempt all users.

                     Examples of persons and classes of persons who may be exempted
                     from electronic public access fees include, but are not limited to:
                     indigents; bankruptcy case trustees; not-for-profit organizations; and
                     voluntary ADR neutrals.

                  Finally, to the extent that a court grants exemptions from payment of the
          electronic access fee that do not fit within the above-established policy, the Committee
          recommended that the court not receive reimbursement from the fee revenues of its
          costs of providing electronic public access services, including, for example, the
          funding of new and upgraded equipment and peripherals, and operational costs such as
          telephone line charges attributable to electronic access services. The Conference
          agreed and approved the following policy:
                                                                             March 14, 1995



        Adherence to the Judicial Conference policy for granting exemptions
        will be necessary to receive funding for electronic public access-related
        services to the extent such funding is derived from fees for electronic
        access.




        The statutory authority for the Judicial Conference to establish miscellaneous
fee schedules for the appellate, district and bankruptcy courts, and the United States
Court of Federal Claims (28 U.S.C. $5 1913, 1914, 1926, and 1930), does not extend
to the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. In order to maintain consistency, the
Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Committee that legislation be
proposed authorizing the Conference to establish a miscellaneous fee schedule for the
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. The Conference also endorsed a Committee
recommendation that the Conference seek legislation to authorize the deposit of the
electronic public access fees collected by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
into the Judiciary Automation Fund as offsetting collections to reimburse the expenses
of providing the service.




         The Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) requires that
applications for emergency aid following a natural disaster be accompanied, when
relevant to the applicant, by copies of discharge orders and other documents related to
bankruptcy proceedings. In 1993 and in 1994, in order to alleviate the financial and
emotional hardships associated with obtaining copies of the required documents, the
Judicial Conference, through its Executive Committee, granted one-year waivers of
certain miscellaneous bankruptcy fees for flood victims from the Midwest and
Southeast regions, respectively (JCUS-SEP 93, p. 39; JCUS-SEP 94, p. 42). Rather
than review requests for waivers on a piecemeal basis, the Committee on Court
Administration and Case Management recommended that the Conference adopt a
general policy to allow a waiver for victims of natural disasters of miscellaneous fees
associated with obtaining copies of documents required by FEMA in applying for
emergency aid. This policy would permit waiver of copying, search, microfiche or
microfilm copying and retrieval of archived documents fees and would not apply to
filing fees under 28 U.S.C. 5 1930(a) or the $30 administrative fee. The Judicial
Conference approved the recommendation.
Judicial Conference of the United States



                   On another bankruptcy fee-related matter, the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994
          (Public Law No. 103-394) mandates a $15 increase in compensation of chapter 7
          trustees, and requires that a method be devised for raising sufficient funds for the
          increase. In consultation with the Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy
          System (which had carefully considered a number of alternatives), the Court
          Administration and Case Management Committee recommended that the Judicial
          Conference amend the bankruptcy court miscellaneous fee schedule promulgated
          pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 5 1930(b) to add a new $15 trustee fee surcharge, and the
          Conference agreed, as follows:

                     (8.1) Upon filing of a petition under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy
                     Code, the petitioner shall pay $15 to the clerk of the court for payment
                     to the trustee serving in the case as provided in 11 U.S.C. 5 330(b)(2).
                     An application to pay the fee in installments may be filed in the
                     manner set forth in Federal Rule of Bankruptcy Procedure 1006(B).

                     (8.2) Upon the filing of a motion to convert a case to chapter 7 of the
                     Bankruptcy Code, the movant shall pay $15 to the clerk of court for
                     payment to the trustee serving in the case as provided in 11 U.S.C.
                     5 330(b)(2). Upon the filing of a notice of conversion pursuant to section
                     1208(a) or section 1307(a) of the Code, $15 shall be paid to the clerk of the
                     court for payment to the trustee serving in the chapter 7 case as provided in
                     11 U.S.C. 5 330(b)(2). If the trustee serving in the case before the conversion
                     is the movant, the fee shall be payable only from the estate in the superseded
                     case and only to the extent that there is an estate realized.

          The Judicial Conference hrther agreed that the $15 fee surcharge would be effective
          August 1, 1995, and that the surcharge would apply in any chapter 7 case filed on or
          after that date and in any case converted to chapter 7 on or after that date, regardless
          of when the case was filed.




                  In an effort to clarify provisions of 28 U.S.C. 5 46(c) relating to participation
          of circuit judges who take senior status after hearing argument in an en banc case but
          before the decision is issued, the Judicial Conference agreed to support enactment of
          S. 353 (104th Congress). This bill would amend the section by adding at the end the
          following sentence:
                                                                               March 14, 1995


        A circuit judge who is in regular active service at the time of a
        rehearing en banc, but who retires from active service prior to the
        issuance of a decision, shall be competent to participate in such en
        banc decision.




        The, Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Committee on
Criminal Law to revise Publication 107, The Presentence Report, establishing
standards for the preparation of petty offense presentence and postsentence reports for
publication and distribution to probation officers. The revisions, which impose fewer
requirements, were developed as part of a program to economize operations in
probation and pretrial services offices.




        On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved
revisions to the "Judgment in a Criminal Case," including the creation of an "Amended
Judgment," for distribution to the courts. The modifications (1) implement new
requirements created by the Violent Crime Control.and Law Enforcement Act of 1994
(Public Law No. 103-322) in the areas of drug possession, drug testing, and the
probation officer's duty to report address changes of certain offenders to law
enforcement agencies; (2) assist in the implementation of national collection
procedures of the National Fine Center; and (3) reflect case law regarding restitution.




        The Judicial Conference approved a Criminal Law Committee proposal that the
Conference recommend to courts from which judge-commissioners appointed to serve
on the United States Sentencing Commission are drawn that, if a judge-commissioner
so desires, the judge's workload on the court be adjusted to accommodate service on
the United States Sentencing Commission.

        In addition, the Conference approved the Annual Report of the Judicial
Confe~nceto the United States Sentencing Commission for submission to the
Commission. The Judicial Conference is required under 28 U.S.C. 5 994(0) to submit
a written report to the United States Sentencing Commission, at least annually.
Judicial Conference of the United States




                    The Conference approved a recommendation of the Criminal Law Committee
           relating to the witness security program.




                  Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR 89,
          pp. 16-17), the Defender Services Committee approved funding requests for the fiscal
          year 1995 for Federal Public Defender organizations in the amount of $113,150,600,
          and for Community Defender organizations in the amount of $30,027,500. In
          addition, the Committee approved $19,354,400 for Post-Conviction Defender
          organizations, formerly known as "Death Penalty Resource Centers."




                  The Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law
          No. 103-322) amended section 3005 of title 18, United States Code, to set new
          standards and procedures for the appointment of counsel in federal capital
          prosecutions. To implement the amendment, the Committee on Defender Services
          recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, revisions to paragraph 6.01 of
          the Criminal Justice Act Guidelines (CJA Guidelines). The revisions include new
          guidelines regarding the number of counsel to be appointed in federal capital
          prosecutions, their qualifications, and the procedures for Federal Public Defender
          organizations and the Administrative Office to follow in making recommendations to
          the courts on the assignment of counsel in such cases.

                  The Conference also approved the Committee's recommendation to amend
          paragraph 6.01(A) of the CJA Guidelines to provide that judicial officers "should
          consider appointing" at least two counsel in capital habeas corpus cases.




                  At its March 1993 session, the Judicial Conference agreed to propose that
           Congress amend the Criminal Justice Act (CJA) to delegate to the Conference
                                                                             March 14, 1995


authority to set case compensation maxima for panel attorneys and experts (JCUS-
MAR 93, p. 27). After reaffirming its support for such an amendment to the CJA, the
Conference at this session adopted the following alternatives in the event that authority
to establish case compensation maxima is not granted:

1)      The CJA should be amended to authorize the Judicial Conference to increase
        the case compensation maxima immediately within particular districts and
        circuits in proportion to the increases in CJA hourly rates implemented since
        1986 in those districts or circuits;

2)      The CJA should be amended to authorize the Judicial Conference to increase
        the case compensation maxima periodically in proportion to any future
        increases in CJA attorney compensation rates; and

3)      If the Judicial Conference is not authorized to increase case compensation
        maxima, the Congress should amend the CJA to increase the case
        compensation maxima immediately for attorneys and experts.

        The Conference also approved a Committee recommendation to amend
paragraph 2.11(A) of the CJA Guidelines to permit appointed counsel to claim
compensation for work performed by attorneys other than associates or partners, with
the prior authorization of the court.

         In addition, the Defender Services Committee, pursuant to the authority
delegated to it by the Judicial Conference (JCUS-SEP 91, p. 57), approved a
maximum rate of $75 per hour for both in-court and out-of-court services of appointed
counsel for the District of South Dakota, subject to the availability of funds. This
brings to 89 the number of districts for which an alternative CJA panel attorney
compensation rate of $75 per hour has been authorized. Due to funding limitations,
alternative rates have been implemented in only 16 of these districts.




         In an effort to monitor and control costs, the Committee recommended, and
the Judicial Conference approved, an amendment to the CJA Guidelines to add an
explicit requirement that CJA panel attorneys maintain and retain contemporaneous
time records to assist in the review of questioned vouchers by the presiding judicial
officer and to facilitate the audit of payments. The amendment reads as follows:
Judicial Conference of the United States



                     2.32 Record Keepinq. Appointed counsel must maintain
                     contemporaneous time and attendance records for all work performed,
                     including work performed by associates, partners, and support staff, as
                     well as expense records. Such records, which may be subject to audit,
                     must be retained for three years after approval of the final voucher for
                     an appointment.




                   The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it has been
          analyzing the implications to the judiciary of a number of legislative initiatives, mostly
          related to the House Republicans' "Contract with America," including habeas corpus
          reform; prisoner civil rights litigation; judicial review and new civil actions; product
          liability reform; requirements for reports issued by committees of the House of
          Representatives; and private securities litigation reform.




                    The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of December 27,
           1994, it had received 2,874 financial disclosure reports and certifications for the
          calendar year 1993, including 1,203 reports and certifications from justices and Article
           I11 judges, 344 from bankruptcy judges, 442 from magistrate judges, and 885 from
          judicial employees.




                  The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the period
          from July 1, 1994, through December 3 1, 1994, 83 intercircuit assignments,
          undertaken by 64 Article I11 justices and judges, were recommended by the Committee
          and approved by the Chief Justice.
                                                                                March 14, 1995




          The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported that it has received
   hundreds of responses to its survey concerning the interest of judges and court
   administrators in providing assistance to foreign judiciaries. The survey will assist the
   Committee in providing referrals to parties interested in identifying judges and court
   personnel for rule of law programs and other judiciary-related international matters.


        ON THE JUDICIAL
COMMITTEE             BRANCH


            At its September 1994 session, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek
   legislation to permit federal judges who are military retirees to choose the Judicial
   Survivors' Annuities System (JSAS) rather than the Military Survivor Benefit Plan for
   their surviving dependents (JCUS-SEP 94, pp. 52-53). Because there are some
   anomalies in the treatment of judges who are military retirees which will not be
   remedied by its September 1994 action, the Conference, at this session, approved a
   recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch to authorize the Director of
   the Administrative Office to fashion and submit to the Congress legislation to correct
   various aberrations in the treatment of judges who are enrolled in the JSAS and the
   Military Survivor Benefit Plan. This action is taken in lieu of the Conference's
   September 1994 position seeking amendment to chapter 73 of title 10, United States
   Code.




             Since 1974, based on a decision of the former Committee on Court
   Administration, the Administrative Office has been following a practice of providing
   statistics regarding individual judicial workloads only on an "impersonal basis" and, for
   the most part, limiting disclosure of names of individual judges when compiling
   statistical information about the caseload of the courts. Recognizing the potential for
   judge-specific information taken out of context to be misinterpreted, the administrative
    burden of compiling information to satisfy outside requests, and the availability to
Judicial Conference of the United States


          researchers of the information from individual courts, the Committee on Judicial
          Resources recommended that the Judicial Conference endorse the current practice
          prohibiting disclosure (except to the extent required by law) of judge-identifling
          information from statistical databases, while the Committee continues to study the
          matter. The Judicial Conference approved the recommendation.




                  On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, the Judicial
          Conference approved a new staffing methodology for allocating preargument
          conference attorney positions. The methodology establishes criteria, including staffing
          benchmarks of 200 settlement conferences for each conference attorney and 400
          settlement conferences for each support position. The benchmarks would not be
          applied automatically, but would be used within the framework of the criteria, taking
          into consideration the uniqueness of each circuit's program.




                    The Judicial Conference approved modifications, as recommended by the
          Committee on Judicial Resources, to the methods for allocating electronic court
          recorder operator positions for active district judges. In the future, electronic court
          recorder operator positions will be allocated in the same manner as court reporter
          positions, removed from the district clerks' work measurement formula, and exempt
          from percentage staffing level limitations for district clerks' offices. Electronic court
          recorder operators will remain under the supervision of the clerk, and incumbents of
          these positions will continue to perform other deputy clerk functions when not
          performing court recording functions. In addition, the same credit will be provided in
          the district clerks' work measurement formula for supervision of electronic court
          recorder operators for active district judges as is provided for court reporter
          supervision. Allocation of electronic court recorder operator positions for senior
          district judges, bankruptcy judges and magistrate judges is not affected by this action.




                   In order to conform to available technology, the Judicial Resources Committee
          recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, an amendment to the transcript
          format guidelines to delete the requirement that words be hyphenated at the end of a
          line of transcript text. The guidelines are published in the Guide to Judiciary Policies
          and Pmcedues, Volume VI, Chapter XVIII.
                                                                            March 14, 1995




SAVED-GRADE
         AND SAVED-PAY

         Upon the death of a judicial officer, the secretaries to that judge are covered
by the saved-grade and saved-pay plan. The plan provides that the secretaries are
entitled to a two-year saved-grade period, except that the amount of time the
secretaries have been retained in their positions beyond the death of the judge is
subtracted from that two-year period. The Judicial Conference approved a Committee
recommendation that law clerks on the personal staff of a judge who dies are subject
to the same requirement as judges' secretaries with respect to the saved-grade period.




         The 103rd Congress passed several pieces of legislation that affect court
employees under the leave program. On recommendation of the Committee, the
Judicial Conference approved the issuance of leave policy changes to replace current
guidance appearing in the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, Volume I ,
Chapter X, Subchapters 1630.1 and 1630.2.




       The Judicial Conference took the following actions with regard to the
Proposed Long Range Plan for the Federal Courts:

1)      Received the Long Range Planning Committee's submission of the Proposed
        Long Range Plan for the Federal Courts (Plan);

2)      Agreed to refer to the appropriate Judicial Conference committees for further
        study and report to theSeptember 1995 Judicial Conference any of the Plank
        numbered recommendations upon the specific request of a Conference member
        made no later than April 11, 1995;

3)      Approved, effective April 12, 1995, all recommendations of the Plan not
        identified by a Conference member as requiring further study (as provided
        above). Approval of the Plan recommendations shall include approval of the
        implementation strategies but shall not include approval of the commentary;
        and
Judicial Conference of the United States



          4)         Authorized public distribution of the proposed Plan with the following
                     disclaimer: "The Committee on Long Range Planning has proposed this Long
                     Range Plan for consideration by the Judicial Conference of the United States.
                     None of the recommendations presented herein represents the policy of the
                     Judicial Conference unless approved by the Judicial Conference."

                  The Conference also agreed to maintain a planning mechanism in its decision-
          making process and promote continued planning at all levels of the federal court
          system.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGESSYSTEM
          MISDEMEANORAND PETTYOFFENSE
                                    CASES
          INVOLVING
                  JUVENILEDEFENDANTS

                  Magistrate judges have the authority to try and sentence juvenile defendants
          accused of certain misdemeanor offenses and infractions, but not others. In addition,
          although magistrate judges may order the pretrial detention of juvenile defendants,
          they have no authority to sentence juvenile defendants to terms of imprisonment in any
          case. The Judicial Conference approved a Magistrate Judges Committee
          recommendation to endorse amendment of the Federal Magistrates Act, 18 U.S.C.
          ยง 4301(g), to give magistrate judges authority over Class A misdemeanor cases
          involving juvenile defendants and to provide magistrate judges with the authority to
          sentence juvenile defendants to terms of imprisonment in petty offense and
          misdemeanor cases.




                   After consideration of the report of the Committee and the recommendations
          of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial
          councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the following changes in
          salaries and arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrate judge positions.
          Changes with a budgetary impact are to be effective when appropriated funds are
          available.
                                                                            March 14, 1995




North Carolina, Eastern

I)      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position, upon
        redesignation as Greenville, fi-om Level 5 ($20,640 per annum) to Level 4
        ($30,960 per annum); and

2)      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        other magistrate judge positions in the district.

District of South Carolina

        Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Florence to full-time
        status.

Eastern District of Virginia

1)      Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Alexandria; and

2)      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        other full-time magistrate judge positions in the district.



Eastern District of Louisiana

        Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

Western District of Louisiana

        Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

Southern District of Mississippi

1)      Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Hattiesburg or
        Biloxi or Gulfport; and

2)      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        other magistrate judge positions in the district.
Judicial Conference of the United States



          Northern District of Texas

                     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                     magistrate judge positions in the district.

          Southern District of Texas

           1)        Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Corpus Christi;
                     and

          2)         Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                     other magistrate judge positions in the district.



          Southern District of Ohio

                     Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Portsmouth upon the
                     expiration of the term of the incumbent on April 30, 1995.



          Central District of Illinois

                     Authorized the full-time magistrate judges at Peoria, Danville (or Champaign-
                     Urbana), and Springfield, in the Central District of Illinois, to serve in the
                     adjoining Southern District of Iowa in accordance with 28 U.S.C. ยง 63 l(a).



          Southern District of Iowa

          I)         Authorized the two full-time magistrate judges at Des Moines and the part-
                     time magistrate judges at Council Bluffs and Burlington, in the Southern
                     District of Iowa, to serve in the adjoining Central District of Illinois and
                     District of Nebraska in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 9 63l(a);

          2)         Redesignated the part-time magistrate judge position at Burlington as
                     Burlington or Davenport; and

          3)         Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                     other magistrate judge positions in the district.
                                                                             March 14, 1995


District of Nebraska

1)      Authorized the full-time magistrate judges at Omaha and Lincoln, in the
        District of Nebraska, to serve in the adjoining Southern District of Iowa in
        accordance with 28 U.S.C. $63 1(a); and

2)      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        other magistrate judge positions in the district.

District of South Dakota

1)      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Sioux Falls
        from Level 5 ($20,640 per annum) to Level 2 ($51,600 per annum); and

2)     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.



District of Hawaii

       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Wailuku from
       Level 7 ($5,160 per annum) to Level 4 ($30,960 per annum) for a five-month
       period commencing on April 1, 1995, with a reduction back to Level 7
       thereafter, subject to the availability of funds.

District of Montana

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

District of Nevada

1)     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Reno; and

2)     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.
Judicial Conference of the United States




          Eastern District of Oklahoma

                     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                     magistrate judge positions in the district.



          Middle District of Alabama

           1)        Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Montgomery;
                     and

          2)         Made no change in the number, locations or arrangements of the other
                     magistrate judge positions in the district.

          Northern District of Florida

           1)        Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Pensacola or
                     Gainesville; and

          2)         Upon the appointment of a magistrate judge to fill the newly-authorized
                     position, agreed to:

                     a.         discontinue the part-time magistrate judge position at Panama City if
                                the court decides to locate the new full-time magistrate judge position
                                at Pensacola; or

                     b.         discontinue the part-time magistrate judge position at Gainesville if the
                                court decides to locate the new full-time magistrate judge position at
                                Gainesville.

          3)         Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                     other magistrate judge positions in the district.




                 Section 301(e) of the "Violent Criminal Incarceration Act of 1995" (H.R. 667,
          104th Congress), which has passed the House of Representatives, provides that only a
          United States magistrate judge may be appointed to serve as a special master or
                                                                                 March 14, 1995



    monitor in a prison conditions case. It states that a special master in such a case shall
    make proposed findings on the record on complicated factual issues, "but shall have no
    other function," and that parties "may not by consent extend the function of a special
    master beyond that permitted under this subsection." On recommendation of the
    Committee, the Judicial Conference opposed section 301(e) of H.R. 667 because it
    would limit the authority of a district court to appoint special masters under Rule 53 of
    the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and could be interpreted to limit the authority of
    a magistrate judge under the Federal Magistrates Act (see 28 U.S.C. 5 636). The
    Judicial Conference also agreed to request that if the measure is adopted, adequate
    resources be provided for the judiciary to carry out its mandate.




             In March 1994, the Judicial Conference adopted a series of recommendations
    made by the Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders in
    response to recommendations contained in the Report of the National Commission on
    Judicial Discipline and Removal (JCUS-MAR 94, pp. 27-3 1). Many of the
    recommendations require the development of language amending the "lllustrative Rules
    Governing Complaints of Judicial Misconduct and Disability." The Committee
    reported that it is preparing revisions to the "lllustrative Rules," which will be
    circulated for comment within the judiciary in the near future.


COMMITTEEON RULESOF PRACTICE
AND PROCEDURE



            The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the Judicial
    Conference proposed amendments to the Official Bankruptcy Forms made necessary
    by the enactment of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994 (Public Law No. 103-394).
    The Judicial Conference approved the Committee's proposals to amend Official
    Bankruptcy Forms 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9A, 9C, 9D, 9E, 9E(Alt.), 9F, 9F(Alt.), 9G, 9H, 91,
    10, 16A, 16B, 16C, 17, and 18, and to adopt new Official Forms 16D and 19. The
    amendments take effect immediately.
Judicial Conference of the United States




                   The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the Judicial
          Conference proposed amendments to Civil Rule 26 (General Provisions Governing
          Discovery; Duty of Disclosure). The proposed amendments grew out of a cooperative
          process in which the Advisory Committee on Civil Rules responded to concerns
          expressed by Congress in a number of legislative proposals. The amendments sought
          to meet the concern that protective orders may conceal information that could protect
          against ongoing risks to public health and safety, without imposing onerous procedural
          requirements that might weaken the benefits of protective orders in litigation over
          issues that do not involve any risk to public health or safety. The amendments were
          circulated to the bench and bar and discussed at a public hearing, and modifications
          were made to the original proposal in response to comments received. After voting to
          modify the proposed rule by striking the phrase "on stipulation of the parties," the
          Judicial Conference'recommitted to the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure
          for further study the proposed amendments to Civil Rule 26(c).

                  The Rules Committee also recommended to the Conference that it propose to
          the Congress that the service provisions contained in the Suits in Admiralty Act,
          46 U.S.C. 5 742, which are different from the service provisions in Civil Rule 4, be
          deleted. The Committee noted that 5 742 was enacted before the Civil Rules were
          adopted, and concluded that there is no apparent reason to have inconsistent time
          periods for service of process or to treat suits in admiralty differently from other civil
          actions. The Conference approved the Committee's recommendation.




                   Under the "Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994" (Public
          Law No. 93-322), new Rules 413-415 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, dealing with
          the admission of character evidence in certain sexual misconduct cases, were to take
          effect in February 1995 unless the Judicial Conference submitted alternative
          recommendations for amending the Evidence Rules as they affect the admission of
          evidence of a defendant's prior sexual assault or child molestation crimes in cases
          involving sexual assault or child molestation. By mail ballot concluded February 8,
          1995, the Judicial Conference approved a Rules Committee recommendation to urge
          that Congress reconsider its policy determinations underlying Evidence Rules 4 13-4 15.
          In the alternative, the Conference proposed amendments to Evidence Rules 404 and
          405 in lieu of new Evidence Rules 413, 4 14, and 4 15. The Conference's report was
          transmitted to the Congress on February 9, 1995.
                                                                                 March 14, 1995




            The "Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Improvement Act of 1995"
    (S. 3, 104th Congress), includes a provision that would require that the number of
    representatives from the Department of Justice on the Appellate, Criminal, Evidence,
    and Standing Rules Committees be equal to the number of non-judge committee
    members who represent defendants. The Judicial Conference endorsed a Committee
    recommendation that it oppose legislation regulating the composition of the
    committees constituted to advise the Judicial Conference and the Chief Justice.of the
    United States.


COMMITTEE ON SECURITY,
SPACEAND FACILITIES


            Each district has established a security committee to ensure that court security
    matters are addressed promptly and systematically. In order to reflect accurately the
    nature and composition of the committees, the members of which may include
    individuals from outside the district court, such as the United States Marshal, the
    United States Attorney, and representatives from the court of appeals and General
    Services Administration (GSA), the Committee on Security, Space and Facilities
    recommended that the name be changed from "district court security committee" to
    "court security committee." The Judicial Conference approved the recommendation.


    SETTINGPRIORITIES
                   FOR COURTHOUSE
                               CONSTRUCTION
                                         PROJECTS

             For some time, Congress and the General Services Administration have been
    urging the judiciary to prioritize courthouse construction project requests. Recognizing
    the complexity of the process and its implications for court governance, the Committee
    nonetheless determined that adoption of a process of setting priorities for construction
    projects would be beneficial during these times of severely limited financial resources
    and enhanced fiscal accountability. On recommendation of the Committee, the
    Judicial Conference agreed to adopt a process for prioritizing courthouse construction
    and alteration projects requiring congressional authorization. The process involves the
    circuit judicial councils, the Committee, and the Judicial Conference as follows:
Judicial Conference of the United States



            1)       The local court develops its long range facilities plan;

           2)        The circuit judicial council exercises statutory authority to consider the need
                     for proposed projects resulting from the plan;

           3)        Circuit councils and courts receive from the Security, Space and Facilities
                     Committee listings of all council-approved projects for their respective districts
                     or circuits;

           4)        Courts forward comments on listings to the circuit councils;

           5)        Councils consider court comments and provide feedback to the Committee;

           6)        The Committee compiles a proposed national five-year plan taking into
                     account court and council comments and spending caps, and utilizing a set of
                     criteria based on urgency of need, including (a) the length of time that space
                     has been needed; (b) the number of judicial officers impacted by the lack of
                     space; (c) alternatives available to provide temporary solutions; and (d) the
                     severity of security problems;

           7)        The Committee provides its recommendations to relevant courts and councils
                     for review;

           8)        Any comments received are considered by the Committee and all comments
                     will be made available to the Judicial Conference;

           9)        A proposed five-year plan is provided to the Judicial Conference for its
                     consideration; and

          10)        If approved by the Conference, the plan is provided to GSA for integration
                     with the government-wide construction program.




                  Noting the deaths of Judge John F. Gerry and Judge Vincent L. Broderick, the
          Judicial Conference adopted the following resolutions:
                                                                     March 14, 1995


        The Judicial Conference of the United States notes with deep
sadness the death of the Honorable

                           JOHN E GERRY

of Moorestown, New Jersey, on March 10, 1995.

        Judge Gerry served with distinction on the federal bench for
over twenty years, including seven years as chief judge of the District
of New Jersey. As a member of the Judicial Conference and three of
its committees, most notably as chairman of the Executive Committee,
Judge Gerry played a pivotal role in shaping federal judicial
administration. We will miss his wisdom, common sense, and ever-
present wit. He has left a legacy that will not soon be forgotten.

       The members of the Judicial Conference convey their deepest
sympathies to Judge Gerry's widow, Jean Gerry, and to his family.



        The Judicial Conference of the United States notes with deep
sadness the death of the Honorable

                     VINCENT L. BRODERICK

of New York City, New York, on March-3, 1995.

         Judge Broderick served the judiciary with distinction for over
nineteen years. In addition to his contributions as a district judge in
the Southern District of New York, he made a significant impact on
federal judicial administration through his work as a member and
chairman of the Judicial Conference Committee on criminal Law.

        The members of the Judicial Conference convey their deepest
sympathies to Judge Broderick's widow, Sally Broderick, and to his
family.
Judicial Conference of the United States




                  All of the foregoing recommendations which require the expenditure of funds
          for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to the
          availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the Conference might establish
          for the use of available resources.



                  The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters considered by this
          session where necessary for legislative or administrative action.




                                                          Presiding
                                                                                   I*
 April 28, 1995
