REPORT OF TBE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL
              C
              ON
               E
               FR
                'E
                 NC
                  E
OF THE UNITEDSTATES

September 17,1996


             The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington, D.C.,
     on September 17, 1996, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United States
     issued under 28 U.S.C. 9 33 1. The Chief Justice presided, and the following members
     of the Conference were present:

            First Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Juan R. Tormella
                    Chief Judge Joseph L. Tauro,
                            District of Massachusetts

            Second Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Jon 0. Newman
                    Chief Judge Peter C. Dorsey,
                            District of Connecticut

            Third Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Dolores K. Sloviter
                    Chief Judge Edward N. Cahn,
                            Eastern District of Pennsylvania

            Fourth Circuit:

                    Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson, 111
                    Judge W. Earl Britt,
                            Eastern District of North Carolina

            Fifth Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Henry A. Politz
                    Chief Judge William H. Barbour,
                            Southern District of Mississippi
Judicial Conjerence of the United States



                     Sixth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt
                                Judge S. Axthur Spiegel,
                                        Southern District of Ohio

                     Seventh Circuit:

                                Judge Joel M. Flaum'
                                Chief Judge Michael M. Mihm,
                                        Central District of Illinois

                     Eighth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Richard S. Arnold
                                Judge Donald E. OYBrien,
                                        Northern District of Iowa

                     Ninth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Procter Hug, Jr.
                                Chief Judge Wm. Matthew Byrne, Jr.,
                                        Central District of California

                     Tenth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Stephanie K. Seymour
                                Judge Clarence A. Brimmer,
                                        District of Wyoming

                     Eleventh Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat
                                Judge Wm. Terrell Hodges,
                                        Middle District of Florida




      'Designated by the Chief Justice to attend in lieu of Chief Judge Richard A. Posner.

                                                            40
                                                                        September 17, 1996


        District of Columbia Circuit:

                chief Judge Hamy T. Edwards
                Chief Judge John Garrett Penn,
                        District of Columbia

        Federal Circuit:

                Chief Judge Glenn L. Archer, Jr.

        Court of International Trade:

                Chief Judge Dominick L. DiCarlo

        Circuit Judge Patrick E. Higginbotham, and District Judges J. Owen Forrester,
Julia Smith Gibbons, and Alicemarie H. Stotler attended the Conference session.
Circuit Executives Vincent Flanagan, Steven Flanders, Samuel W. Phillips, Gregory A.
Nussel, James A. Higgins, Collins T. Fitzpatrick, June L. Boadwine, Gregory B.
Walters, Robert L. Hoecker, Norman E. Zoller, and Linda Ferren were also present.

         Senators Orrin G. Hatch and Howell Heflin and Representatives Henry J.
Hyde, Carlos Moorhead, and Patricia Schroeder spoke on matters pending in Congress
of interest to the Conference. Attorney General Janet Reno and Acting Solicitor
General Walter Dellinger addressed the Conference on matters of mutual interest to the
judiciary and the Department of Justice.

         Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence A. Lee, Jr.,
Associate Director for Management and Operations; William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate
Director and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel, Assistant Director, Judicial Conference
Executive Secretariat; Michael W. Blommer, Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs;
David Sellers, Acting Assistant Director, Public Affairs; and Wendy Jennis, Deputy
Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat. Judge Rya W. Zobel
and Russell R. Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center,
also attended the session of the Conference, as did James Duff, Administrative
Assistant to the Chief Justice, and Judicial Fellows Sirkka A. Kaufman, Harry L.
Pohlman, Mark Syska, and Elizabeth Woodcock.
Judicial Conference ofthe United Sfafes




                 Mr. Mecharn reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the courts
          and on matters relating to the Administrative Office. Judge Zobel spoke to the
          Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs, and Judge Richard Conaboy,
          Chairman of the United States Sentencing Commission, reported on Sentencing
          Commission activities.




                  In March 1996, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek the extension or
         conversion of eleven temporary judgeships (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 24). Although the
         request to Congress for these temporary judgeships was initially submitted separately,
          it was subsequently combined with the Judicial Conference's request for new
         judgeships. Neither request was granted in the 104th Congress. In an effort to
         maximize the chances for success in obtaining needed resources from Congress, the
         Executive Committee, after consulting with the Judicial Resources Committee,
         recommended that the Judicial Conference pursue legislation to extend or convert the
         eleven existing temporary judgeships separately from any new judgeship requests. The
         Judicial Conference approved the recommendation.




                  The Executive Committee approved, on behalf of the Judicial Conference, the
          following resolution honoring Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist's tenth anniversary
          as presiding officer:

                            On the occasion of his Tenth Anniversary as Chief Justice of
                    the United States and as Presiding Officer of this body, the Judicial
                    Conference of the United States pays tribute to the Honorable

                                          WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST

                    for his many notable accomplishments in judicial administration,

                            The distinguished leadership of the Chief Justice has served to
                    reshape and strengthen the operation of the Judicial Conference and its
                    committees in meeting current and anticipated challenges. Significant
                                                                            September 17, 1996


        among the many achievements under his leadership is the study of the
        operation of the Judicial Conference and its committees shortly after
        his appointment as Chief Justice in 1986. The results of the year-long
        study produced structural and procedural revisions enabling the
        Conference to operate more openly and efficiently. The authority of
        the Executive Committee was strengthened, and for the first time, the
        Executive Committee chair was permitted to preside over the Judicial
        Conference in the absence of the Chief Justice. Conference and
        committee procedures were made familiar to all as agendas, calendars,
        and notifications of actions taken were widely distributed. The
        institution of term limits on committee service allowed greater
        participation in committee activities, and -- through the conscious
        efforts of the Chief Justice in making his appointments -- resulted in
        committee composition and leadership that is representative of the
        diverse make-up of the entire federal judiciary. In addition, Chief
        Justice Rehnquist has been inclusive in maintaining an open door to
        the leaders of the three national organizations of judicial officers and
        broadening participation by bankruptcy and magistrate judges on
        Judicial Conference committees.

                 Judges throughout the country greatly appreciate the
        willingness of Chief Justice Rehnquist to become personally involved
        in major issues affecting the Third Branch. For example, he took the
        leadership role in 1989 on the issue of judicial pay and was
        instrumental in the resolution of the judiciary's appropriations crisis in
        fiscal year 1996.

               The members of the Judicial Conference express their warmest
        and heartfelt congratulations and sincere appreciation to Chief Justice
        Rehnquist for his strong, inspired leadership over the past ten years.
        We look forward to our continued association and anticipate additional
        achievements in the administration of justice under his tenure.



        On recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Judicial Conference
adopted the following resolution in recognition of the substantial contributions made
by the Conference Committee chairs who completed their terms of service on
October 1, 1996:
Judicial Conference of the United States


                             The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
                     appreciation, respect and admiration the following judicial officers:

                                           HONORABLE GILBEHT S. MERRITT
                                                 Executive Committee

                                            HONORABLE H. TED MILBURN
                                           Committee on the Administrative Office

                                     HONORABLE PAUL A. MAGNUSON
                             Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System

                                    HONORABLE MARYANNE TRUMP BARRY
                                          Committee on Criminal Law

                                              HONORABLE PAUL MANNES
                                           Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules

                                  HONORABLE PATRICK E. HIGGINBOTHAM
                                      Advisory Committee on Civil Rules

                                           HONORABLE RALPH K. WINTER
                                           Advisory Committee on Evidence Rules

                                        HONORABLE ROBEHT E. COWEN
                                       Committee on Security, Space and Facilities

                              Appointed as committee chairmen by Chief Justice Rehnquist,
                     these outstanding jurists have played a vital role in the administration
                     of the federal court system. These judges served with distinction as
                     leaders of their Judicial Conference committees while, at the same
                     time, continuing to perform in their regular capacities as judges in their
                     own courts. They have set a standard of skilled leadership and earned
                     our deep respect and sincere gratitude for their innumerable
                     contributions. We acknowledge with appreciation their commitment
                     and dedicated service to the Judicial Conference and to the entire
                     federal judiciary.
                                                                            September 17, 1996




PROPOSEDCOMMISSIONTO STUDY          AND ALIGNMENT
                         THE STRUCTURE          OF
THE COURTSOF APPEALS

        Proposed legislation (S. 956, 104th Congress) would have established a
commission to study "the structure and alignment of the federal courts of appeals with
particular reference to the Ninth Circuit." The Commission was also to have made
recommendations to the President and the Congress for changes in circuit boundaries.
On recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed by
mail ballot concluded on May 6, 1996, to take no position on the legislation.




         In March 1996, the Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the
Security, Space and Facilities Committee to take no position on S. 1005, the Public
Buildings Reform Act of 1996 (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 35). The Security, Space and
Facilities Committee was delegated the authority to work with the Director of the
Administrative Office and the Executive Committee to see that the judiciary's concerns
were addressed if further congressional action occurred. After the bill passed the
Senate without opportunity for input from the judicial branch, the Security, Space and
Facilities Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference

a.     Seek to have the bill amended so that the judiciary can continue to establish its
       own design guides and housing standards;

b.     Advise Congress that because of the increases in caseload and the role of the
       judicial branch in the administration of justice, it is unlikely that the judicial
       branch will be able to contribute significantly to an overall government-wide
        space reduction effort; and

c.      Seek clarification so that the Supreme Court and the Thurgood Marshall
        Federal Judiciary Building occupied by the judicial branch on Capitol Hill in
        Washington, D.C. are excluded from the legislation.

        The Executive Committee concurred in the recommendation and determined to
conduct a mail ballot of the Judicial Conference, with the approval of the Chief
Justice. In a ballot concluded on July 2, 1996, the Conference approved the Security,
Space and Facilities Committee's recommendation.
Judicial Conjerence ojthe United States




                   There are currently tens of thousands of breast implant liability cases pending
          in the federal courts. Two judges, before whom significant numbers of breast implant
          cases are pending, requested contract funds to create panels of independent expert
          witnesses to provide neutral expert testimony on the numerous scientific issues
          presented in these cases. The judges expressed hope that the conclusions and
          testimony of these experts would be used by judges in other breast implant litigation,
          which could avoid significant discovery expenses and lead to quicker settlements.
          After obtaining comments fiom the chairs of the Budget, Rules of Practice and
          Procedure, and Court Administration and Case Management Committees and the chair
          of the Multidistrict Litigation Panel, the Director of the Administrative Office, in
          consultation with the chair of the Executive Committee and with permission fiom the
          Chief Justice, polled the Judicial Conference as to whether one or both requests,
          treated as pilot programs, should be funded by the judiciary. In a mail ballot
          concluded on August 2, 1996, the Conference approved funding for one of the judges
          to establish an expert witness panel.




                   At its March 1996 session, the Judicial Conference referred a proposal by the
          Attorney General of the United States regarding universal pretrial drug testing to the
          Committee on Criminal Law for consideration and report to the Executive Committee.
          The Executive Committee was authorized by the Conference to act on the matter on
          the Conference's behalf (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 17). After considering the position of the
          Criminal Law Committee, which neither opposed nor endorsed judicial participation in
          the drug testing initiative, the Executive Committee unanimously agreed to participate
          in the initiative and to authorize the Administrative Office to enter into a memorandum
          of understanding (MOU) with the Department of Justice for a pretrial drug testing
          program, so long as the Department of Justice funds the program and participation by
          individual districts is voluntary. The Executive Committee subsequently approved an
          MOU which had been negotiated with the Department of Justice.




                  On September 17, 1996, following the Judicial Conference session, the
          Executive Committee approved proposed fiscal year 1997 financial plans for the
          Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners, and
          Court Security appropriations accounts, assuming enactment of an appropriations bill at
                                                                                   September 17, 1996



        a level between the House and Senate allowances. The plans also include additional
        funding available from new fee collections and carryover. The Executive Committee
        agreed that the plan would be an interim one until a full-year appropriation were
        enacted2 and, should there be a continuing resolution, determined that initial
        allotments would be made to court units of 25 percent of the Salaries and Expenses
        financial plan amounts and an initial allocation would be made to federal defender
        organizations of 25 percent of the Defender Services financial plan amounts. In the
        event the judiciary failed to receive new appropriations at the start of fiscal year 1997,
        the Committee agreed to authorize the continuation of judicial branch operations from
        all available sources of fees and "no-year" appropriations, under such guidance and
        direction as the Director of the Administrative Office shall deem appropriate.




                The Executive Committee:

                Approved a Judicial Resources Committee recommendation to authorize an
                extension of voluntary early retirement authority in fiscal year 1996 beyond
                reductions in staff resulting from organizational restructuring or budget
                limitations;

                On recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, revised the
                compensatory time policy for court employees with respect to travel on official
                business outside of normal working hours, giving local court units more
                flexibility;

                Approved a strategic business plan presented by the Administrative Office
                Committee entitled The Administration of Justice: A Strategic Business Plan
               for the Federal Judiciary produced by the Administrative Office as required by
                Congress;

                Agreed to ask the Judicial Resources Committee to undertake a serious
                examination of an idea regarding the allocation of judgeships, whereby the
                Judicial Conference would be authorized to place judgeships in districts where
                they were most needed;



    'On September 30, 1996, a fiscal year 1997 judiciary appropriations bill was enacted
which was slightly higher than the midpoint amount utilized in the approved financial plans.
The additional funds are placed in reserve to be reviewed by the Executive Committee at a
later time.
Judicial Conference of the United States


                     Revised the fiscal year 1996 national spending plans to include (a) $1.75
                     million to equip courthouses with satellite downlink equipment for receiving
                     educational and administrative video broadcasts; and (b) $16,094,000
                     transferred from the Crime Trust Fund to the Defender Services account to
                     cover an increase in projected caseloads and costs for panel attorneys of
                     federal capital prosecutions. In addition, the Committee approved additional
                     fiscal year 1997 funds ($138,000) for completion of ongoing genderlrace bias
                     studies, provided funds are available and the studies are completed by the end
                     of fiscal year 1997;

                     Approved an exception to the relocation policy for a judge who had acted in
                     reasonable reliance upon a belief that his reimbursement had already been
                     approved;

                     Agreed to inform bankruptcy judges in the districts requesting additional
                     bankruptcy judgeships that Senator Charles E. Grassley was seeking travel
                     information on judges in those distticts;

                     Determined to (a) communicate with the Chair of the Judicial Branch
                     Committee regarding the issue of receipt by an Article I11 judge of credit
                     toward retirement for previous service as a magistrate or bankruptcy judge;
                     (b) ask the Judicial Branch Committee to reexamine all arrangements for travel
                     of senior judges; and (c) request that the Judicial Resources Committee
                     consider possible methods of giving judicial secretaries bonuses or awards and
                     reexamine the issue of a pay raise for secretaries of chief district judges who
                     serve as administrative assistants.


COMMITTEE                   OFFICE
        ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE

                AND LOANREPORT
          SAVINGS

                   Under 28 U.S.C. $ 604(a)(24), the Director of the Administrative Office is
          required to report to Congress annually the impact of the savings and loan crisis on the
          federal courts. Because of the small proportion of major savings and loan cases now
          in the federal courts and because the data reported is available from other sources, the
          Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Committee on the
          Administrative Office that it seek an appropriate legislative vehicle to revise the statute
          to eliminate the savings and loan reporting requirement from the duties of the Director
          of the Administrative Office.
                                                                             September 17, 1996



COMMITTEEON AUTOMATION
AND TECHNOLOGY



            The Committee on Automation and Technology has approved core
   requirements of an Information Systems Architecture (ISA). designed to achieve
   connectivity and integration among automated applications that must exchange and
   share information and to accommodate existing and future court applications and
   technologies in a modular, adaptable, and cost-effective manner. On recommendation
   of the Committee (modified at the Conference session), the Judicial Conference
   adopted a policy that all projects initiated by the Administrative Office for .national
   implementation or projects that are intended for multi-circuit use must conform with
   the ISA core requirements; adhere to the automation management process; fully
   integrate with other projects and products; and utilize existing communications and
   processing infrastructures of the ISA. This policy does not apply to applications or    .

   other automation projects developed for local use and/or projects or applications
   acquired with local funds. However, where such projects or applications (a) involve
   the sharing or exchange of data between courts within a circuit, or (b) involve data
   that by statute or policy of the Judicial Conference must be provided to the
   Administrative Office, integration and connectivity among all intended users must be
   achieved. In addition, the Conference acknowledged that the "Scope" of the ISA would
   be amended to conform with this policy, and that the following two additions would
   be made to the processing infrastructure: "Windows NT and NetWare" added to the
   Application Server(s) Operating System, and "Windows NT" added to the Desktop
   Operating Environment.




            The wide public dissemination of slip opinions electronically on court-
   maintained electronic bulletin boards and Internet sites has brought increased attention
   to the need for consistency in distributing both the original slip opinions and
   subsequent changes. On recommendation of the Automation and Technology
   Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to request each court of appeals to review
   its existing slip opinion dissemination procedures to ensure that (a) the electronic
   version of an opinion released on the court-maintained electronic bulletin board or
   Internet web site matches the text of the printed version of the opinion, and (b) all
   substantive changes to opinions are made available on the court's electronic public
   access service.
Judicial Conference of the United States



                   In August 1995, the judiciary awarded a computer-assisted legal research
          contract to the West Publishing Company for Westlaw services in the legal research,
          people and public records, and newspapers and journals categories. Lexis-Nexis was
          awarded a contract solely for the newspapers and journals category of service. After
          reviewing cost and usage data of the Nexis service, and in view of the availability of
          similar, but less expensive, services on Westlaw, the Automation and Technology
          Committee determined that access to Nexis should be limited to circuit library staff.
          The Judicial Conference slightly modified and approved the Committee's
          recommendation to limit access to Nexis services to library staff at circuit headquarters
          and satellite library locations beginning in fiscal year 1997.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADM-INISTRATION
OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM


                  The Bankruptcy Committee alternately conducts two types of national
          judgeship surveys to assist the Judicial Conference in fulfilling its statutory
          responsibilities of advising Congress on the number and allocation of bankruptcy
          judgeships: in odd-numbered years all districts are surveyed to evaluate requests for
          additional judgeships and in even-numbered years they are surveyed to determine if
          any authorized positions might be eliminated. In order to permit the judiciary to work
          with legislators over a full two-year congressional term, the Judicial Conference
          approved a Committee recommendation to change the schedule for completing the
          biennial surveys for evaluating additional bankruptcy judgeship requests from
          September to March of odd-numbered years. See also, infra, "Judgeship Surveys,"
          p. 60.




                  In early 1996, the Bankruptcy Committee conducted its continuing need
          survey, assessing the judicial workload for the bankruptcy judges in every district and
          performing on-site surveys in five districts where elimination of a bankruptcy
          judgeship would result in fewer than 1,000 case-weighted filings per judge for the
          remaining judges. Based on the results of this survey, the Committee recommended,
          and the Judicial Conference agreed, that the Conference take the following actions:

          a.         Recommend to Congress that no bankruptcy judgeship position be statutorily
                     eliminated;
                                                                           September 17, 1996


b.      Advise the appropriate circuit judicial councils to consider not filling vacancies
        that currently exist or may occur by reason of resignation, retirement, removal,
        or death in the following districts, unless there is a demonstrated need to do
        so, as more specifically provided in each judgeship survey report: the
        Northern District of Ohio, the Southern District of Ohio, the Northern District
        of Iowa, the Southern District of Iowa, and the District of Colorado; and

c.      Recommend to the Eighth Circuit Judicial Council that, if a vacancy occurs in
        the State of Iowa for any of the four enumerated reasons and that vacancy is
        not filled, it authorize the three remaining judges in Iowa to administer cases
        within both districts.

         The Bankruptcy Committee also recommended a minor change to the
judiciary's present bankruptcy judicial resource management system, which, in the
view of the Committee, already works very well. The Judicial Conference approved
the recommendation, authorizing the use of a system through which the chair of the
Bankruptcy Committee and the Director of the Administrative Office are to be notified
by each circuit before the process is initiated to fill a bankruptcy judgeship vacancy so
that relevant, up-to-date data can be provided to the circuit to assist with its decision
on whether to delay filling the vacancy.




        On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, the Judicial Conference
approved amendments to the Regulations Governing the Ad Hoc Recall of Retired
Bankruptcy Judges and the Regulations Governing the Extended Recall Service of
Retired Bankruptcy Judges to eliminate the need for funding approval from the
Administrative Office to seek a recall. This action is consistent with other recent
budget decentralization decisions. Specifically, the amendments will-

a.      Eliminate section 6 of the ad hoc recall regulations and section 9 of the
        extended service recall regulations, both of which require that a circuit council
        obtain funding approval from the Administrative Office before it may recall a
        retired bankruptcy judge;

b.      Strike from section 10 of the ad hoc recall regulations the words "and the
        Director of the Administrative Office," thereby eliminating the requirement
        that the Administrative Office approve the employment of a secretary and/or a
        law clerk by a recalled judge; and
Judicial Conference of the United States


          c.         Strike from section 14 of the extended service recall regulations the words
                     "and the Director," thereby eliminating the requirement that the Director of the
                     Administrative Office approve the provision of office and courtroom facilities
                     for a bankruptcy judge who is recalled for extended service. See also, infra,
                     "Magistrate Judge Recall Regulations," pp. 64-65.


COMMITTEE
        ON THE BUDGET



                   In recognition of congressional hnding constraints, the Budget Committee
          recommended a fiscal year 1998 budget request which is lower than the hnding level
          proposed by the program committees. The Judicial Conference approved the
          alternative budget request for fiscal year 1998, subject to amendments necessary as a
          result of new legislation, actions of the Judicial Conference, or other reasons the
          Director of the Administrative Office considers necessary and appropriate.




          CODEOF CONDUCT
                       FOR UNITED
                                STATESJUDGES

                    On recommendation of the Committee on Codes of Conduct, the Judicial
          Conference approved the following technical revision to canon 3C(3)(a) of the Code of
          Conduct for United States Judges, to clarifj which relatives are within the third degree
          of relationship, and deleted the existing 3C(3)(a) commentary (new language is in
          italics):

                     (3)       For purposes of this section:

                               (a)         the degree of relationship is calculated according to the civil
                                           law system; the following relatives are within the thid d e p e
                                           of relationship: parent, child, grandpa~nt,grandchild, great
                                           grandpawnt, p a t grandchild, sister bmther; aunt, uncle,
                                           niece and nephew; the listed relatives include whole and half
                                           blood relatives and most step relatives[.]

                  The Conference also approved a Committee recommendation to revise canon
          5C(4) of the Code of Conduct for United States Judges, which addresses judges'
          acceptance of gifts. The technical revision deletes the existing 5C(4) language, which
                                                                             September 17, 1996


    is duplicative of section 5 of the Judicial Conference Ethics Reform Act gift
    regulations and substitutes the following:

           (4) A judge should not solicit or accept anything of value from anyone
           seeking official action from or doing business with the court or other entity
           served by the judge, or from anyone whose interests may be substantially
           affected by the performance or nonperformance of official duties; except that a
           judge may accept a gift as permitted by the Judicial Conference gift
           regulations. A judge should endeavor to prevent a member of a judge's family
           residing in the household from soliciting or accepting a gift except to the
           extent that a judge would be permitted to do so by the Judicial Conference gift
           regulations.




           Since its last report to the Conference in March 1996, the Committee on Codes
    of Conduct received 38 new written inquiries and issued 38 written advisory responses.
    The average response time for inquiries was 19 days. The Chairman received and
    responded to 43 telephonic inquiries. In addition, individual Committee members
    responded to 51 inquiries from their colleagues.


COMMITTEEON COURTADMINISTRATION
AND CASEMANAGEMENT



            At the direction of the Court Administration and Case Management
    Committee, a one-year study of the federal courts' administrative support structures,
    including personnel administration, training, financial management, budget
    management, automation management, contracts and procurement, property
    management, and space and facilities management, was conducted by the National
    Academy of Public Administration (NAPA). On recommendation of the Committee,
    which believes the report offers information helpful to courts in considering ways to
    improve the delivery of administrative services, the Judicial Conference referred the
    report to the Judicial Resources, Criminal Law, Automation and Technology, and
    Bankruptcy committees and to the Economy Subcommittee for consideration and such
    action within their respective jurisdictions as they might consider appropriate. The
    Conference further agreed to encourage all courts to examine their administrative
    services delivery systems, consider the applicability of alternative administrative
Judicial Conference of the United States


          models discussed in the report, and, where appropriate, adopt more efficient structures
          for the provision of administrative services.


          CAMERAS
                IN             THE    COURTROOM

                   The Judicial Conference approved a Court Administration and Case
          Management Committee recommendation that it adopt conforming revisions to the
          "Cameras in the Courtroom" policy and commentary to be printed in Volume I,
          Chapter 111, Part E of the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Pmcedu~s.These revisions
          reflect Judicial Conference actions taken in September 1994 (JCUS-SEP 94, pp. 46-47)
          and March 1996 (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 17).




                   After undertaking a review of the miscellaneous fees set by the Judicial
          Conference pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1913, 1914, 1926, and 1930, the Court
          Administration and Case Management Committee recommended that the Judicial
          Conference raise certain miscellaneous fees to account for inflation and rising court
          costs. The Judicial Conference approved the recommendation to raise miscellaneous
          fees as set forth below, provided that legislation is enacted to permit the judiciary to
          retain the resulting increase in fees:

                         -
                         Fee                       Current Amount           Raised Amount

          Power of Attorney
          Filing and Indexing Misc. Papers
          Misdemeanor Appeal
          Registration of Foreign Judgment
          Tape Duplication
          Microfilm/Microfiche
          Mailing Labels
          Record Search
          Certification
          Returned Checks
          Reproduction of Record
          Ct. of Fed. Claims Filing Fee
          Ct. of Fed. Claims List of OrdersIOps
                                                                                    September 17, 1996




                   FEE- CUBANLIBERTY
        MISCELLANEOUS              AND DEMOCRATIC
                                               SOLIDARITY
        ACT

                  The Cuban Liberty andDemocratic Solidarity Act of 1996 (Public Law No.
        104-114) authorizes United States citizens claiming ownership of property confiscated
        by the Cuban government on or after January 1, 1959, to sue any "person" who
         traffic^"^ in that property. The Act requires the Judicial Conference to establish a fee
        for filing these actions "at a level sufficient to recover the costs to the court of actions
        brought under this section." The Judicial Conference approved a Court Administration
        and Case Management Committee recommendation that, pursuant to the revenue-
        neutral mandate imposed by Congress, a miscellaneous fee of $4,180 be established for
        cases filed under this Act.




                Item 11 of the miscellaneous fee schedule for bankruptcy courts promulgated
        pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 6 1930(b) governs fees for transcription of a record of a
        bankruptcy proceeding. The Judicial Conference, on recommendation of the Court
        Administration and Case Management Committee, approved an amendment to this
        item as follows to reflect the elimination of the referees' salary and expense fund
        (language to be omitted is lined-through):

                 (11) for transcribing a record of any proceeding by a regularly employed
                 member of the bankruptcy court staff who is not entitled by statute to retain
                 the transcript fees for his or her own account, a charge shall be made at the
                 same rate and conditions established by the Judicial Conference for transcripts
                 prepared and sold to parties by official court reporters. The party requesting
                 the transcript shall pay the charge to the clerk of the bankruptcy court for

                *deposit to the credit

                 the Treasury
                                               . .                                             of

               .9-                   If the trustee in bankruptcy or the debtor in possession
                 requests a transcript in the performance of his official duties, the charge shall
                 be paid from the estate to the extent there is an estate realized.



   3
    Persons who "traffic" include those who knowingly purchase, sell, transfer, use, or benefit
from confiscated property without the authorization of any U.S. national who holds claim to
property.
Judicial Conference of the United States




                   The Judicial Conference approved a Court Administration and Case
          Management Committee recommendation to support proposed legislation amending
          28 U.S.C. § 125 to provide that places of holding court in the Northern Division of the
          District of Utah include Ogden and Salt Lake City and that places of holding court in
          the Central Division of the District of Utah include Salt Lake City, Provo, and St.
          George. This action, requested by the court and approved by the circuit judicial
          council, is taken in reliance on the court's representation that it is budget-neutral.




                   The Judicial Conference approved a Court Administration and Case
          Management Committee recommendation to change Question 10 of the juror
          qualification form by substituting "Native American" for "American Indian." This
          change should assist the courts in gathering correct information regarding the
          percentage of Native Americans in their master jury wheels.




                    The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it has been assisting the
          Committee on Court Administration and Case Management with the development of
          criteria for acquiring and releasing space for probation and pretrial services offices.
          The Committee also reported that it had received preliminary results of a survey of
          district judges and chief probation officers concerning the sentencing guidelines. The
          survey findings, when evaluation is completed, will provide a major source of current
          information regarding the operation of the sentencing guidelines.




                 As increasing numbers of defendants are charged with federal offenses that
          may be punishable by death, courts have requested guidance with respect to the
          appointment and compensation of counsel in cases in which the defendant faces the
                                                                         September 17, 1996



risk of a death sentence at the beginning of the case but subsequent developments
eliminate that possibility In order to encourage flexibility in balancing the
considerations relevant to appointment and compensation of counsel in such cases, the
Committee on Defender Services recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved,
the following text as new subparagraph 6.01 B(2) of the Guidelinesfor the
Administration of the Criminal Justice Act (redesignating the existing subparagraph B
as B(1)):

        B(2) If, following the appointment of counsel in a case in which a defendant
        was charged with an offense that may be punishable by death, it is determined
        that the death penalty will not be sought, the court may consider the question
        of the number of counsel needed and the rate of compensation needed for the
        duration of the proceeding.

        After considering whether the number of counsel initially appointed is
        necessary to ensure effective representation or to avoid disruption of the
        proceeding, the court may continue such appointments or make an appropriate
        reduction.

       After considering the need to compensate appointed counsel fairly, taking into
       account the commitment of time and resources appointed counsel has made
       and will continue to make, the court may continue to pay the rate previously
       approved or prospectively reduce such rate.




        Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference.(JCUS-MAR 89,
pp. 16-17), the Defender Services Committee approved additional funding for fiscal
year 1996 for Federal Public Defender organizations in the amount of $567,400 and
for a Community Defender organization in the amount of $66,800.




        Citing problems of white-collar crime in the United States territory of
American Samoa, the Department of Justice, along with the Department of the Interior,
is seeking legislation to establish federal judicial jurisdiction in this unincorporated
Judicial Conference of the United States


          territory, which is located 2,300 miles soutllwest of Hawaii. On recommendation of
          the Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction, the Judicial Conference took the position
          that if Congress determines to establish federal judicial jurisdiction in the territory of
          American Samoa and to commit sufficient resources to create such jurisdiction, then
          the Conference endorses the creation of an Article I district court in American Samoa.
          To establish such court, the Conference encourages the utilization of existing judicial
          and administrative resources to the fullest extent possible. In addition, the Conference
          suggests that any legislation providing such jurisdiction allow sufficient time following
          enactment for the judicial branch to implement the Act's requirements before cases
          may be brought.




                   The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of July 15, 1996, the
          Committee had received 2,839 financial disclosure reports and certifications for the
          calendar year 1995, including 1,178 reports and certifications from justices and Article
           I11 judges, 324 from bankruptcy judges, 450 from magistrate judges, and 887 from
          judicial employees.




                  The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that from January 1,
          1996, to June 30, 1996, a total of 83 intercircuit assignments, undertaken by 67 Article
          111 judges, were processed and recommended by the Committee and approved by the
          Chief Justice. In addition, the Committee aided courts requesting assistance in
          identifying judges willing to take assignments.




                  The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported that the papers
          presented at the 1995 Conference of the Supreme Courts of the Americas will be
           .   .
                                                                             September 17, 1996


   published in the August edition of the Saint Louis University Law Review in Spanish
   and English. The Committee further reported on a number of international rule of law
   programs held in 1996, including those involving Egypt, China, Russia, and Latin
   American countries.


        ON THE JL~ICIAL
COMMITTEE             BRANCH
   TRANSPORTATION        JUDGES
              FOR DISABLED

            Current judiciary policy outlined in the Guide to Judiciary Policies and
   Pmcedu~s,Volume 111, Chapter XV (Judges' Travel Regulations) does not provide
   guidance on the question of home-to-work transportation for judicial officers who
   might be disabled. On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
   Judicial Conference approved an amendment to the "Travel Regulations for United
    States Justices and Judges," published in the Guide, to authorize a circuit chief judge
   to provide home-to-work transportation for a disabled judge where the circuit chief
   judge determines that "compelling operational considerations make such transportation
   essential to the conduct of official business."




             On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, which reviewed
   requests and justifications for additional district court judgeships utilizing a weighted
   caseload formula and considering any special factors, the Judicial Conference approved
   transmittal to Congress of a request for an additional 2 1 permanent and 12 temporary
   district judgeships. This request, which includes most of the judgeships which had
   been approved by the Conference in 1994 (JCUS-SEP 94, pp. 53-54), is in lieu of the
   Judicial Conference's 1994 recommendations, but supplements the recommendation for
   conversion or extension of eleven temporary judgeships approved by the Conference in
   March 1996 (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 24; see also, supra, "Article I11 Judgeships," p. 42).
   Judgeships are recommended in the following locations:
Judicial Conference of the United States


                     Permanent Judgeships                    Temporary Judgeships

                     New York, Eastern (3)                  New York, Northern (I)
                     North Carolina, Western (2)            New York, Western (1)
                     Arizona (2)                            South Carolina (1)
                     California, Eastern (1)                Louisiana, Middle (1)
                     California, Southern (2)               Kentucky, Eastern (1)
                     Nevada (2)                             Tennessee, Eastern (1)
                     Oregon (1)                             Indiana, Southern (1)
                     Colorado (1)                           California, Eastern (1)
                     New Mexico (1)                         Washington, Western (I)
                     Alabama, Middle (1)                    Colorado (1)
                     Florida, Middle (3)                    New Mexico (1)
                     Florida, Southern (2)                  Florida, Middle (1)




                  Under the current schedule for the biennial survey of judgeship needs, final
          recommendations are developed by the Judicial Conference in September of even-
          numbered years, and recommendations for additional judgeships are provided to the
          Congress at the end of the second session of Congress or held until the first session of
          the new Congress, when the caseload data supporting the recommendations are over a
          year old. So that the process would better correspond to the congressional calendar,
          the Judicial Conference approved a Judicial Resources Committee recommendation to
          change the schedule for completion of the biennial survey of judgeship needs from
          September of even-numbered years to March of odd-numbered years. See also, supra,
          "Bankruptcy Judgeship Surveys," p. 50.




                  On recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, which had consulted
          with the chief circuit judges, the Judicial Conference approved a judgeship survey
          process for the courts of appeals, as follows:

          a.        Courts will be asked to submit requests for additional judgeships to the
                    Subcommittee on Judicial Statistics, provided that at least a majority of the
                    active members of the court have approved submission of the request; no
                    recommendations will be made without a request from a majority of the
                    members of the court.
                                                                              September 17, 1996


b.        Each court requesting additional judgeships will be asked to provide a
          complete justification for the request including the potential impact on its own
          court and the district courts within the circuit of not getting the additional
          judgeships. In any instance where a court's request cannot be supported
          through the standard noted below, the court will be requested to provide
           supporting justification as to why the standard should not apply to its requast.

c.        The Subcommittee will also consider various factors in evaluating judgeship
          requests, including a formula based on a standard of 500 filings (with removal
      '   of reinstated cases) per panel and with pro se appeals weighted as one-third of
          a case. The formula will serve as one factor in the assessment of judgeship
          needs in the courts of appeals; it will not be applied inflexibly. Some other
          factors which may be considered are the geography of a circuit, the median
          time from filing to disposition for appeals, and recent legislative changes.

d.        Initially, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals and the Federal Circuit Court of
          Appeals will be excluded from this process because of their unique caseloads.




         Current Judicial Conference policy authorizes a court to retain chambers staff
for up to a total of 2 10 days (seven months) after a judge's death or an otherwise
unanticipated vacancy (JCUS-MAR 88, pp. 32-33; JCUS-MAR 89, pp. 23-24). To
retain staff after the first 30 days, the affected court is required to get approval of the
Administrative Office. Retention of staff beyond 210 days is fbnded from allocations
made to the circuits for temporary emergency law clerks and secretaries. Recognizing
that the need to retain chambers staff is determined primarily by the court's
circumstances at the time the unexpected vacancy occurs, the Judicial Conference
approved a Judicial Resources Committee recommendation to revise the policies for
retention of chambers staff upon the death of a judge or other unanticipated vacancy in
a judgeship to eliminate the role of the Administrative Office, as follows:

a.        Authority to retain staff for up to 90 days will be given to courts for
          incumbents of positions on chambers staff in instances of an unanticipated
          vacancy of a judgeship. One additional period of up to 120 days beyond the
          original 90-day period will be allowed upon certification by the chief judge of
          the affected court to the circuit judicial council that additional staff resources
          are necessary.
Judicipl Conference of the United Sfates


          b.         Additional staffing needs beyond the 120-day extension will be hnded from
                     allocations to the circuits for temporary law clerks and secretaries, using
                     established procedures.




                  On recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, the Judicial
          Conference agreed to revise the salary matchingladvanced in-step appointment policy
          in Subchapter 1338.2, Chapter X, Volume I-C of the Guide to Judiciary Policies and
          Pmceduws. The revision will permit quarters allowance and subsistence allowance to
          be considered as part of base pay for all prospective candidates for employment with
          the court (chambers and non-chambers positions) whose immediate previous
          employment was with a branch of the uniformed services of the United States and who
          are not eligible for military retirement.




                 At its September 1981 session, the Judicial Conference adopted a policy that
         allowed bankruptcy judges serving on bankruptcy appellate panels (BAPs) who
         participate in 50 or more appeals per year to employ a second law clerk (JCUS-SEP
         81, p. 71). Until recently, only the Ninth Circuit had established a BAl? In fiscal
         year 1996, after the enactment of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994 (Public Law
       . No. 103-394), five circuits -- the First, Second, Sixth, Eighth, and Tenth -- have
         decided to establish BAPs. Concerned with projected future budgetary constraints and
         uncertain about the validity of the threshold of 50 appeals, the Judicial Resources
         Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference rescind its 1981 decision to
         authorize a second law clerk for any bankruptcy judge serving on a BAP who
         participates in 50 or more appeals per year. The Conference approved the
         recommendation. This decision does not apply to the Ninth Circuit, which has an
         established caseload and will maintain its current staffing level.




                  The Judicial Conference approved a Judicial Resources Committee
          recommendation to revise Subchapter 1451.2, Chapter X, Volume I-C, of the Guide to
          Judiciary Policies and Pmceduws that deals with the Employee Recognition Program.
          The revision allows for an effective cash and honorary awards program in a
          decentralized environment, permits more flexibility in the use of these awards, and
                                                                           September 17, 1996


provides continued guidance to court unit managers on how to reward effectively
employees who enhance the mission of the judiciary.




         On recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, the Judicial
Conference approved requests for new positions for fiscal year 1998 for the circuit
executives' offices, as follows: one permanent position in the Second Circuit, three
permanent positions in the Fourth Circuit, two permanent positions in the Tenth
Circuit, and one new three-year temporary position in the D.C. Circuit. These
positions are within the overall approved staffing ceiling of 217 total positions for all
circuit executives' offices.




         Based on established criteria, the Judicial Resources Committee recommended,
and the Judicial Conference approved, one court interpreter position for the Eastern
District of New York for fiscal year 1998.




        The Judicial Conference has approved a staffing methodology for the appellate
court settlement conference (or preargument) attorney offices (JCUS-MAR 95, p. 22)
and a cap on the growth of the conference program over a five-year period (JCUS-
SEP 94, pp. 56-57), with requests for positions in excess of the cap to be referred to
the Judicial Conference. On recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, the
Conference approved one support staff position (which was in excess of the cap) for
the Eleventh Circuit's settlement conference attorney office for fiscal year 1997.
Funding is to be provided at the appropriate Cost Control Monitoring System national
average salary level.




        The Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (CAA) (Public Law No. 104-1)
requires the judiciary to submit to Congress by December 3 1, 1996, a report on the
application of 11 federal employment and workplace laws to the judicial branch. The
Judicial Conference, on recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee,
approved a draft report for submission to Congress by the Chief Justice in fulfillment
Judicial Conference of the United States


          of the charge contained in the CAA. In addition, the Conference delegated to the
          Director of the Administrative Office, in consultation with the Judicial Resources
          Committee, the authority to make such changes to the report as may be necessary in
          order to ensure that it adequately reflects relevant events that may occur during the
          interval between Judicial Conference action on the report and the submission of the
          report to Congress. The Conference also agreed that the report would remain
          confidential until its submission to Congress.




                   In fiscal year 1996, early retirement authority, granted by the Off~ceof
          Personnel Management (OPM) and approved by the Judicial Conference, proved to be
          a usehl management tool for many court units. In anticipation of OPM's approval of
          early retirement authority for the judiciary for fiscal year 1997, the Judicial
          Conference, on recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, authorized all
          court units to offer early retirement in fiscal year 1997 to eligible employees in order
          to facilitate reorganization as a result of budget restrictions or workload changes or for
          other good management reasons.




                  The Veterans' Employment Opportunities Act, H.R. 3586 (104th Congress),
          would extend veterans' preference coverage to many judiciary appointments. For a
          number of reasons, including the administrative cost and difficulty of applying
          competitive service appointment procedures to the judicial branch, the Judicial
          Conference approved a Judicial Resources Committee recommendation that it support
          the concept of promoting employment opportunities for veterans within the judicial
          branch, all other qualifications being equal, but strongly oppose preference laws such
          as those proposed in H.R. 3586.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE MAGISTRATEJUDGESSYSTEM


                  The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Magistrate Judges
          Committee to amend the Regulations of the Judicial Confe~nceEstablishing
          Standads and Pmceduivs for the Recall of United States Magistrate Judges and the
          Regulations of the Judicial Confe~nceof the United States Governing the Extended
                                                                             September 1 7, 1996


Sewice Recall of Retired United States Magistrate Judges. The amendments would
eliminate the requirement for Administrative Office approval of funding prior to
(a) implementation of the recall of a retired magistrate judge and (b) circuit judicial
council authorization of a secretary andlor law clerk for a recalled judge. See also,
supra, "Bankruptcy Judge Recall Regulations," pp. 5 1-52.




        After consideration of the report of the Committee on the Administration of
the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of the Director of the
Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the
Judicial Conference approved the following changes in salaries and arrangements for
full-time and part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact
are to be effective when appropriated funds are available.



Southern District of New York

1.      Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at White Plains;
        and

2.      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        other magistrate judge positions in the district.



Eastern District of Pennsylvania

        Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
        judge positions in the district.



District of Maryland

1.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Hagerstown
        from Level 6 ($10,320 per annum) to Level 4 ($30,960 per annum);

2.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Salisbury
        from Level 7 ($5,160 per annum) to Level 6 ($10,320 per annum); and
Judicial Conference of the United States


          3.         Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
                     magistrate judge positions in the district.

          Eastern District of North Carolina

                     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Greenville
                     from Level 4 ($30,960 per annum) to Level 2 ($51,600 per annum).



          Middle District of Louisiana

           1.        Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Baton Rouge;
                     and

          2.         Made no change in the location or arrangements of the other magistrate judge
                     positions in the district.

          Western District of Texas

                     Authorized an additional part-time magistrate judge position at Del Rio at
                     Salary Level 2 ($5 1,600 per annum), effective October 1, 1996, or as soon as
                     funds are available.



          Western District of Arkansas

                     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                     magistrate judge positions in the district.

          Southern District of Iowa

                     Authorized a part-time magistrate judge position at Davenport at Salary Level
                     2 ($5 1,600 per annum), effective October 1, 1996, or as soon as hnds are
                     available, and discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at
                     Burlington (or Davenport) upon the appointment of the new magistrate judge.

          District of South Dakota

                     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Pierre from
                     Level 3 ($41,280 per annum) to Level 2 ($5 1,600 per annum).
                                                                         September 17, 1996




Eastern District of California

1.      Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Sacramento;
        and

2.      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        other magistrate judge positions in the district.

Central District of California

1.      Authorized one additional full-time magistrate judge position at Los Angeles;

2.      Authorized one additional full-time magistrate judge position at Los Angeles
        or Santa Ana;

3.      Authorized one additional full-time magistrate judge position at Los Angeles
        or Riverside;

4.      Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at San Bernardino upon
        the expiration of the current incumbent's term on June 24, 1997;

5.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Barstow (or
        Victorville) from $11,968 per annum to Level 5 ($20,640 per annum);

6.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Santa Barbara
        (or Ventura) from Level 5 ($20,640 per annum) to Level 4 ($30,960 per
        annum); and

7.      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        other magistrate judge positions in the district.

District of Idaho

       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
       judge positions in the district.
Judicial Conference of the United States




          Eastern District of Oklahoma

                     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at McAlester
                     from Level 6 ($10,320 per annum) to Level 4 ($30,960 per annum).

          Western District of Oklahoma

          1.         Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Enid; and

          2.         Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                     other magistrate judge positions in the district.



          Northern District of Florida

                     Retained the part-time magistrate judge position at Panama City at the current
                     Salary Level 5 ($20,640 per annum).




                   The accelerated funding program provides prompt magistrate judge assistance
          to judicial districts seriously affected by drug filings or the Civil Justice Reform Act
          (see JCUS-SEP 91, p. 67; JCUS-MAR 92, p. 79). On recommendation of the
          Magistrate Judges Committee, the Judicial Conference designated the magistrate judge
          positions at White Plains, New York; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Sacramento, California;
          Los Angeles, California; Los Angeles or Santa Ana, California; and Los Angeles or
          Riverside, California, for accelerated funding in fiscal year 1997.


COMMITTEETO REVIEWCIRCUITCOUNCIL
CONDUCTAND DISABILITY
                    ORDERS


                  The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders
          reported that it has completed its task of amending the Illustrative Rules Governing
                                                                         September 17, 1996


Complaints of Judicial Misconduct and Disability in light of recommendations
addressed to the judicial branch by the National Commission on Judicial Discipline
and Removal. The new version of the Rules will be published and distributed to the
courts, accompanied by other materials that may be useful to judges and court staff in
implementing the complaint procedure established by 28 U.S.C. § 372(c).




         The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the Judicial
Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1010 (Service of Involuntary
P-etition and Summons; Petition Commencing Ancillary Case), 1019 (Conversion of
Chapter 11 Reorganization Case, Chapter 12 Family Farmer's Debt Adjustment Case,
or Chapter 13 Individual's Debt Adjustment Case to Chapter 7 Liquidation case),
2002 (Notices to Creditors, Equity Security Holders, United States, and United States
Trustee), 2007.1 (Appointment of Trustee or Examiner in a Chapter 11 Reorganization
Case), 3014 (Election Under 8 111l(b) by Secured Creditor in Chapter 9 Municipality
or Chapter 11 Reorganization Case), 3017 (Court Consideration of Disclosure
Statement in Chapter 9 Municipality and Chapter 11 Reorganization Cases), 3018
(Acceptance or Rejection of Plan in a Chapter 9 Municipality or a Chapter 11
Reorganization Case), 3021 (Distribution Under Plan), 8001 (Manner of Taking
Appeal; Voluntary Dismissal), 8002 (Time for Filing Notice of Appeal), 9011 (Signing
of Papers; Representations to the Court; Sanctions; Verification and Copies of Papers),
and 9035 (Applicability of Rules in Judicial Districts in Alabama and North Carolina),
and proposed new Rules 1020 (Election to be Considered a Small Business in a
Chapter 11 Reorganization Case), 3017.1 (Court Consideration of Disclosure Statement
in a Small Business Case), 8020 (Damages and Costs for Frivolous Appeal), and 90 15
(Jury Trials). The proposed amendments and new rules were accompanied by
Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference approved the
amendments and the new rules for transmission to the Supreme Court for
consideration, with the recommendation that they be approved by the Court and
transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.




       The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the Judicial
Conference a proposed amendment to Civil Rule 9 (Pleading Special Matters) together
Judicial Conference of the United States


          with Committee notes explaining its purpose and intent. The Conference approved the
          amendment, authorizing its transmittal to the Supreme Court for consideration with the
          recommendation that it be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in
          accordance with the law.

                 The Judicial Conference disapproved a proposed amendment to Civil Rule 48
          (Number of Jurors - Participation in Verdict) which would have required the initial
          empaneling of a jury of twelve persons in all civil cases, in the absence of stipulation
          by counsel to a lesser number.




                  The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the Judicial
          Conference proposed amendments to Criminal Rule 16 (Discovery and Inspection).
          Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent were transmitted with the
          proposal. The Conference approved the amendments and authorized their transmittal
          to the Supreme Court for its consideration with the recommendation that they be
          adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.




                  The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the Judicial
          Conference proposed amendments to Evidence Rules 407 (Subsequent Remedial
          Measures), 801 (Definitions), 803(24) (Other Hearsay Exceptions; Availability of
          Declarant Immaterial), 804(b)(5) (Other Hearsay Exceptions; Declarant Unavailable),
          806 (Attacking and Supporting Credibility of Declarant), and proposed new Rules
          804(b)(6) (Hearsay Exceptions; Declarant Unavailable) and 807 (Residual Exception),
          together with Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Conference
          approved these amendments and the new rules and authorized their transmittal to the
          Supreme Court for its consideration with the recommendation that they be adopted by
          the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


COMMITTEE ON SECURITY,
SPACEAND FACILITIES


                 In March 1996, the Judicial Conference approved a space rental cost
          containment plan which provides that funds be given to courts that make specific
                                                                            September 17, 1996


management decisions to reduce their rent liability (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 35) and
includes development of an incentive program for courts or court units accruing
savings to the judiciary by releasing space. The Committee on Security, Space and
Facilities proposed an interim incentive program which would be subject to further
refinement, and it recommended guidelines to implement the program. The Judicial
Confereilce adopted the proposed interim space rental incentive program, which
includes a methodology for determining the savings in rental costs, and the
implementing guidelines.




         On recommendation of the Committee on Security, Space and Facilities, the
Judicial Conference approved an amendment to the United States Courts Design Guide
to clarify that a "circulation factor," i.e., a factor reflecting the space needed to move
from room to room, is not to be used to expand the maximum courtroom or chambers
size. The amendment would add the following sentence to the second full paragraph
at page 1-5 after the words "often referred to as usable space":

        The circulation factor is not to be applied to the interior of a
        courtroom, and is not meant to be applied to any other space, such as
        within the chambers suite, except as necessary hallway or circulation
        space created to provide access from one room or space to another.

         The Judicial Conference also approved a recommendation by the Committee
that certain technical, security-related revisions to Chapters 2, 3, 4, 12, 14, and 15 of
the Design Guide be made.




        The Judicial Conference approved the following resolution noting the death of
the Honorable Helen Wilson Nies of the United States Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit, a member of the Judicial Conference of the United States from 1990
to 1994.

                The Judicial Conference of the United States notes with
        sadness the death of the Honorable Helen Wilson Nies, on August 7,
        1996, in Henlopen Acres, Delaware.
Judicial Conference of the United States


                             Judge Nies served with distinction as a Judge of the United
                     States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals beginning in June 1980,
                     and assumed the position of Circuit Judge of the Court of Appeals for
                     the Federal Circuit when it was created in 1982. She served as the
                     Court's second Chief Judge from June 1990 to March 1994, and took
                     senior status on November 1, 1995. She is remembered by her
                     colleagues as an industrious judge and a caring friend who promoted
                     collegiality in the legal profession.

                              Judge Nies's rewarding career included both private practice
                     and federal service in Washington, D.C. She was known for her loyal,
                     faithful and unselfish efforts to improve the administration of justice
                     and for a lifetime of overall leadership in the field of intellectual
                     property law.

                             Judge Nies also served on the Committee on the Bicentennial
                     of the Constitution where she made important contributions toward the
                     promotion of ceremonial and educational activities within the Judicial
                     Branch to commemorate the Bicentennial of the Constitution.

                              The members of the Judicial Conference convey their deepest
                     sympathies to Judge Nies's family and request that this Resolution be
                     sent to her widower, John D. Nies, as a sign of their affection and
                     respect.




                  All of the foregoing recommendations which require the expenditure of funds
          for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to the
          availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the Conference might establish
          for the use of available resources.
                                                                        September 17, 1996




        Except as otherwise specified, the Conference authorized the immediate release
of matters considered by this session where necessary for legislative or administrative
action.




                                               Chief Justice of the
                                               Presiding
