REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIALCONFERENCE
OF THE U   mS m s

March 12,1996


            The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington, D.C.,
     on March 12, 1996, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the United States issued
     under 28 U.S.C. 5 33 1. The Chief Justice presided, and the following members of the
     Conference were present:

             First Circuit:

                     Chief Judge Juan R. Torruella
                     Chief Judge Joseph L. Tauro,
                             District of Massachusetts

             Second Circuit:

                     Chief Judge Jon 0. Newman
                     Chief Judge Peter C. Dorsey,
                             District of Connecticut

             Third Circuit:

                     Chief Judge Dolores K. Sloviter
                     Chief Judge Edward N. Cahn,
                             Eastern District of Pennsylvania

             Fourth Circuit:

                     Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson, I11
                     Judge W. Earl Britt,
                             Eastern District of North Carolina

             Fifth Circuit:

                     Chief Judge Henry A. Politz
                     Chief Judge William H. Barbour,
                             Southern District of Mississippi
Judicial Conference of ihe Uniied States


                     Sixth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt
                                Judge S. Arthur Spiegel,
                                        Southern District of Ohio

                     Seventh Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Richard A. Posner
                                Chief Judge Michael M. Mihm,
                                        Central District of Illinois

                     Eighth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Richard S. Arnold
                                Judge Donald E. O'Brien,
                                        Northern District of Iowa

                     Ninth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Procter Hug, Jr.
                                Chief Judge Wm. Matthew Byrne, Jr.,
                                        Central District of California

                      Tenth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Stephanie K. Seymour
                                Judge Clarence A. Brimmer,
                                        District of Wyoming

                      Eleventh Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat
                                Judge Wm. Terrell Hodges,
                                        Middle District of Florida

                      District of Columbia Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Harry T. Edwards
                                 Chief Judge John Garrett Penn,
                                         District of Columbia
                                                                           March 12, 1996


       Federal Circuit:

               Chief Judge Glenn L. Archer, Jr.

       Court of International Trade:

               Chief Judge Dominick L. DiCarlo

         Circuit Judge Robert E. Cowen, and District Judges Maryanne Trump Bany,
Richard F? Conaboy, Julia S. Gibbons, Philip M. Pro, Barefoot Sanders, Alicemarie H.
Stotler, and Ann C. Williams attended the Conference session. Circuit Executives
Vincent Flanagan, Steven Flanders, Toby Slawsky, Samuel W. Phillips, Gregory A.
Nussel, James A. Higgins, Collins T. Fitzpatrick, June L. Boadwine, Gregory B.
Walters, Robert L. Hoecker, Norman E. Zoller, and Linda Ferren were also present.

        Senators Judd Gregg and Orrin Hatch, and Representative Henry Hyde spoke
on matters pending in Congress of interest to the Conference. Attorney General Janet
Reno addressed the Conference on matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the
Department of Justice.

        Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence A. Lee, Jr.,
Associate Director for Management and Operations; William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate
Director and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel, Assistant Director, Judicial Conference
Executive Secretariat; Michael W. Blommer, Assistant Director, Congressional,
External and Public Affairs; Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant Director, Judicial
Conference Executive Secretariat; and David A. Sellers, Public Information Officer.
Judge Rya W. Zobel and Russell R. Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the
Federal Judicial Center, also attended the session of the Conference, as did Harvey
Rishikof, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice, and Judicial Fellows Paul W.
Cobb, R. Bany Ruback, and Alex Wohl.




         Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the courts
and on matters relating to the Administrative Office. Judge Zobel spoke to the
Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs, and Judge Conaboy, Chairman of
the United States Sentencing Commission, reported on Sentencing Commission
activities.
Judicial Conference of the United States



ELECTION

                  The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the Federal
          Judicial Center Judge Pasco M. Bowman I1 of the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals,
          vice Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson 111, and Judge Thomas F. Hogan of the District Court
          for the District of Columbia, vice Judge Michael Telesca, for four-year terms
          commencing March 28, 1996.




                   In September 1995, the Executive Committee approved preliminary spending
          plans for the Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Fees of Jurors, and Court
          Security appropriations accounts in anticipation of enactment of the judiciary's fiscal
          year 1996 appropriations bill. However, an appropriations bill was not enacted until
          January 6, 1996 (Public Law No. 104-91). In the interim, the Executive Committee
          authorized the operations of the judicial branch to be funded during lapses in fiscal
          year 1996 appropriations from fees collected in fiscal year 1996 and prior year fee
          collections, twice agreeing to extend this authorization when the deadlines loomed.

                  Upon enactment of the appropriations bill, the Executive Committee slightly
          modified and finalized the interim financial plans. Some highlights of the approved
          financial plans include: an increase of $5 per hour in panel attorney rates, effective
          January 1, 1996, in those districts that have been approved for higher Criminal Justice
          Act rates but for which fhding has not yet been identified; increased funding for
          seven traditional defender organizations and one community defender organization to
          represent death-sentenced inmates who had been represented by post-conviction
          defender organizations; funding for cellular telephones for the improvement of judges'
          security; funding for additional bankruptcy clerks to respond to the extraordinary
          increase in bankruptcy filings; and the earmarking of additional funds for
          videoconferencing of prisoner civil rights' proceedings and other automation
          enhancements (see infra, "Videoconferencing," p. 14).




                  The judiciary's fiscal year 1996 appropriations act did not specifically include
          funds for gender or racial bias studies which had been included in Crime Trust Fund
          monies in an earlier House version of the appropriations bill. It was determined that
                                                                            March 12, 1996


no appeal of the deletion of the genderIracia1 bias funding would be filed with the
House-Senate conference committee. Colloquies and counter-colloquies inserted in the
Congressional Record by a number of Senators took opposing sides on whether other
judiciary funds could be used to pay for such studies. On recommendation of the
Executive Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to send letters to the Chairmen
of the judiciary's congressional Appropriations Subcommittees to advise them that,
absent their objection, the judiciary would fund ongoing gender or race bias studies to
their completion, and that no new studies would be initiated. It was also agreed that
copies of the letters would be sent to Senators who participated in the colloquies on
bias funding.




         The policy for reimbursement of relocation expenses as published in the Guide
to Judiciary Policies and Pmcedures has become obsolete in light of new policies
established in recent years. The Executive Committee tasked the Committee on
Judicial Resources with reviewing and redrafting for Judicial Conference consideration
the full relocation allowance policy. The Judicial Resources Committee might also
take a fresh look at the policy to determine whether any additional changes would be
in order, taking into account the limited funds available for this purpose.

         Pending review of the relocation policy by the Judicial Resources Committee,
the Judicial Conference, reversing a previous determination of the Executive
Committee (see JCUS-SEP 95, p. 68), approved reimbursement to overseas law clerks
for the expenses of shipping automobiles, so long as the total reimbursement for
relocation expenses for each law clerk does not exceed $5000 each way.

       In addition, the Executive Committee considered and denied a request for
reimbursement of relocation expenses from a new judicial appointee.




        As a prerequisite to receiving space project authorizations, the judiciary was
asked on November 2, 1995, by members of the Senate to prioritize within two weeks
its pending fiscal year 1995-1996 courthouse construction projects. After soliciting the
views of Judicial Conference members, the Executive Committee established a
procedure to respond to this request, asking the Security, Space and Facilities
Committee to consult with the circuit judicial councils and affected chief judges prior
to making recommendations. The Security, Space and Facilities Committee then
presented a proposed list of 1995-1996 courthouse construction projects in priority
Judicial Conference of the United States


          order, which the Executive Committee approved. See also, infra, "Courthouse
          Construction Projects," p. 36.


          JUDICIAL          FROM SENATOR
                 QUESTIONNAIRE         GRASSLEY

                   On January 26, 1996, Senator Charles Grassley, Chairman of the Judiciary
          Committee's Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts, sent a
          detailed questionnaire to all district and circuit judges, with a modified version going
          to chief judges. The questionnaire sought opinions on a number of judicial
          administration issues and requested workload and other data. The Executive
          Committee was urged by a number of judges to provide guidance in responding to the
          questionnaire. The Committee determined to take a three-pronged approach to the
          questionnaire: (a) to encourage all judges to respond individually; (b) to submit a
          comprehensive response on.behalf of the Judicial Conference; and (c) to send a letter
          to Senator Grassley informing him of this decision.




                     The Executive Committee:

                     Asked its Chairman to call to the attention of judges and defenders the Judicial
                     Conference-prescribed hourly fee guidelines for appointed counsel in death
                     penalty cases ($75 to $125 per hour) and express the Committee's hope that,
                     in these constrained budgetary times, the guidelines will be adhered to;

                     Agreed to seek recommendations from the Bankruptcy Committee for
                     improvements in the United States trustee program, with the assumption that
                     the program will remain for now within the Department of Justice;

                     Assigned a series of options presented by the Ninth Circuit Judicial Council
                     related to the handling of federal cases in American Samoa to the Committee
                     on Federal-State Jurisdiction and assigned to the National Judicial Council for
                     State and Federal Courts the issue of relations with tribal courts;

                     Tasked the Committee on Judicial Resources with studying the issue of
                     whether caseload should be a factor in filling judicial vacancies and expressed
                     the hope that, in the interim, the Senate would continue its past practice of
                     filling vacancies as they occur. The Committee also determined to encourage
                     judges who are concerned with whether their courts' workloads justify the
                                                                                       March 12, 1996


               need to fill vacancies to communicate with the Judicial Resources Committee
               rather than directly with the Congress;

               Approved technical amendments to items 8.1 and 8.2 of the bankruptcy court
               miscellaneous fee schedule promulgated pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 9 1930(b);

               Approved a request fiom the Committee on International Judicial Relations to
               sponsor an intellectual property seminar, h d e d by the Department of
               Commerce, for legal officials, judges and lawyers fiom Ukraine and the
               Russian Federation;

               On recommendation of the Administrative Office Committee, strongly
               opposed, on behalf of the Judicial Conference, the creation of an Inspector
               General in the judicial branch;

               Cleared for publication the Long Range Plan for the Federal Courts approved
               by the Judicial Conference at the September 1995 session. Consistent with
               earlier actions on the plan, the Committee approved as part of the published
               document a series of minor technical corrections in Recommendations 7, 13,
               51, 54, 55, 57, and 58, and in Implementation Strategies 51% 56% and 56b.
               The Committee also resolved a difference of opinion between the Long Range
               Planning and Judicial Branch Committees, voting to delete commentary from
               chapter 10 of the plan concerning recess appointments of Article III judges.

               In response to a request for comment on proposed legislation, agreed to
               request respectfully that Congress leave to the j~idiciarywhether to hold circuit
               judicial conferences, or at the least, legislate in this area only after hearings are
               held. The Committee also objected to a congressionally imposed dollar limit
               per circuit conference.'

               Agreed to support the pursuit of legislation to transfer the function of tracking
               and receiving fine payments, including the National Fine Center, fiom the
               judiciary to the Department of Justice;

               Authorized the chair of the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure to
               respond to a congressional inquiry about nonunanimous jury verdicts, if asked,
               by communicating the longstanding policy of the Conference against direct



    'The judiciary's 1996 appropriations act (Public Law No. 104-91), enacted in early
January, amended 28 U.S.C. 3 333 to make optional the holding of and attendance at circuit
conferences.
Judicial Confirence of the United States


                     legislative amendment of the Federal Rules outside the Rules Enabling Act's
                     rulemaking process;

                     Amended the jurisdictional statement of the Committee on the Administration
                     of the Bankruptcy System to add the phrase, "Monitor the condition of the
                     fund held in escrow to pay the chapter 7 trustees.";

                     Approved a recommendation of the Budget Committee that a prior Conference
                     position concerning the centralization of unclaimed court registry funds be
                     rescinded (JCUS-SEP 93, p. 42);

                     Agreed, on recommendation of the Court Administration and Case
                     Management Committee, to seek an amendment to 28 U.S.C. 5 471 extending
                     by six months, to June 30, 1997, the date by which the Judicial Conference's
                     Civil Justice Reform Act report is to be transmitted to Congress;

                     Asked the Judicial Resources Committee to study the feasibility of annual or
                     odd-year biennial judgeship surveys;

                     Requested the Security, Space and Facilities Committee to develop a plan for
                     improving perimeter security of courthouses; and

                     Regarding the provision of computer-assisted legal research service, agreed to
                     recommit to the Committee on Automation and Technology the question of
                     whether multiple vendors in the computer-assisted support area of legal
                     research should be considered.


        ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
COMMITTEE


                  The Committee on the Administrative Office reported on its continuing review
          of the agency's activities and programs. Recognizing the efforts of the Administrative
          Office in dealing with the difficult budgetary situation this fiscal year and, in
          particular, the outstanding efforts of Director Mecham in resolving the funding crisis,
          the Committee unanimously approved the following:
                                                                                March 12, 1996   -

           [Tlhe Committee on the Administrative Office commends and
           expresses its sincere appreciation to Administrative Office Director
           Leonidas Ralph Mecham, for his extraordinary, vigorous, and
           successful efforts in conjunction with actions by Chief Justice
           Rehnquist and Sixth Circuit Chief Judge Gilbert S. Merritt, Chairman
           of the Executive Committee of the United States Judicial Conference,
           and efforts of other judges resulting in successfully obtaining adequate
           fiscal year 1996 funding for the Judiciary despite continuing
           difficulties regarding the funding of federal government operations.


COMMITTEEON AUTOMATION
AND TECHNOLOGY

    LONGRANGE PLAN FOR AUTOMATION

          Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 5 612, the Committee on Automation and Technology
    recommended approval of the fiscal year 1996 update to the Long Range Plan for
    Automation in the Federal Judiciary. The Judicial Conference approved the update.


COMM~~TEE
       ON THE ADMINISTRATION
    BANKRUPTCY
OF THE         SYSTEM


             At its September 1991 meeting, the Judicial Conference approved a
    memorandum of understanding (MOU) between the Executive Office for United States
    Trustees and the Administrative Office describing the respective duties of the United
    States trustee, the court, and the clerk in the case closing process and post-
    confirmation monitoring of chapter 11 cases (JCUS-SEP 91, p. 53). Amendments to
    the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure and other developments made revision of
    the MOU necessary. On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of
    the Bankruptcy System, the Judicial Conference approved an Amended Memorandum
    of Understanding Between the Executive OfJice for United States Trustees and the
    Administrative Ofice of the United States Courts Regarding Case Closing and Post
    Conjrmation Chapter 11 Monitoring which-

    *      Eliminates the requirement that the proposed dividend distribution in a chapter
           7 case be submitted to the court for approval;
Judicial Cbnference of the united States


                     Provides more direction to chapter 7 trustees regarding the documehtation that
                     should be submitted with the final report and sets out more specific time
                     elements within which the United States trustee is expected to review the final
                     report;

                     Addresses concerns raised about the reliability of the case trustee certification
                     procedures and the accuracy of the trustee reports necessary for case closing;
                     and

                     Permits modification of the MOU as necessary by written agreement between
                     the parties.




                   The United States trustee program under the Department of Justice was
          established by Congress for oversight of the administration of bankruptcy estates and
          supervision of trustees and other fiduciaries in all but the six judicial districts in
          Alabama and North Carolina. Currently, debtors in the United States trustee and
          bankruptcy administrator districts pay the same fees when filing for bankruptcy, but
          chapter 11 debtors in bankruptcy administrator districts are not subject to an additional
          quarterly fee that is levied on chapter 11 debtors in the United States trustee districts.
          On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, the Conference agreed to take
          appropriate action to institute quarterly chapter 11 fees in bankruptcy administrator
          districts comparable to those in effect in United States trustee districts so that the
          revenues go to the judiciary.


          PERIODICREVISIONOF DOLLARAMOUNTSIN                       THE   BANKRUPTCY
                                                                                 CODE

                   Section 104(b)(l) of title 11 of the United States Code provides for an
          automatic procedure for adjusting certain dollar amounts in the Bankruptcy Code every
          three years according to a mathematical formula which is tied to changes in the
          economy. Under 5 104(b)(2), the Judicial Conference is directed to publish in the
          Federal Register by March 1, 1998, and at three-year intervals thereafter, the dollar
          amounts that will become effective on April 1. Since the periodic publication of
          adjusted dollar amounts under $ 104 is a ministerial task which involves no exercise of
          discretion, the Judicial Conference approved a Bankruptcy Committee recommendation
          to authorize the automatic publication by the Administrative Office of adjusted dollar
          amounts in the Bankruptcy Code at the three-year intervals prescribed under 3 1040>).
                                                                              March 12, 1996




RF,GuLATIONS FOR THE                OF UNITEDSTATES
                            SELECTION             BANKRUPTCY
JUDGES

        The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), 42 U.S.C. $5 12101-
12213, requires that qualified individuals with disabilities be given the same
consideration for employment that qualified individuals without disabilities are given.
                                                                                       .
Although the judiciary is excluded from coverage under the ADA, the statute's
antidiscrimination principles are used as guidance in implementing the Judicial
Conference Equal Employment Opportunity Program. On recommendation of the
Bankruptcy Committee, the Judicial Conference approved amendments to the
regulations governing the selection of bankruptcy judges to clarify that qualified
individuals with disabilities have the same employment opportunities with respect to
bankruptcy judgeship positions that are available to persons without disabilities. The
Conference also approved conforming amendments to the sample public notice, the
sample application form, the sample applicant qualification factors checklist, and the
preliminary disclosure statement for United States bankruptcy judges.




         In 1992 and again in 1995, the executive branch reduced the span of its
uniform standard for background investigations of individuals in executive branch
agencies, first from 15 years to ten years, and then to seven years. Concluding, as it
had previously, that the role of bankruptcy judge is too important to forego the full-
field background investigation of judicial nominees, the Bankruptcy Committee
recommended, and the Judicial Conference agreed, that FBI background investigations
for bankruptcy judge nominees should continue to cover a 15-year span. See also
infia, "Background Investigations of Magistrate Judge Nominees," p. 30.


AD Hoc RECALLREGULATIONS

         To give certain recalled bankruptcy judges the same life and health insurance
benefits as federal employees who have a break in service, the Judicial Conference
approved the Bankruptcy Committee's recommendation to amend the ad hoc recall
regulations for bankruptcy judges t o -

a.      Permit the judicial council of the circuit to recall a bankruptcy judge for a
        fixed period not to exceed one year and a day;
Judicial Conference of the United States


          b.         Permit the judicial council of the circuit to recall a bankruptcy judge on either
                     a full-time basis or on a when-actually-employed basis; and

          c.         Amend the title to deleti the reference therein to the period of service (not to
                     exceed one year). See also infia, "Ad Hoc Recall Regulations," p. 30.

          In addition, the Conference approved a technical amendment to the regulations which
          clarifies that a bankruptcy judge recalled under the regulations shall also take the
          constitutional oath under 5 U.S.C. 5 333 1.


        ON THE BUDGET
COMMITTEE


                  The Budget Committee reported on the difficulties of obtaining fiscal year
          1996 hnding, the status of the judiciary's fiscal year 1997 budget request, and the
          policy guidance to be issued to the Judicial Conference program committees in
          formulating the fiscal year 1998 request. The Committee also reported on Economy
          Subcommittee initiatives.




                  The Committee on Codes of Conduct recommended a technical revision to the
          Judicial Conference Ethics Reform Act Regulations Concerning Outside Eamed
          Income, Honoraria, and Outside Employment to clarify that certain employees who fall
          within the definition of "special government employee" are not subject to the
          Regulations. The Judicial Conference approved the recommendation amending the
          Regulations by adding the following new section 2(c) (new language is italicized):

                     5 2. Definitions.


                     (c)        The terms 'judicial oflcer or employee" and "coveredsenior
                                employee" set forth in section 2(a) and (b), above, do not
                                include any special government employee as de$ned in 18
                                us.c. j 202.
                                                                                  March 12. 1996




    CODEOF CONDUCT
                 FOR UNITEDSTATES
                                JUDGES

            The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Committee that
    section C of the Compliance Section of the Code of Conduct for United States Judges
    be amended (a) to clarify its applicability to retired Article ID, magistrate, and
    bankruptcy judges; and (b) to correct an erroneous citation. The corrections are as
    follows (language to be omitted is lined-through; new language is italicized):

                   C; Retired Judge. A retired judge who
                   . . .                   . ..
           n                    ,       r           l      is ~ t i w dunder 28
           US.C. §§ ,371(b) or 372(a), or who is recalled to judicial service,
           should comply with all the provisions of this Code except Canon 5G,
           but the judge should refrain from judicial service during the period of
           an extra-judicial appointment not sanctioned by Canon 5G. All other
           retired judges who are eligible for recall to judicial service (except
           those in Territories and Possessions) should comply with the provisions
           of this Code governing part-time judges. A senior judge in the
           Territories and Possessions must comply with the Code as prescribed
           by 28 U.S.C. 5 373(c)(5) and 2 : 2.E.C. $ 373d).




            Since its last report to the Conference in September 1995, the Committee on
    Codes of Conduct received 36 new written inquiries and issued 33 written advisory
    responses. The.Chairman received and responded to 34 telephonic inquiries. In
    addition, individual Committee members responded to 36 inquiries from their
    colleagues.


COMMITTEEO N COURTADMINISTRATION
AND CASEMANAGEMENT

                                     DISABILITIES
           TO PERSONSWITH COMMUNICATIONS
    SERVICES

             At its September 1995 session, the Judicial Conference adopted a policy that
    all federal courts provide reasonable accommodations to persons with communications
    disabilities. The Conference also agreed to require courts to provide, at judiciary
    expense, sign language interpreters or other appropriate auxiliary aids to deaf and
    hearing-impaired participants in federal court proceedings in accordance with
Judicial Conference of the United States



          guidelines prepared by the Administrative Office. ' This policy. does not apply to
          spectators, nor does it apply to jurors whose qualifications for service are determined
          under other provisions of law. The Administrative Office, under the supervision and
          subject to the approval of the Court Administration and Case Management Committee
          and the Judicial Conference, was directed to develop other appropriate written
          guidelines to implement the Conference's policy (JCUS-SEP 95, p. 75). At this
          session, on recommendation of the Court Administration and Case Management
          Committee, the Conference approved guidelines for providing services to hearing-
          impaired and other persons with communications disabilities. These guidelines will be
          published in Volume I, Chapter I11 of the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Pmcedures.




                  Between 1991 and 1994, the Judicial Conference implemented pilot programs
          for the experimental use of videoconferencing for certain civil hearings in four United
          States district courts and in one United States bankruptcy court. After considering an
          assessment of the pilot programs by the Administrative Office and the advantagesand
          disadvantages of videoconferencing demonstrated by the pilot programs, the Court
          Administration and Case Management Committee recommended, and the Conference
          agreed, that videoconferencing should be endorsed as a viable optional case
          management tool in prisoner civil rights pretrial proceedings.

                  In addition, the Conference approved a recommendation of the Committee that
          continued finding, pending availability, be authorized for the ongoing
          videoconferencing programs in the district court for the Eastern District of Texas and
          the bankruptcy court for the Western District of Texas. The Conference also
          authorized the expenditure of finds to expand the program of videoconferencing
          prisoner civil rights pretrial proceedings to additional district courts that meet criteria
          developed by the Court Administration and Case Management Committee, pending
          available finding.


          RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT FOR             DISTRICTJUDGES

                   There is currently a statutory requirement that judges reside in the district to
          which they were appointed (28 U.S.C. 5 134(b)). The sole exception to this residency
          provision for district judges pertains to judges appointed to the District Court for the
          District of Columbia, who have no residency requirement. On recommendation of the
          Committee, which considered a request from judges in the Second Circuit, the Judicial
          Conference agreed to propose legislation amending 28 U.S.C. 5 134(b) to allow
                                                                                March 12, 1996


district judges appointed in the Eastern or Southern Districts of New York to reside
within 20 miles of the district to which they were appointed.




         In 1980, upon enactment of the court interpreters statute (28 U.S.C. 5 1827),
the Administrative Office began a program to certify court interpreters in Spanish.
After a number of years of internal administration of the program, the Administrative
Office contracted with the University of Arizona to develop and administer interpreter
examinations under a sole source, cost-reimbursable contract. The Judicial Conference
expanded the program in September 1992 to other languages (JCUS-SEP 92, p. 64),
and costs associated with the University contract increased substantially. As a result,
an independent review of the interpreter certification program was conducted. Based
on that review, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference (a) direct
that the resources available for the certification of interpreters be used first to support
Spanish language certification; (b) direct the Administrative Office to evaluate cost
savings proposals for Spanish certification and to implement savings proposals that
would not impair the overall quality of the program; and (c) suspend the certification
of interpreters in all languages other than Spanish (including Navajo and Haitian
Creole) pending further evaluation by the Administrative Office of alternatives to
certification. The Conference approved the Committee's recommendations.




        In order to eliminate ambiguity regarding fees for handling registry funds, the
Judicial Conference approved a Committee recommendation to amend Items 12, 13,
and 19 of the miscellaneous fee schedules issued in accordance with 28 U.S.C.
$5 1913, 1914, and 1930, respectively, as follows (language to be omitted is lined-
through; new language is italicized):

        The clerk shall assess a charge -     Cfor the handling
        of,registry funds deposited with the court, to be assessed from interest
        earnings and in accordance with the detailed fee schedule issued by the
        Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.

The Conference further agreed to direct the Administrative Office to amend the
registry fund detailed fee schedule to reflect a three percent of capital limitation.
Judicial Conference of the United States




                   Although the miscellaneous fee schedules for the district and bankruptcy courts
          include a fee for every search of the records of the court conducted by the clerk's
          office, the fee schedule for the United States Court of Federal Claims (28 U.S.C.
          $ 1926) contains no seiwch fee. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
          Conference approved an amendment to the miscellaneous fee schedule for the Court of
          Federal Claims to add a $15 search fee and to include a reference to the guidelines for
          the application of the search fee found in the district court miscellaneous fee schedule.




                  In March 1991, the Judicial Conference approved a fee for electronic access
          to court data for the district and bankruptcy courts (JCUS-MAR 91, p. 16), and a
          similar fee was approved in March and September 1994 for the appellate courts
          (JCUS-MAR 94, p. 16) and the United States Court of Federal Claims (JCUS-SEP
          94, p. 47), respectively. This fee has been incorporated into the appropriate
          miscellaneous fee schedules. The fee was initially established at $1.00 per minute; it
          was reduced in March 1995 to 75 cents per minute to avoid an ongoing surplus
          (JCUS-MAR 95, pp. 13-14). At this session, the Conference approved a Committee
          recommendation to reduce the fee for electronic public access further, from 75 cents
          per minute to 60 cents per minute.




                   Proposed legislation would require federal courts to order the closed circuit
          televising of proceedings in certain criminal cases, particularly cases that have been
          moved to a remote location. The legislation would authorize or require the costs of
          the closed circuit system to be paid from private donations. The Judicial Conference
          determined to take no policy position on the legislative amendments pertaining to
          closed circuit television. It also approved a recommendation of the Court
          Administration and Case Management Committee that the House and Senate Judiciary
          Committee leadership be informed that such legislation, if enacted, should be modified
          to (a) remove any prohibition relating to the expenditure of appropriated funds; and (b)
          make discretionary any requirement that courts order closed circuit televising of certain
          criminal proceedings.
                                                                               March 12, 1996




      IN THE COURTROOM
CAMERAS

        The Judicial Conference agreed to authorize each court of appeals to decide for
itself whether to permit the taking of photographs and radio and television coverage of
appellate arguments, subject to any restrictions in statutes, national and local rules, and
such guidelines as the Judicial Conference may adopt. The Conference further agreed
to-

a.      Strongly urge each circuit judicial council to adopt an order reflecting the
        Judicial Conference's decision to authorize the taking of photographs and radio
        and television coverage of court proceedings in the United States courts of
        appeals; and

b.       Strongly urge each circuit judicial council to adopt an order pursuant to
        28 U.S.C. 5 332 (d)(l), reflecting the September 1994 decision of the Judicial
        Conference (JCUS-SEP 94, pp. 46-47) not to permit the taking of photographs
        and radio and television coverage of court proceedings in the United States
        district courts. In addition, the Judicial Conference agreed to strongly urge the
        judicial councils to abrogate any local rules of court that conflict with this
         decision, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 5 2071(c)(l).




         In December 1995, President Clinton directed the Attorney General to develop
a "...universal policy providing for drug testing of all federal arrestees before decisions
are made on whether to release them into the community pending trial." In February
1996, the Attorney General submitted a pretrial drug testing proposal to the Executive
Committee, which referred the matter to the Committee on Criminal Law for
recommendation to the March Judicial Conference. Reporting on the proposal to the
Conference, the Criminal Law Committee recommended that the issue be referred back
to that Committee. The Judicial Conference voted to refer the Attorney General's
proposal regarding universal pretrial drug testing to the Criminal Law Committee for
expeditious consideration and report to the Executive Committee, which is authorized
to act on the matter on behalf of the Conference.
Judicial Conference of the United States




                   The Judicial Conference approved two manuals for distribution to probation
          and pretrial services personnel. The first, "Staff Safety Manual for the Probation and
          Pretrial Services System," addresses office safety strategies, emergency preparedness,
          mental and physical preparedness, and strategies for safety in the community. The
          second, "National Oleoresin Capsicum Training Manual for the Probation and Pretrial
          Services System," provides policy for the use of Oleoresin Capsicum (commonly
          known as Cap-Stun), a non-lethal spray which is used in self-defense.




                   In districts in which the court has authorized probation and pretrial services
           officers to cany firearms, district firearms instructors are trained and initially certified
           in a two-week firearms instructor school managed by the Federal Corrections and
           Supervision Division of the Administrative Office. The Judicial Conference approved
           a recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, based on five years of
           experience with the program, that the cycle for recertification of firearms instructors be
           changed from a two- to three-year cycle to a four- to five-year cycle.




                   On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the
           following forms:

           a.        A 0 254E, "Judgment in a Criminal Case for Organizational Defendants." This
                     form was developed to simplify the production of judgments in cases where
                     the defendant is an organization; and

           b.        A 0 245H, "Judgment in a Criminal Case for Petty Offenses (Short Form)'' and
                     A 0 2451, "Judgment in a Criminal Case for Petty Offenses." These forms
                     were created in response to the suggestion of several magistrate judges that a
                     shorter, easier judgment be developed to handle petty offenses.
                                                                            March 12, 1996




        The Committee on Defender Services is authorized to approve funding
requests for defender organizations on behalf of the Judicial Conference within the
general limits of the approved financial plan. For the fiscal year 1996, the Committee
approved budgets totalling $130,928,600 for federal public defender organizations,
grants totalling $33,386,700 for community defender organizations, $5 million in
grants to post-conviction defender organizations, and increases in budgets and grants to
support capital habeas corp'us representation totalling $14,525,894 in view of
congressional elimination of funding for post-conviction defender organizations.




       The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Committee on
Defender Services that the Grant and Conditions Agreement for Community Defender
Organizations be amended to ensure that grant funds are fully protected against loss
even when amounts on deposit exceed the current $100,000 limit on federally insured
accounts. The amendment, which will take effect in fiscal year 1997, reads as follows
(new language is italicized):

        2. BANK ACCOUNTS FOR GRANT FUNDS: Except as authorized
        by the A.O., the grantee will maintain grant funds in federally insured
        interest bearing accounts in accordance with provisions of 31 CFR 202
        and will e n s m that amounts in excess of federal insurance limits am
        collateralized before depositing the fknds; grant funds will be
        maintained separately and will not be commingled with any non-grant
        funds maintained by grantee; and interest earned on the deposit of
        grant funds will be deposited with grant funds and may not be
        obligated or expended by the grantee, and will be returned to the A.O.
        at the end of the fiscal year for which the grant was awarded.

       In addition, although the Committee declined to support such a change, the
Conference determined to revise the Grant and Conditions Agreement to require
Community Defender Organizations to maintain insurance covering liability arising
from malpractice, negligence, unfair employment practices, or errors and omissions.
Judicial Conference of the United States




                   On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved, for
          use at the discretion of the courts, attorney supplemental information statement forms,
          attorney memorandum forms, and payment recommendation sheets. These forms
          should assist in determining the reasonableness of Criminal Justice Act panel attorney
          voucher (CJA 20) claims in excess of the case compensation maximums.




                  The Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973 (Public Law No. 93-236)
          established the Special Court, which presently consists of five Article ID judges
          designated from other courts, to oversee a series of rail service reorganizations in the
          northeast and midwest during the 1970's and early 1980's. In the last decade, the
          Court's workload has declined significantly. On recommendation of the Committee on
          Federal-State Jurisdiction, the Judicial Conference agreed to support the dissolution of
          the Special Court and, more specifically, seek legislation to-

           a.        Dissolve the Special Court following a reasonable, but brief, transition period;

           b.        Transfer the former Special Court's exclusive, nationwide original jurisdiction
                     to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia; and

           c.        Allow parties in any subsequent proceedings within the Special Court's
                     jurisdiction to obtain appellate review in the United States Court of Appeals
                     for the District of Columbia Circuit pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1291-1294.




                   The "Child Custody Reform Act of 1995" (S. 632, 104th Congress) would
          amend the Parental Kidnapping Prevention Act (PKPA) (28 U.S.C. § 1738A) to
          establish uniform standards for resolving child custody jurisdiction between states. It
          would also seek to clarify when a state's custody order is entitled to "full faith and
          credit." Although neither the PKFA nor the legislation currently implicates the federal
          courts, efforts are being made to amend the bill or other legislative proposals to create
          federal jurisdiction in this area. The Judicial Conference has previously opposed
          similar legislation, noting that it "would constitute an unnecessary expansion of federal
          jurisdiction into areas in which federal courts have no expertise and could result in
                                                                               March 12, 1996


unnecessary federal-state conflicts" (JCUS-SEP 89, p. 64). At this session, the
Conference, on recommendation of the Committee, reaffirmed its position opposing
legislation to create a federal cause of action to resolve conflicts between states on the
issue of jurisdiction over child custody disputes. The Conference also emphasized
confidence in the state courts' ability to resolve such disputes and supported the efforts
of the Conference of Chief Justices to address the problem of conflicting interstate
child custody orders.


NATIONAL
       CENTERFOR STATECOURTS

        On recommendation of the Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction, the
Judicial Conference approved the following resolution in recognition of the 25th
anniversary of the National Center for State Courts and the substantial contributions of
this organization:

                Whereas 1996 marks the 25th Anniversary of the establishment
        of the National Center for State Courts in Williamsburg, Virginia; and

               Whereas the National Center is dedicated to improving the
        administration of justice in the nation's state courts; and

                Whereas the National Center provides critical administrative
        support for state and local courts throughout the nation by conducting
        research, providing education and training, offering direct assistance,
        and gathering and distributing information about the state courts; and

                 Whereas the National Center continually identifies emerging
        issues affecting state and federal jurisdiction and has provided
        invaluable assistance to the Conference of Chief Justices in preserving
        the traditional jurisdiction of the state courts; and

                Whereas the National Center has demonstrated an unfailing
        commitment to improve judicial federalism by strengthening
        communication, cooperation, and coordination between the state and
        federal courts; and

                Whereas the staff of the National Center has exemplified the
        highest standards of professionalism, dedication, and commitment to
        ensuring that the state courts provide a fair, efficient, and responsive
        system of justice for all Americans;
Judicial Conference of the United Siates


                             NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE
                     JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES congratulates
                     the National Center on its 25th Anniversary, and extends the deep
                     appreciation of the Federal Judiciary for the Center's many
                     contributions to the preservation of equal access to justice.




                   The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of December 3 1,
           1995, it had received 2,961 financial disclosure reports and certifications for the
          calendar year 1994, including 1,260 reports and certifications from justices and Article
          111 judges, 342 from bankruptcy judges, 461 from magistrate judges, and 898 from
          judicial employees.




                   The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the period
           from July 1, 1995 to December 3 1, 1995, a total of 119 intercircuit assignments,
           undertaken by 74 justices and Article I11 judges, were processed and recommended by
           the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments and approved by the Chief Justice.




                   The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported that the Conference
           of Supreme Courts of the Americas, held in October 1995, was a success. A
           comprehensive substantive program was presented, and a charter for the establishment
           of a permanent Organization of Supreme Courts of the Americas was developed. The
           Organization will provide a structure to advance its goals of promoting and
           strengthening judicial independence and the rule of law throughout the Hemisphere.
                                                                                     March 12, 1996



        ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
COMM~TTEE


                A 1964 resolution of the Judicial Conference provides that "senior judges
       should be designated to sit in their own districts for periods not-longer than a year at a
       time by each designation, except under exceptional circumstances." JCUS-SEP
       64, p. 59. On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the Judicial
       Conference repealed the 1964 resolution and, in lieu of the policy expressed by the
       resolution, determined that the discipline of senior judges and proceedings conceming
       disability or inability to perform judicial duties should be inquired into and resolved
       pursuant to authority of 28 U.S.C. 8 372.




                The Conference was asked by staff of a Senate Judiciary subcommittee to
       comment on a legislative proposal to extend the "Rule of SOM2   to allow judges to take
       senior status as early as age 60 with 20 years of service as Article III judges. In
       addition, however, the proposal provides that the workload certification requirement of
       28 U.S.C. 8 3 7 1 0 would be increased for all senior judges from 25 percent to 50
       percent of an average active judge's workload. On recommendation of the Committee,
       which considered a number of alternatives, the Judicial Conference agreed to inform
       the staff of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the
       Courts that the Conference-

       a.      Supports legislation to expand the "Rule of 80" to allow a judge to take senior
               status as early as age 60 with 20 years of service as an Article I11 judge;

       b.      Opposes legislation which would increase the workload certification
               requirement for      senior judges from 25 percent to 50 percent, because the
               Conference is unable to ascertain the impact of an increased workload
               certification requirement upon senior judges or judges who are considering
               taking senior status; and

        c.     Expresses no objection to legislation which would (1) establish a 50 percent
               workload certification requirement for judges who take senior status before age



   2The "Rule of 80" provides that a judge may retire from ofice or take senior status
commencing at age 65, provided the sum of age and years of judicial service totals 80 or
more. 28 U.S.C. g 371(c).
Judicial Conference of the United States


                     65; and (2) provide that when these judges reach age 65, the workload
                     certification requirement would decrease from 50 percent to 25 percent.




                  Additional judgeships are recommended by the Judicial Conference only after
          a thorough examination of the needs of the courts through the biennial survey of
          judgeship needs. Convinced that any recommendation to hold unfilled a vacancy or
          eliminate a judgeship deserves a similar comprehensive review, the Committee on
          Judicial Resources recommended, and the Conference concurred, that the Conference

          a.         Include, in the biennial survey of judgeship needs, reviews of the need to
                     eliminate judgeship positions or leave judgeships unfilled, and communicate to
                     Congress any recommendations regarding eliminations along with requests for
                     additional judgeships; and

          b.         Urge the Senate to continue processing nominations to fill vacancies as they
                     occur and the Congress to act on judgeship requirements -- the need both to
                     increase and decrease -- as a total package.

                   In addition, to allay concerns expressed by some courts with temporary
          judgeships that immediate action was necessary to avoid the possibility of losing one
          or more of the judgeships, the Judicial Resources Committee, at the request of the
          Executive Committee, expedited the 1996 biennial survey of judgeship needs for
          districts that currently have temporary judgeships. The Conference approved the
          Committee's recommendation that it authorize transmittal to Congress of a request to
          (a) convert the temporary judgeships to permanent in the Northern District of New
          York, Eastern District of Virginia, Southern District of Illinois, Eastern District of
          California, and Northern District of Alabama; and (b) extend the temporary judgeships
          for five years in the Northern District of Ohio, Central District of Illinois, Eastern
          District of Missouri, District of Nebraska, District of Hawaii, and District of Kansas.


           COURTREPORTING
                        RESOURCES
                               FOR SENIOR
                                        JUDGES

                  Finding the current system of allocating court reporting resources to senior
          judges increasingly difficult to administer, the Judicial Resources Committee proposed
          a new method which provides objective criteria, allows for maximum flexibility in the
          use of allocated resources, and provides a mechanism for the first time for
                                                                              March 12, 1996


redistributing resources to meet changing needs. On recommendation of the
Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the following method of allocating court
reporter resources for senior judges:

a.     Court reporter staffing credit (and associated funding) will be provided to the
       courts based upon the total number of in-court hours reported by the senior
       judges during the prior statistical reporting year or period. The criteria will
       require 650 senior judge hours for one position; partial position credit will be
       authorized for fractional remainders when the in-court time for senior judges
       was reported at less than 650 hours in court; and 650 hours will be subtracted
       for each official court reporter on board above the fiscal year court reporter
       position ceiling for active judges;

b.      The salary adjustment period will be consistent with the salary adjustment
        period of the Cost Control Monitoring System; and

c.      If requested by a court, and certified by the circuit judicial council, staffing
        credit (and associated funding) for a full court reporter position will be
        provided to the court for any senior district judge who draws cases
        subst&tially on the same basis as all active judges in the district, with this
        certification to be redetermined each year by the circuit councils; the in-court
        hours for senior judges so qualifying will be removed from the calculation.

         The Conference also approved the Committee's recommendation to authorize
staffing credit for additional court reporters to support senior judges in accordance
with the new methodology for the following district courts. Authorization of this
credit will be made as soon as funds can be identified for its implementation; courts
over their authorized court reporter ceilings at the time the allocations are made will
not be provided with the funding until the ceilings are adjusted based upon
confirmation of new active judges.

                          District.Court      Staffinn Credit
                        Arizona                       1.OO
                        Arkansas (Eastern)              .59
                        Illinois (Northern)           1.1'5
                        Kentucky (Western)              .61
                        Michigan (Eastern)            1.OO
                        New York (Southern)           1.OO
                        Ohio (Southern)               1.OO
                        Pennsylvania (Middle)         1.OO
                        Tennessee (Middle)              .37
Judicial Conjerence of the United States




                    In September 1994, the Committee on Judicial Resources was asked by the
          Judicial Conference to consider development of special qualifications standards, salary
          incentives, and transcript rates for court reporters providing realtime reporting services
          (i.e., displaying the court transcript immediately after words are spoken in the
          courtroom) (JCUS-SEP 94, p. 49). After reviewing a number of options, the
          Committee recommended the following policy, which the Conference approved at this
          session. Effective June 1, 1996, the Conference will-

          a.         Recognize as certified realtime reporters those official court reporters who
                     have successfully completed the certified realtirne reporter examination offered
                     by the National Court Reporters Association, or who have passed an equivalent
                     qualifying examination, and permit certified realtime reporters to sell unedited,
                     uncertified transcripts;

          b.         Define the category of "realtime unedited transcript" as "a draft transcript
                     produced by a certified realtime reporter as a byproduct of realtime to be
                     delivered electronically during the proceedings or immediately following
                     adjournment"; set the maximum rate each certified realtime reporter may
                     charge and collect for an original "realtime unedited transcript" to be equal to
                     one-half that of daily transcript; and set the maximum rate each certified
                     realtime reporter may charge and collect for copies of realtime unedited
                     transcript to be equal to that of the copy rates for daily transcript. Litigants
                     who have ordered a realtime unedited transcript and subsequently order a
                     certified transcript of the same proceeding will receive a credit toward the
                     purchase of the certified transcript equal to the purchase price of the realtime
                     unedited transcript; and

          c.         Authorize the Administrative Office to issue guidelines to implement this
                     policy. These guidelines will include standards for the production, distribution
                     and use of unedited transcripts.




                  On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, the Conference
          modified the Transcript Format Guidelines to provide an exception to the requirement
          that each page of transcript contain 25 lines of text. The exception allows a page
          break before and after sidebar conferences, bench conferences, and hearings on
          motions in jury trials when the transcript is produced under the daily or hourly
                                                                              March 12, 1996


delivery schedule and the exception is approved by the presiding judicial officer.
Court reporters are required to reduce the page count for billing purposes by onehalf
page for every page of transcript which includes a sidebar conference, bench
conference, or hearing on motions that is marked by such a page break. This
modification will make it easier for a judge to provide portions of a transcript to a jury
for review.

        In addition, the Judicial Conference approved a Committee recommendation to
amend a 1966 policy in order expressly to allow court reporters to charge parties
(including the Department of Justice and parties proceeding under the Criminal Justice
Act) for transcripts produced of arraignments, changes of plea, or proceedings in
connection with the imposition of sentencing when an electronic recording of the
proceeding has been filed with the court in lieu of a written transcript.




        In September 1993, the Judicial Conference approved the Court Personnel
System (CPS) -- a qualifications, classification, and compensation system covering
most court employees (JCUS-SEP 93, pp. 49-50). One component of CPS is a pay-
for-performance option permitting court units to design alternative salary increase
policies based on performance. As approved by the Conference in 1993, the CPS
assumed that individual court units would independently design their own pay-for-
performance systems. It subsequently became apparent to the Committee that
pay-for-performance would be better served if the Administrative Office would design
a performance management structure. On recommendation of the Committee, the
Judicial Conference approved a proposed performance management structure and a
revised process for use by courts seeking to implement pay-for-performance under the
Court Personnel System. Any court unit that develops performance appraisal and pay-
for-performance plans designed within the structure will need no further approval prior
to implementing its pay-for-performance system. No such system will be implemented
until FY 1997.




        The Office of Personnel Management has granted voluntary early retirement
authority for fiscal year 1996 for all eligible judiciary employees except for employees
of the Supreme Court, the Federal Judicial Center, and the U.S. Sentencing
Commission. The Judicial Conference approved a Judicial Resources Committee
recommendation to authorize all court units to offer voluntary early retirement to
Judicial Conference of the United States


          eligible employees when the court unit must reduce staff as a result of organizational
          restructuring or budget limitations in fiscal year 1996.




                   Currently, there is no judiciary-wide policy governing the use of compensatory
          time, although informal compensatory time programs are available to many court
          employees as local policy. This unregulated system leads to inconsistent practices and
          may be subject to abuse, including the potential for significant financial liability on the
          part of the judiciary. The Judicial Conference approved a Judicial Resources
          Committee recommendation that a compensatory time policy be established which
          mandates that at least certain elements be included in policies of those court units
          which choose to use compensatory time. The compensatory policy will be published
          in Chapter X of the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedms.




                  In September 1988, the Judicial Conference approved the cooperation and
          participation of the judiciary in the Federal Employee Salary Offset Program (JCUS-
          SEP 88, pp. 89-90). At this session, the Conference approved a Judicial Resources
          Committee recommendation that the judiciary's participation in the program be
          expanded to authorize the use of payroll data for the Child Support Enforcement
          Program.


COMMITTEE  ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGESSYSTEM



                   The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
          recommended that the Judicial Conference adopt "Principles of Magistrate Judge
          Utilization"; approve their distribution to all district courts; authorize their use by the
          Conference, the Magistrate Judges Committee and the Administration Office as a tool
          for advising courts and assessing their magistrate judge utilization; and encourage their
          use by the Federal Judicial Center in judicial education programs. The Judicial
          Conference declined to adopt this recommendation.
                                                                              March 12. 1996




        Consistent with Recommendation 66 of the Long Range Plan for the Federal
Courts, the Judicial Conference slightly modified and then approved a recommendation
of the Magistrate Judges Committee that an amendment of 28 U.S.C. $ 636(e) be
endorsed to provide that-

a.     Magistrate judges be given summary contempt authority for criminal contempts
       that occur in their presence, limiting the penalties that the magistrate judge
       may impose to 30 days' imprisonment or a $5,000 fine;

b.     Magistrate judges be given contempt authority in civil consent cases under
       28 U.S.C. $ 636(c) and misdemeanor cases under 18 U.S.C. $ 3401, thereby
       authorizing magistrate judges in such cases:

       (1) To exercise the h l l civil contempt authority of the district court; and

       (2) To recommend for prosecution, and to punish after notice and hearing
       under Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure 42(b), criminal contempts that
       constitute disobedience or resistance to the court's lawful writ, process, order,
       rule, decree, or command in such cases, limiting the penalties that the
       magistrate judge may impose to 30 days' imprisonment or a $5,000 fine;

c.     Appeals from magistrate judges' contempt orders be heard by the court that
       will hear the appeal of the final order on the merits of the case, either
       the court of appeals under 28 U.S.C. $ 636(c)(3), or the district court under
       28 U.S.C. $ 636(c)(4) or 18 U.S.C. 5 3402. In any other proceeding in which
       a magistrate judge presides under 28 U.S.C. $ 636(a) or $ 636(b), or any other
       statute, the appeal of a magistrate judge's summary contempt order shall be to
       the district court;

d.     Magistrate judges be authorized to certify more serious criminal contempts,
       and other criminal contempts occurring outside the magistrate judge's presence
       in any other cases or proceedings arising under $ 636(a) or
       5 636(b), or any other statute, to the district court for further contempt
       proceedings; and

e.     Magistrate judges be authorized to certify all civil contempts in any other cases
       or proceedings arising under $ 636(a) or $ 636(b), or any other statute, to the
       district court for hrther contempt proceedings.
Judicial Conference of the United States




          AD Hoc RECALLREGULATIONS

                  The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Magistrate Judges
          Committee to amend Sections 2 and 5 of the Regulations of the Judicial Confemnce
          Establishing Standards and Pmcedures for the Recall of United States Magistrate
          Judges to extend the period of recall service from up to one year to up to one year and
          one day. The amendment will also provide that a recalled magistrate judge may be
          compensated on a full-time basis or a "when-actually-employed" basis. These changes
          will permit magistrate judges who are performing substantial service for the federal
          judiciary to reacquire the same life insurance coverage that they had at the time of
          retirement and, if retired without health insurance benefits, to obtain federal health
          insurance coverage during the term of recall. See also supra, "Ad Hoc Recall
          Regulations," pp. 11-12).




                  On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved an
          amendment to Section 3.02(d) of the Regulations of the Judicial Confe~nce
          Establishing Standards and Procedures for the Appointment and Reappointment of
          United States Magistrate Judges. The amendment will permit the Magistrate Judges
          Committee to grant, on an individual case basis, waivers of this provision, which
          prohibits a member of a merit selection panel from being considered as a nominee for
          a magistrate judge position for a period of one year after serving on the panel.




                  As noted above (see supra, "Background Investigations of Bankruptcy Judge
          Nominees," p. ll), the executive branch has twice reduced the span of its background
          investigations for appointees from the standard 15-year span, first in 1992 to a 10-year
          period, and later in 1995, to a seven-year period. On recommendation of the
          Magistrate Judges Committee, the Judicial Conference determined that the span of the
          FBI background investigations of individuals selected as new full-time magistrate
          judges should continue to be 15 years.




                 After consideration of the report of the Committee on the Administration of
          the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of the Director of the
                                                                               March 12, 1996


Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the
Judicial Conference approved the following changes in salaries and arrangements for
full-time and part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact
are to be effective when appropriated funds are available.



Western District of Virginia

         Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
        judge positions in the district.

Northern District of West Vuginia

        Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Wheeling
        from Level 3 ($41,280 per annurn) to Level 2 ($5 1,600 per annum).

Southern District of West Virginia

        Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
        judge positions in the district.



Western District of Texas

        Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        magistrate judge positions in the district.



Eastern District of Michigan

a.      Discontinued the vacant magistrate judge position at Detroit; and

b.      Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

Western District of Michigan

        Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
        judge positions in the district.
Judicial Conference of the United Shtes


          Eastern District of Tennessee

                    Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
                    judge positions in the district.

          Western District of Tennessee

                    Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
                    judge positions in the district.



          Western District of Missouri

                    Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
                    judge positions in the district.

          District of North Dakota

          a.         Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Bismarck to full-time
                     status;

          b.        Authorized the full-time magistrate judge position at Fargo in the District of
                    North Dakota to serve in the adjoining District of Minnesota in accordance
                    with 28 U.S.C. 5 631(a); and

          c.         Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                     the magistrate judge positions in the district.



          District of Alaska

                     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                     magistrate judge positions in the district.
                                                                               March 12, 1996




   District of Wyoming

           Designated the full-time magistrate judge position at Yellowstone National
           Park, in the District of Wjroming, to serve in the adjoining District of Montana
           in accordance with 28 U.S.C. $ 63 l(a).



   Middle District of Georgia

           Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
           magistrate judge positions in the district.


        TO REVIEW CIRCUIT
COMMITTEE               COUNCIL
CONDUCT            ORDERS
      AND DISABILITY



           Responding to suggestions made during the course of revising the Illustrative
   Rules Governing Complaints of Judicial Misconduct and Disability to accommodate
   recent positions of the Judicial Conference (see JCUS-MAR 94, pp. 27-3 l), the
   Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders recommended
   two additional modifications to the Rules. Both were approved in principle by the
   Judicial Conference as follows (proposed new language is italicized):

           New Rule 1(f) to read along the following lines:

           0 Abuse of the Complaint Procedure. A complainant who hasjled
           vexatious, repetitive, harassing, or frivolous complaints, or has
           otherwise abused the complaint procedure, may be restricted from
          Fling further complaints. AfCer afloording the o#ending complainant an
           opportunity to show cause in writing why his or her ability to fiIe
          Jirrther complaints should not be limited, the judicial council may
           restrict or impose conditions upon the complainantk use of the
           complaint procedure. Upon written request of the complainant, the
          judicial council may revise or withdraw any restrictions or conditions
           imposed.
Judicial Confrmce of the United Stales


          a         Amended Rule 16(g) to read along the following lines:

                    (g) Consent of judge complained about. Any materials from the files
                   may be disclosed to any person upon the written consent of both the
                   judge complained about and the chief judge of the circuit. In any
                   disclosm the chief judge may require that the identity of the
                    complainant, or of witnesses in an investigation conducted by a special
                   committee or the judicial council, be shielded.


COMM~ITEEON RULESOF PRACTICE
AND PROCEDURE



                  Section 104(b) of the Bankruptcy Code, as amended in 1994, requires the
         Judicial Conference to adjust -- in accordance with changes in the Consumer Price
         Index -- specified dollar amounts in certain provisions of the Code every three years
         beginning April 1, 1998. These adjustments are ministerial, and as noted previously,
         the Judicial Conference at this session delegated the publication of the adjusted
         amounts to the Administrative Office (see supra, "Periodic Revision of Dollar
         Amounts in the Bankruptcy Code," p. 10). Some of the dollar amounts to be adjusted
         are referenced in the Oflicial Bankruptcy Forms, which are promulgated directly by
         the Judicial Conference. To avoid undue confusion and delay in revising the pertinent
         Official Forms to reflect dollar adjustments, the Judicial Conference approved a Rules
         Committee recommendation that on April 1, 1998, and at each three-year interval
         ending on April 1 thereafter, the Official Bankruptcy Forms be amended, automatically
         and without further action by the Conference, to conform to any adjustment of dollar
         amounts made under 5 104(b) of the Bankruptcy Code.




                 Amendments to the Federal Rules of Appellate, Bankruptcy, Civil, and
         Criminal Procedure took effect on December 1, 1995, requiring that all local rules of
         court "must conform to any uniform numbering system prescribed by the Judicial
         Conference." (See Appellate Rule 47, Bankruptcy Rules 80 18 and 9029, Civil Rule
         83, and Criminal Rule 57.) At the Conference's urging in September 1988 (JCUS-
         SEP 88, p. 103), many district courts have voluntarily adopted a uniform numbering
         system for local rules addressing civil practice, and on request of the Committee,
         almost all appellate courts have renumbered their rules patterned on the Appellate
         Rules. The Rules Committee has recently completed a study of the local rules on
                                                                                March 12, 1996


    bankruptcy and criminal procedure and prepared model uniform numbering systems
    tracking the Rules in these areas. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
    Conference adopted a numbering system for local rules of court that corresponds with
    the relevant Federal Rules of Practice and Procedure, and set April 15, 1997, as the
    effective date of compliance with the uniform numbering system so that courts will
    have sufficient time to make necessary changes to their local rules.


COMMITTEE ON SECURITY,
SPACEAND FACILITIES


            At its September 1995 session, the Judicial Conference directed the Security,
    Space and Facilities and Budget Committees to submit a plan to the March 1996
    Judicial Conference for reducing the overall growth of space rental costs (JCUS-SEP
    95, p. 73). The Security, Space and Facilities Committee, after providing opportunity
    for comment by court units, proposed a plan to contain space growth, entitled "Space
    Management Initiatives in the Federal Courts." The Budget Committee concurred in
    the plan, and it was approved by the Judicial Conference at this session.




            On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference determined that
    it would take no position at this time on the Public Buildings Reform Act of 1995,
    S. 1005 (104th Congress), a bill which has the potential to change the way space
    matters are addressed by the executive and legislative branches. In the event of further
    action by the Senate or House of Representatives, the Conference delegated to the
    Committee on Security, Space and Facilities, in consultation with the Director of the
    Administrative Office of the United States Courts and the Executive Committee, the
    authority to express views on certain provisions of the bill that will have an impact on
    space and facilities for the federal courts.




            The Judicial Conference approved a Security, Space and Facilities Committee
    recommendation to amend the United States Courts Design Guide to enhance the level
    of security for probation and pretrial services ofices and bankruptcy clerks' offices
    located outside federal courthouses in commercially leased space. The changes include
Judicial Conference of the United Sfates


      -   providing for the installation of bullet-resistant glazing on the window and surrounding
          areas of the public counter at locations where there is no weapons screening at the
          entrance and, for offices without a public counter, installation of a security access
          control system.




                   In March 1995, the Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the
          Security, Space and Facilities Committee to develop a five-year listing of courthouse
          construction projects (JCUS-MAR 95, pp. 3 1-32) which would group new construction
          projects annually over a five-year period, according to the urgency of each court's
          housing situation. The first five-year list was approved by the Conference in
          September 1995 (JCUS-SEP 95, pp. 98-99). Subsequently, Congress requested further
          details of the process and methodology used to place pending projects in numerical
          order. Moreover, some of the assumptions underlying the five-year list approved by
          the Conference in September 1995 have changed, and the Committee has continued to
          refine the criteria used to adjust the plan, should funding limitations or actions by
          Congress necessitate project delay or acceleration. To address the concerns of
          Congress and the necessary revisions, the Conference approved a Committee
          recommendation that it-

          a.         Approve criteria and a methodology for placing courthouse construction
                     projects in numerical order (including the factors and scores for calculating       .
                     and weighing the criteria) and a revised five-year plan of courthouse
                     construction projects placed in order of priority, including the composite and
                     detailed scores of each project. The Committee was authorized to provide
                     narrative descriptions of how the criteria were applied, projections of caseload
                     based on the long range facilities plans completed by each district, and other
                     explanatory materials that might be requested; and

          b.         Delegate to the Committee on Security, Space and Facilities (in consultation
                     with affected circuit judicial councils and courts) authority to adjust the five-
                     year plan to take into account changing circumstances (such as modified
                     funding limits or contracting situations) that might delay or accelerate projects
                     listed in the Conference-approved fiveyear plan. When adjusting the plan, the
                     Committee will take into account the priority order and scores of the projects
                     approved by the Conference.
                                                                                      March 12, 1996




                  The Conference agreed to recommit to the Committee on Security, Space and
         Facilities a resolution to eliminate existing 24-hour security officer coverage for
         purposes of reevaluating this matter after consulting with the affected courts to
         determine the effects of eliminating existing 24-hour coverage. Any further action by
         the Committee to eliminate 24-hour security should be reviewed by the Judicial
         Conference.




                 All of the foregoing recommendations which require the expenditure of funds
         for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to the
         availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the Conference might establish
         for the use of available resources.




                 The Conference authorized the immediate release of matters considered by this
         session where necessary for legislative or administrative action.




                                                     L&~.$~offyp7
                                                         Chief Jus ice o f t   nited States
                                                         Presiding
                                                                          I/
April 29, 1996
