REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES




SEPTEMBER 15,1998

WA SHINGTON, D.C.




JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STA TES
CHIEF JUSTICE WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST,
PRESIDING
LEONIDAS RALPH MECHAM, SECRETARY
REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES

September 15, 1998


     Contents

     Call of the Conference.....................                                  35
     Reports................................                                      38
     Executive Committee......................                                    38
           Resolutions .........................                                  38
           The Judicial Conference of the United States
                    and its Committees ..............
           United States Sentencing Commission ..
           Data Collection and Dissemination ........
           Miscellaneous Actions................
     Committee on the Administrative Office........
           Committee Activities .................
     Committee on Automation and Technology .......
           Committee Activities .................
     Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy S;ystem   .



           Bankruptcy Judgeships ................
           Intercircuit Assignment of Bankruptcy Judges
           Place of Holding Bankruptcy Court........
           National Bankruptcy Review Commission..
     Committee on the Budget ....................
           Fiscal Year 2000 Budget Request .........
           Cost Control Monitoring System .........
           Certifying Officer Legislation ..........
           Funding for Tribal Courts .............
     Committee on Codes of Conduct..............
           Code of Conduct for Federal Public Defender. Employees
           Judges' Recusal Obligations .............
           Committee Activities                      .. ... .....
     Committee  on  Court Administration         and Case  Manag ement..
           Methods Analysis Program - Jury Administrat ion......
           Composition of Circuit Councils.........
                                                                   ........
           Statistical Reporting of Social Security Appeals ............    .......63
                                                                                  6
        Miscellaneous Fee Schedules..................               . . . . .64 ,
        Consolidation - Southern District of West Virginia..     . . .. . . .65
Committee on Criminal Law .......................                   . . . . .66
        Committee Activities .......................                . . . . .66
Committee on Defender Services .....................                . . . . .67
        Pane] Attorney Administration.........                      . . . . .67
        Defender Organization Funding Requests..........            . . . . .67
        Federal Death Penalty Cases ..................              . . . . .67
Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction...............              . . . . .74
        Medical Records Privacy Legislation .............           . . . . .74
        Multidistrict Litigation Transfer Provision .........       . . . . .76
        Judicial Improvement Act of 1998..............              . . . . .76
Committee on Financial Disclosure...................                . . . . .78
        Committee Activities .......................                . . . . .78
Committee on Intercircuit Assignments ................              . . . . .79
        Committee Activities .......................                . . . . .79
Committee on International Judicial Relations ............          . . . . .79
        Committee Activities .......................                . . . . .79
Committee on the Judicial Branch....................                . . . . .79
        Committee Activities .......................                . . . . .79
Committee on Judicial Resources....................                 . . . . .80
        Secretaries to Chief Circuit Judges ..............             . .. .s
        Settlement Conference Attorney Offices..........            . . . . .80
        Bankruptcy Appellate Pane] Staffing.............            . . . . .81
        Bankruptcy Administrators ...................               . . . . .81
        Circuit Executive for the Federal Circuit.........          . . . . .81
Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System ..           82
        Selection and Appointment Regulations ..................             82
       Changes in Magistrate Judge Positions ...................             82
       Accelerated Funding ................................                  85
Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders.           86
       Committee Activities................................                  86
Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure...................              87
       Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure...................              87
       Federal Rules of Civil Procedure........................              87
       Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure .....................             88
Committee on Security and Facilities..........................             . 8
       Child Care Centers in Courthouses ......................              88
       Funding for Courthouse Construction....................               89
Funding ...............................................                      89
Release of Conference Action ...............................                 90
REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES

September 15, 1998


            The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
     D.C., on September 15, 1998, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
     United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and the
     following members of the Conference were present:

            First Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Juan R. Torruella
                    Judge Joseph A. DiClerico,
                           District of New Hampshire

            Second Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Ralph K. Winter, Jr.
                    Judge Peter C. Dorsey,
                           District of Connecticut

            Third Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Edward R. Becker
                    Chief Judge Donald E. Ziegler,
                           Western District of Pennsylvania

            Fourth Circuit:

                    Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III
                    Chief Judge Charles H. Haden 11,
                           Southern District of West Virginia
Judicial Conference ofthe United States



                     Fifth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Henry A. Politz
                                Judge William H. Barbour, Jr.,
                                       Southern District of Mississippi

                     Sixth Circuit:

                               Chief Judge Boyce F. Martin, Jr.
                               Judge Thomas A. Wiseman, Jr.
                                      Middle District of Tennessee

                     Seventh Circuit:

                               Chief Judge Richard A. Posner
                               Judge Robert L. Miller, Jr.,
                                      Northern District of Indiana

                    Eighth Circuit:

                              Chief Judge Pasco M. Bowman 11
                              Judge James M. Rosenbaum,
                                     District of Minnesota

                    Ninth Circuit:

                              Chief Judge Procter Hug, Jr.
                              Judge Lloyd D. George,
                                     District of Nevada

                   Tenth Circuit:

                              Chief Judge Stephanie K. Seymour
                              Judge Ralph G. Thompson,
                                     Western District of Oklahoma




                                                    36
                                                                    September 15, 1998



       Eleventh Circuit:

              Chief Judge Joseph W. Hatchett
              Judge Win. Terrell Hodges,
                     Middle District of Florida

       District of Columbia Circuit:

              Chief Judge Harry T. Edwards
              Chief Judge Norma H-. Johnson,
                     District of Columbia

       Federal Circuit:

               Chief Judge Haldane Robert Mayer

       Court of International Trade:

               Chief Judge Gregory W. Carman

       Circuit Judges Stephen H. Anderson, Emmett R. Cox, W. Eugene Davis,
David R. Hansen, Paul V. Niemeyer, A. Raymond Randolph, Norman H. Stahl,
and David R. Thompson and District Judges Edward B. Davis, Julia S. Gibbons,
John G. Heybumn 11, D. Brock Homby, George P. Kazen, Philip M. Pro,
Alicemarie H. Stotler, and William J. Zloch attended the Conference session.
Collins Fitzpatrick, Circuit Executive for the Seventh Circuit, was also present.

        Senator Orrin G. Hatch spoke on matters pending in Congress of interest
to the Conference. Attorney General Janet Reno addressed the Conference on
matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice.

         Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence A.
Lee, Jr., Associate Director for Management and Operations; William R. Burchill,
Jr., Associate Director and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel, Assistant Director,
Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Michael W. Blommer, Assistant
Director, Legislative Affairs; Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant Director, Judicial
Conference Executive Secretariat; and David Sellers, Deputy Assistant Director,
Public Affairs. Judge Rya W. Zobel, Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also

                                        37
JudicialConference of the United States



          attended the session of the Conference, as did James Duff, Administrative
          Assistant to the Chief Justice; Mary Ann Willis, Supreme Court Staff Counsel;
          and judicial fellows Mary Clark, Paul Fiorelli, Nancy Miller and Christie Warren.



REPORTS

                  Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
          courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office. Judge Zobel spoke to
          the Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs, and Judge Richard
          Conaboy, Chairman of the United States Sentencing Commission, reported on
          Sentencing Commission activities.


EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

          LAW CLERK INTERVIEWS

                 At its September 1993 session (JCUS-SEP 93, p. 49), in an effort to
          improve the law clerk hiring process, the Judicial Conference agreed to
         recommend to all judicial officers that March 1 of the year before a clerkship
         begins be the benchmark starting date for law clerk interviews. The policy is not
         binding on judges, and it has become apparent that it is not universally followed
         and, therefore, is not an accurate reflection of the practice in the courts.
         Moreover, there is no consensus within the judiciary as to whether any alternate
         standardized policy could be more successful in improving the law clerk hiring
         process. On recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Judicial
         Conference rescinded its September 1993 policy recommending that March 1 of
         the year before a clerkship begins be the benchmark starting date for law clerk
         interviews.


         RESOLUTIONS

                 The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
        Committee to adopt the following resolution in recognition of the substantial
        contributions made by Judicial Conference committee chairs who will complete
        their terms of service in 1998:

                                                 38
                                                              September 15, 1498


       The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
appreciation, respect and admiration the following judicial officers:

          HONORABLE A. RAYMOND RANDOLPH
              Committee on Codes of Conduct

               HONORABLE EMMETT R. COX
                Committee on Defender Services

           HONORABLE STEPHEN H. ANDERSON
             Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction

               HONORABLE FRANK J. MACILL
                Committee on Financial Disclosure

               HONORABLE PHILIP M. PRO
 Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System

          HONORABLE ALICEMARIE H. STOTLER
           Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure

         Appointed as committee chairs by Chief Justice William H.
Rehnquist, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role in the
administration of the federal court system. These judges served with
distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference committees while,
at the same time, continuing to perform their duties as judges in their
own courts. They have set a standard of skilled leadership and
earned our deep respect and sincere gratitude for their innumerable
contributions. We acknowledge with appreciation their commitment
and dedicated service to the Judicial Conference and to the entire
federal judiciary.




                                  39
Judicial Conference ofthe United States




          THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STA TES AND ITS
          COMMITTEES

                   In February 1997, the Executive Committee undertook to update and
          codify' numerous Conference and committee practices into a single document
          entitled The Judicial Conference of the United States and its Committees. Drafts
          of the document were distributed by the Committee for comment to Conference
          committee chairs, the Director of the Federal Judicial Center, and the Chief
          Justice, and the Committee addressed concerns raised. On recommendation of the
          Committee, the Conference approved the document, which can be used as a
          source reference for everyone, as well as a teaching device for new committee
          appointees and chairs.


          UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION

                  With the resignation of the Chairman of the United States Sentencing
         Commission, Judge Richard Conaboy, on October 31, 1998, all seven seats on the
         Commission will be vacant. In the Commission's 14-year history, its chairman
         has always been a federal judge. The Executive Committee strongly believes that
         this practice should be maintained in order to preserve the objectivity and
         independence of the Commission and its leadership. On recommendation of the
         Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to urge the President, with the advice
         and consent of the Senate, to continue the longstanding tradition of appointing a
         federal judge to chair the United States Sentencing Commission.


         DATA COLLECTION AND DISSEMINATION

                 Legislative proposals on bankruptcy reform pending in the 105th Congress
         include differing provisions on the collection, publication, and reporting of
         bankruptcy statistics and case data. The proposals are inconsistent as to whether
         certain data on consumer debtors should be collected by the Executive Office for
         United States Trustees or the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
         and provisions dealing with the release of all public record data held by
         bankruptcy clerks in electronic form raise significant privacy issues. On
         recommendation of the Committees on Judicial Resources and the Administration


                                                40
                                                                        September 1S, 1998



of the Bankruptcy System, the Executive Committee approved, on behalf of the
Conference, the adoption of the following position statements to be used in
response to congressional proposals on data collection and dissemination (see also
infrac, "National Bankruptcy Review Commission," pp. 46-58 (regarding
Recommendations 4.1.1-4.1.5)):

        It is the position of the Judicial Conference of the United States
        that the federal judiciary should collect and maintain those data it
        requires for its own operations to fulfill its statutory
        responsibilities. Accordingly, the collection of financial data on
        consumer debtors, if desired by Congress, should be assigned to
        the United States trustee system, which is responsible for
        supervising trustees and estates and approving distributions to
        creditors.

        It is the position of the Judicial Conference of the United States
        that the release of data held by the federal judiciary shall be subject
        to appropriate privacy concerns and safeguards.


MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

        The Executive Committee:

    0   Approved proposed interim financial plans for fiscal year 1999 for the
        Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Fees of Jurors and
        Commissioners, and Court Security accounts, based on appropriations
        levels midway between the House and Senate allowances. The plans are
        to be considered final without further action upon the enactment of a
        judiciary appropriations bill, assuming the appropriations levels are
        sufficient to fund the plans.'

        Approved an amended Memorandum of Understanding with the Federal
        Judicial Center Board and the Federal Judicial Center Foundation Board,



   On October 21, 1998, an omnibus appropriations bill was enacted that included
appropriations for the judiciary's accounts at levels sufficient to fund the approved
financial plans.

                                           41
Judicial Conference of the United Stales



                     which clarifies the roles of the three organizations in administering funds
                     received for the Judicial Conference's benefit, establishes appropriate
                     administrative mechanisms to maintain the separation of funds deposited
                     for Conference use, and broadens the categories of programs for which
                     monies may be received on the Conference's behalf.

                      Provided guidance to the Director of the Administrative Office on the
                     judiciary's response to certain provisions of the "Judicial Reform Act of
                      1998" (H.R. 1252, 1 0 5 'hCongress).

                     Authorized retroactive implementation of a $75 per hour rate for the in-
                     court time of attorneys appointed under the Criminal Justice Act in an
                     unusually complex and extended criminal case in the Southern District of
                     Florida because of the unique and extraordinary circumstances of the case.

                     Approved a recommendation of the Court Administration and Case
                     Management Committee that it take no position on "The Alternative
                     Dispute Resolution Act of 1998" (H.R. 3528, 1 0 5 "hCongress), provided
                     that certain amendments were made, and determined that if the
                     amendments were not made, the bill should be opposed.

                    Agreed, on recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, to
                    revise the fiscal year 1998 Salaries and Expenses financial plan to
                    authorize use of up to $1 million from the reserve to provide information,
                    counseling, and software to judiciary employees who have an opportunity
                    to switch from the Civil Service Retirement System to the Federal
                    Employees Retirement System.

                    On recommendation of the Magistrate Judges Committee and the Ninth
                    Circuit Judicial Council, approved an increase in the salary of the part-
                    time magistrate judge Position at Santa Barbara, California, from Level 4
                    ($31,672 per annum) to Level 1 ($58,065 per annum), and agreed to
                    discontinue the part-time magistrate judge position at San Luis Obispo,
                    California.

                   Approved an exception to the Judicial Conference policy disallowing the
                   use of realtime reporting systems as an official method of recording
                   bankruptcy proceedings (JCUS-MAR 94, p. 16) for a disabled judge in the



                                                     42
                                                                           September 15, 1998



            Southern District of California, and authorized the Director of the
            Administrative Office to grant similar exceptions for disabled judges in
            the future.

        0   As recommended by the Committee on International Judicial Relations,
            approved the use of grant funds from the United States Agency for
            International Development for six rule of law programs; the Judicial
            Conference sponsorship of, and the expenditure of up to $5,000 for, a
            program for Russian judges and administrators; and the use of $15,000 for
            a training needs assessment for Venezuelan judges.

    0       Authorized the creation of six reimbursable positions in the
            Administrative Office for a work measurement project, effective in fiscal
            year 1998, and six reimbursable positions for a benefits project, effective
            in fiscal year 1999.

    *       Expanded to the Northern District of Illinois a community affairs pilot
            program currently approved for two circuit executives' offices.

        *   As a first step in the process of reevaluating the existing policy on
            relocation allowances, approved a request for reimbursement of relocation
            expenses, using local funds, for a new settlement attorney in the First
            Circuit Court of Appeals, and instructed the Director of the Administrative
            Office to prepare a proposal allowing the payment of relocation expenses
            from local funds for certain high-level court personnel.



COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on the Administrative Office was briefed on recent
    Administrative Office activities, including efforts to update the five major court
    staffing formulas; a plan to upgrade the skills and knowledge of procurement
    professionals in the courts and to issue certification warrants; various public
    affairs program initiatives, including expanded use of video and web technology
    and a pilot program for community affairs positions in two circuits and one
    district; and Defender Services program management initiatives. The Committee
    expressed its support for the final plan for implementing the Administrative

                                             43
Judicial Conference of the Uinited States


           Office's new advisory structure and noted ihe Administrative Office's
           accomplishment in developing a streamlined advisory system that will reduce the
           number of permanent groups and allow for timely advice on administrative
           policies and programs from those affected.


COMMITTEE ON AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGY

           COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                   The Committee on Automation and Technology reported on the progress
          of its initiative to facilitate courtroom processes through the use of technology.
          Based on the positive findings of the Electronic Courtroom Project, which
          assessed the current use and applicability of four kinds of technologies- video
          evidence presentation, video conferencing, access to electronic methods of taking
          the record, and access to external databases-in a variety of courtroom settings,
          the Committee requested that the Administrative Office develop guidelines and
          propose a plan for the implementation of courtroom technologies over time. In
          addition, the Committee reviewed progress on efforts to develop and implement
          electronic case files systems for use throughout the judiciary and was advised that
          installation of the judiciary's Data Communication Network (DCN) would be
          completed in September 1998, approximately one year ahead of schedule and
          under anticipated cost.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE BANKRUPTCY
SYSTEM

         BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                In accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(3), the Judicial Conference
         conducts a comprehensive review of all judicial districts every other year to assess
         the continuing need for all authorized bankruptcy judgeships and reports its
         recommendations to Congress for the elimination of any authorized position that
         can be eliminated when a vacancy exists by reason of resignation, retirement,
         removal, or death. As a result of the 1998 continuing need survey, the Committee
         on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System recommended that the Judicial
         Conference recommend to Congress that no bankruptcy judgeship position be

                                                 44
                                                                        September i5, 1998


statutorily eliminated and that the Conference advise the Sixth and Eighth Circuit
Judicial Councils to consider not filling vacancies in the Northern District of Ohio
and the District of South Dakota that currently exist or may occur by reason of
resignation, retirement, removal, or death, until there is a demonstrated need to do
so. The Judicial Conference approved the Committee's recommendation.


INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENT OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

        To implement 28 U.S.C. § 155(a), which authorizes the temporary transfer
of a bankruptcy judge to another district, the Judicial Conference, in September
 1988, approved Guidelines for the Intercircuit Assignments of Bankruptcy Judges
(JCUS-SEP 88, pp. 59-60). On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee,
the Conference approved clarifying and technical amendments to the guidelines as
follows (additions in italics, language omitted is lined-through):

       Guideline 6. The "lender-borrower" rules may be relaxed in
       situations in which (a) a bankruptcy judge has recused himself or
       herself or been disqualified, of ,1cti, e baitupnpty j ade h
       hav (b) the bankruptcy judge to be loaned or borrowed is on been
       recalled recall status to active si. i pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
       § 155(b), or (c) other situations if approved by the affected circuit
       councils.

       Commentary to Guideline 6. 4. Through the recall system,
       retired bankruptcy judges, with their consent,-are may be recalled
       to active service by the LXetfit, f.. 1 llJ   d'~hthy lired. either the
       circuitfrom which the bankruptcyjudge retired or another circuit
       in need of a recalled bankruptcyfudge. The recall system is
       governed by two sets of regulations: One for extended recall of a
       retired bankruptcy judge to active service (i.e., recall to active
       service for a period of three years) and one for recall of a retired
       bankruptcy judge to active service on an ad hoc basis (i.e., recall to
       active service for varying periods, but for no more than one year
       and a day).




                                         45
JudicialConference of the United States




          PLACE OF HF]OLDING BANKRUPTCY COURT

                  The Judicial Conference is authorized to determine the official duty
          stations of bankruptcy judges and places of holding bankruptcy court (28 U.S.C.
          § 152(b)(]1)). At the request of the court and with the approval of the Eighth
          Circuit Judicial Council, the Judicial Conference approved a Bankruptcy
          Committee recommendation that Independence be designated as an additional
          place of holding bankruptcy court in the Northern District of Iowa.


          NATIONAL BANKRUPTCY REVIEW COMMISSION

                  The Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994 established the National Bankruptcy
          Review Commission as an independent commission to investigate and study
          issues and problems relating to the Bankruptcy Code and to prepare a report
          containing its findings, conclusions, and recommendations for legislative or
          administrative action (Public Law No. 103-394, § 603). On October 20, 1997, the
          Report of the National Bankruptcy Review Commission was submitted to the
          President, Congress, and the Chief Justice. The report contains over 170 specific
          recommendations for changes to the present bankruptcy law and system, a number
          of which have a potential impact on the workload and administration of the
          federal courts. The Bankruptcy Committee reviewed all of the Commission
          recommendations, but certain recommendations fall principally within the
         jurisdictions of other Conference committees (i.e., the Committees on Court
          Administration and Case Management, Judicial Resources, and Rules of Practice
          and Procedure) and were referred to those committees for review and
          recommendation.

                  Appellate Review. Two National Bankruptcy Review Commission
         recommendations, 3.1.3 and 3.1.4, were debated at the Conference session. These
         recommendations would fundamentally change the existing bankruptcy appeals
         system by providing for the direct appeal of all final-and certain
         interlocutory-bankruptcy court orders to the courts of appeals (by-passing the
         district courts and the bankruptcy appellate panels). The Bankruptcy Committee
         recommended that the Conference-




                                                 46
                                                                      September 15, 1998


a.     support the concept of one level of appellate review of dispositive orders
       of bankruptcy judges; but

b.     urge that no change in the current appellate process be considered until the
       judiciary has an opportunity to study further the existing process and
       possible alternative structures and to submit a subsequent report to
       Congress; and

C.     seek to include, in any legislation Congress moves to enact which would
       provide for direct appeal of bankruptcy court decisions to the courts of
       appeals, provisions permitting the circuits, at their option and consistent
       with the Constitution, to utilize bankruptcy appellate panels as adjuncts to
       the appellate process or, with the consent of the parties, as dispositive of
       appeals, under guidelines developed by the Judicial Conference.

         The Conference declined to approve the first part (part a) of the
Bankruptcy Committee's recommendation and determined, instead, to endorse a
recommendation of the Court Administration and Case Management Committee
that the Conference support the simplification of appellate review of dispositive
orders of bankruptcy judges. The Conference approved part b of the Bankruptcy
 Committee's recommendation, which would give the judiciary an opportunity to
 study the current process and possible alternatives. Part c of the Bankruptcy
 Committee's recommendation dealing with use of bankruptcy appellate panels
was not approved by the Conference; instead, the Conference, pending completion
of the study, opposed the appeal as of right from dispositive orders of bankruptcy
judges directly to the courts of appeals.

         Other Recommendations. With respect to the remaining National
Bankruptcy Review Commission recommendations with potential impact on the
federal judiciary, on recommendation of the relevant Conference committee,2


2The following committees were given the primary responsibility to review and
make recommendations to the Judicial Conference on National Bankruptcy
Review Commission recommendations, as follows: Court Administration and
Case Management - Recommendations 2.4.7 and 3.3.4; Judicial Resources -
Recommendations 4. 1.1 through 4.1.5; Rules of Practice and Procedure -
Recommendations 1.1.4, 2.3.2, 2.4.9, 2.4.10, 2.5.2, 2.5.3, and 4.2.3; and
Administration of the Bankruptcy System - all remaining recommendations.

                                        47
Judicial Conference of the Unied Stales


                                                                3
          the Judicial Conference took the following positions:

                     With regard to Commission Recommendation 1..1.1 (concerning the
                     establishment of a national filing system), agreed that there is a value in a
                     national filing system that would provide each case with a unique
                     identifier, to the extent that this can be done with proper regard for
                     safeguarding the privacy of sensitive personal information.

                     With regard to Commission Recommendation 1..1.2 (concerning random
                     audits of debtors' schedules), expressed general support for measures
                     designed to enhance the integrity of the bankruptcy system, while
                     cautioning that new duties should not be imposed on bankruptcy trustees
                     without providing additional resources to those trustees for the additional
                     work.

                    With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.1.3 (concerning the filing
                    of false claims by creditors), took no position on this recommendation for
                    a change in substantive bankruptcy law because it concerns a matter of
                    public policy that is best addressed by Congress, but informed Congress
                    that implementation of this recommendation could result in more litigation
                    over objections to claims, which would increase the workload of judges
                    and clerks.

                    With regard to Commission Recommendation 1..1.4 (concerning systems
                    administration of consumer bankruptcies), expressed thanks for the
                    endorsement of the 1997 amendments to Bankruptcy Rule 9011, and
                    agreed to follow procedures set forth in the Rules Enabling Act, 28 U.S.C.
                    §§ 207 1-2077, for considering further amendments and recommending
                    them to the Supreme Court.

                    With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.1.5 (concerning financial
                    education programs for debtors), expressed general support for the
                    principle of greater access to financial education for debtors, but stated
                    that if the Congress authorizes such programs, it also should specify by
                    whom they can be provided and how they are to be funded.



            The Judicial Conference took no position on Commission recommendations not
          addressed below.

                                                      48
                                                                September 15, 1998


With regard to Commission Recommendations 1.2.1 and 1.2.2
(concerning the debtor's ability to exempt certain property), expressed
general support for measures designed to treat debtors equally and to
enhance the integrity of the bankruptcy system and the public's perception
of integrity in the system, but took no position on these recommendations
for changes in substantive bankruptcy law because they concern matters of
public policy that are best addressed by Congress.

With regard to Commission Recommendations 1.2.5 (concerning the
debtor's ability to exempt funds held in a trust) and 1.2.6 (concerning the
debtor's ability to exempt certain property), expressed general support for
the principle of affording debtors a "fresh start" after bankruptcy, but took
no position on these recommendations for changes in substantive
bankruptcy law because they concern matters of public policy that are best
addressed by Congress.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.3.1 (concerning
reaffirmation agreements), supported the enactment of amendments to
section 524(d) of the Bankruptcy Code to require appropriate
documentation of a motion to approve a reaffirmation agreement and to
clarify when a court must hold a reaffirmation hearing, but took no
position on the merits of amending section 524(c) to specify the standard
for approval by the court of a proposed reaffirmation agreement. In
addition, the Conference allowed the procedure for prescribing an official
form under Federal Rule of Bankruptcy Procedure 9009 to go forward.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.3.4 (concerning security
interests in household goods), took no position on this recommendation
for a change in substantive bankruptcy law because it concerns a matter of
public policy that is best addressed by Congress, but agreed to advise
Congress that implementation of the recommendation would likely
increase the number of valuation hearings held by bankruptcy judges, and
to urge Congress to specify, in any implementing legislation, the valuation
standard to be applied.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.4.3 (concerning the
disehargeability of debts for the payment of criminal restitution orders),
took no position on this recommendation for a change in substantive



                                 49
Judicial Conference of the United States


                      bankruptcy law because it concerns a matter of public policy that is best
                      addressed by Congress.

                     With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.4.4 (concerning the
                     dischargeability of family support obligations), took no position on this
                     recommendation for a change in substantive bankruptcy law because it
                     concerns a matter of public policy that is best addressed by Congress, but
                     expressed support for clarification of the current confusing statutory
                     scheme governing the nondischargeability of family support obligations.

                     With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.4.5 (concerning
                     the dischargeability of student loans), took no position on this
                     recommendation for a change in substantive bankruptcy law because it
                     concerns a matter of public policy that is best addressed by Congress, but
                     noted that the repeal of section 523(a)(8) of the Bankruptcy Code would
                     reduce litigation.

                     With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.4.6 (concerning pre-
                     bankruptcy default judgments), expressed support for a uniform standard
                     for issue preclusion with regard to dischargeability complaints filed in the
                     bankruptcy courts, as well as other types of adversary proceedings.

                     With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.4.8 (concerning the period
                    of time for objecting to the debtor's discharge), took no position on this
                    recommendation for a change in substantive bankruptcy law because it
                    concerns a matter of public policy that is best addressed by Congress, but
                    noted that the suggested change appears unnecessary because the
                    Bankruptcy Code already provides creditors a one-year period after the
                    debtor's discharge to seek revocation of the discharge, and also noted that
                    the recommended change would create a new degree of uncertainty with
                    respect to the finality of bankruptcy cases.

                    With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.4.9 (concerning proposed
                    new requirements for dismissing objections to discharge), supported the
                    recommendation to amend section 727 of the Bankruptcy Code on the
                    basis that it should enhance the integrity of the bankruptcy system.

                    With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.5.2 (concerning the
                    valuation of collateral), took no position on the merits of the specific

                                                      50
                                                               September 15, 1998


valuation standards proposed by the Commission, but acknowledged the
need for some uniform valuation standard.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.5.3 (concerning the rate of
interest to be paid to secured creditors), expressed support for a uniform
national standard regarding the appropriate rate of interest that will give a
secured creditor the present value of its allowed secured claim, but took no
position on what that standard should be.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.5.6 (concerning the
authority of the bankruptcy court to issue in rem orders), urged that
Congress defer action on this Commission recommendation until fuirther
study can be made of the due process concerns raised by the proposal.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.5.8 (concerning the
reporting of bankruptcy filings by credit reporting agencies), supported
amendments to the Fair Credit Reporting Act that would require credit
reporting agencies to report chapter 13 filings differently from chapter 7
filings, and supported a requirement that credit reporting agencies note on
credit reports the fact that debtors have completed voluntary debtor
education programs.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 1.5.9 (concerning the
establishment of credit rehabilitation programs by trustees), expressed
general support for measures designed to assist debtors in reestablishing
credit after bankruptcy, while cautioning that new duties should not be
imposed on bankruptcy trustees without providing the means for
accomplishing those objectives.

With regard to Commission Recommendations 2. 1.1 through 2.1.5
(concerning the treatment of mass future claims in bankruptcy), agreed to
inform Congress that it is currently studying the issues associated with
mass tort litigation (through an ad hoc Mass Torts Working Group), and
that it will defer any comment on these recommendations until that study
is concluded. The Conference also noted that the proposal in Commission
Recommendation 2.1.2 would create additional ancillary litigation as to
the appointment or removal of a mass future claims representative and
would add appreciably to the work of the bankruptcy judges and the
clerks' staff.


                                 51
Judicial Conference of the United States


                      With regard to Commission Recommendation 2.3.2 (concerning consent
                      of former partners), voted to urge Congress, if it enacts legislation, to defer
                      to the provisions of the Rules Enabling Act for any procedural rules that
                      may be required to implement changes in the Bankruptcy Code.

                      With regard to Commission Recommendation 2.3.3 (concerning the
                     jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court in partnership cases), expressed
                     support, in the interest of judicial economy and efficient case
                     administration, for centralizing the determination of the rights and
                     liabilities of general partners to partnership creditors and to each other in
                     the partnership bankruptcy case. The Conference opposed specifically
                     designating these matters as core matters under 28 U.S.C. § 157(b), noting
                     that doing so may raise jurisdictional concerns in the context of
                     adjudicating contribution claims among nondebtor general partners who
                     have not filed proofs of claim or otherwise consented to the jurisdiction of
                     the bankruptcy court.

                     With regard to Commission Recommendations 2.3.14 and 2.3.16
                     (concerning partnership cases), took no position on these
                     recommendations for changes in substantive bankruptcy law because they
                     concern matters of public policy that are best addressed by Congress, but
                     expressed opposition to legislation that would amend the federal rules of
                     procedure without following the procedures prescribed in the Rules
                     Enabling Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 2071-2077.

                     With regard to Commission Recommendations 2.3.18 and 2.3.19
                     (concerning partnership cases), expressed general support for improving
                     the administration of partnership cases, and urged that the extent, form,
                     and timing of disclosure by nondebtor general partners be left to the
                     rulemaking process prescribed in the Rules Enabling Act, 28 U.S.C.
                     §§ 2071-2077.

                    With regard to Commission Recommendation 2.3.20 (concerning
                    partnership cases), expressed general support for a statutory clarification of
                    the treatment of limited liability company (LLC) members and LLC
                    managers under the Bankruptcy Code, but took no position on whether
                    LLC members in member-managed LLCs and LLC managers in manager-
                    managed LLCs should be treated like general partners under the Code.


                                                       52
                                                                September 15, 1998



With regard to Commission Recommendation 2.4.6 (concerning the need
to hold a meeting of creditors in chapter 11I cases), opposed the
Commission's recommendation to amend section 341 of the Bankruptcy
Code to empower the bankruptcy courts to issue orders waiving meetings
of creditors in "pre-packaged" chapter II cases due to concerns that the
proposal (a) is inconsistent with existing section 34 1(c), which divests the
bankruptcy courts of power over the section 341 meetings; (b) appears to
favor corporate "pre-packaged" plan debtors over other parties in interest
in bankruptcy cases; and (c) would generate more hearings on motions to
waive section 341 meetings on an expedited or emergency basis, thus
requiring from the courts additional judicial and clerical resources.

Reaffirmed support for the use of alternative dispute resolution, but
opposed Commission Recommendation 2.4.7 (concerning local mediation
programs).

With regard to Commission Recommendation 2.4.8 (concerning creditors'
committees), supported the recommendation to empower the bankruptcy
court to order a change in membership of creditors' committees to ensure
adequate representation of creditors, even though implementation of the
recommendation may generate increased litigation.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 2.4.9 (concerning employee
participation in bankruptcy cases), agreed to inform Congress that the
schedules that must be filed by a debtor (Official Form 6) already require
disclosure of employee-related obligations and that action on the
Commission's recommendation is unnecessary.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 2.4.10 (concerning
enhancing the efficacy of examiners and limiting the grounds for
appointment of examiners in chapter 11 cases), restated support for
limiting the circumstances under which a trustee or trustee's own firm can
be retained as a professional by the trustee, but took no position on this
recommendation to permit examiners to retain professionals under the
same standards that govern the retention of other professionals, because
such a change in substantive bankruptcy law concerns a matter of public
policy that is best addressed by Congress. Wit respect to the
recommendation to consider an amendment to Bankruptcy Rule 2004, the
Conference noted that the recommendation is addressed directly to the
Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules, which has considered the
                                  53
Judicial Conference of the United Stoles



                     matter and determined, for the time being, simply to monitor any case law
                     that develops and, accordingly, urged Congress to defer to the provisions
                     of the Rules Enabling Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 2071-2077.

                     With respect to Commission Recommendation 2.5.2 (concerning flexible
                     rules for disclosure statements and plans), expressed support for
                     authorizing the bankruptcy courts to exercise greater flexibility in
                     managing small business cases under chapter 11, but urged Congress, if it
                     enacts legislation, to defer to the provisions of the Rules Enabling Act,
                     28 U.S.C. §§ 207 1-2077, for any procedural rules or official forms that
                     may be required to implement changes in the Bankruptcy Code.

                      With respect to Commission Recommendation 2.5.3 (concerning reporting
                     requirements for small business debtors), took no position on the merits of
                     the recommendation, but urged Congress, if it enacts legislation on the
                     subject of small business cases under chapter II of the Bankruptcy Code,
                     to defer to the provisions of the Rules Enabling Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 2071 -
                     2077, for any procedural rules or official forms that may be required to
                     implement changes in the Bankruptcy Code.

                     With regard to Commission Recommendation 2.5.7 (concerning a
                     proposed requirement that the court conduct a scheduling conference in
                     chapter 11I small business cases), indicated its support for scheduling
                     conferences as a valuable case management tool, but opposed mandatory
                     scheduling conferences on grounds that they are not necessary in every
                     ease, could use court and judicial time unnecessarily, and would infringe
                     on the judges' discretion to manage their cases.

                     With regard to Commission Recommendation 2.5.9 (concerning the basis
                     for dismissal or conversion of chapter I11 small business cases), took no
                     position on this recommendation for a change in substantive bankruptcy
                     law, but opposed the time deadlines that would be set forth in 11I U.S.C.
                     § 11 12(b)(3), if that section were modified in accordance with the
                     Commission recommendation.

                    With regard to Commission Recommendation 2.5. 10 (concerning the
                    powers and duties of the United States trustee or bankruptcy administrator
                    in chapter I11 small business cases), supported the recommendation for an
                    enhanced role of the United States trustees and the bankruptcy

                                                     54
                                                                Sepiember 13, 1998



administrators in chapter I11 small business cases, but noted that efficient
procedures for administering chapter 11I cases already exist, to a large
extent, in the bankruptcy administrator program.

With regard to Commission Recommendations 3.1.1 and 3.1 .2
(concerning the establishment of Article III bankruptcy courts and the
transition to that status), strongly opposed the Commission's
recommendation that bankruptcy courts be established under Article III of
the Constitution.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 3.1.5 (concerning the
appropriate venue for corporate debtors), urged that Congress defer action
on the recommended change in the venue statutes until there is additional
published scholarship on the subject, because the data now available do
not clearly support the need for any statutory change.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 3.2.2 (concerning venue for
preference actions), took no position on this recommendation for a change
in substantive bankruptcy law because it concerns a matter of public policy
that is best addressed by Congress.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 3.3.1 (concerning the
United States trustee program), reiterated its longstanding position that
placement of the United States trustee program as an independent office in
the judicial branch is essential to sound case management and effective
administration of estates in bankruptcy cases, but took no position on the
specific recommendations concerning the United States trustee program.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 3.3.3 (concerning the
qualification of attorneys, accountants, and other professionals), took no
position on the Commission recommendation regarding the qualification
of professionals under I11 U.S.C. § 1107(b), but noted that enactment of
the Commission recommendation could increase litigation over whether a
prospective professional's interest or equity interest in the debtor is
"insubstantial," thereby increasing the judicial and clerical workloads of
the courts.

Opposed Commission Recommendation 3.3.4 (concerning nationwide
admission to practice), and instead encouraged bankruptcy courts to

                                   55
Judicial Conference of/the United States



                      review their local rules in order to streamline the process of admission for
                      non-resident attorneys who want to appear in a particular proceeding.

                      With regard to Commission Recommendation 3.3.5 (concerning the
                     appointment of fee examiners), recommended that legislative action to
                     preclude the appointment of fee examiners in bankruptcy cases and
                     proceedings be deferred pending further study, noting the burdensome,
                     time-consuming nature of the requirement that bankruptcy judges conduct
                     an independent review of bankruptcy fee applications.

                     With regard to Commission Recommendation 3.3.6 (concerning attorney
                     referral programs), supported the amendment of I11 U.S.C. § 504 to permit
                     an attorney compensated out of a bankruptcy estate to remit a percentage
                     of such compensation to a bona fide, nonprofit, public service referral
                     program.

                    With regard to Commission Recommendations 4.1.1 through 4.1.5
                    (concerning data compilation and dissemination), opposed as unnecessary
                    the appointment of a third-party data collection coordinator because
                    sufficient mechanisms exist and are being employed currently for
                    coordination between the Administrative Office and the Executive Office
                    for United States Trustees on bankruptcy data compilation and
                    dissemination matters. The Conference also opposed as unnecessary the
                    enactment of legislation requiring electronic public access to bankruptcy
                    data because efforts are already underway in the judiciary to establish
                    electronic access at the lowest possible cost.

                    With regard to Commission Recommendation 4.2.1 (concerning notice to
                    governmental units of bankruptcy cases), expressed support for efforts to
                    ensure that all parties to a bankruptcy case, including governmental
                    entities, receive adequate notice of bankruptcy cases, including a
                    requirement that clerks' offices be required to take reasonable steps to
                    prepare and update local registries of governmental entities to which
                    notice should be given, but recommended that the establishment of such a
                    mechanism be left to the rulemaking process under the Rules Enabling
                    Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 2071-2077.

                    With regard to Commission Recommendation 4.2.3 (concerning taxation
                    and the Bankruptcy Code), expressed general support for the principle of

                                                      56
                                                               September 15, 1998


facilitating adequate and effective notice in bankruptcy cases to
governmental units and noted that proposed amendments to the Federal
Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure that would provide better notice to all
federal and state governmental units have been published for comment.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 4.2.7 (concerning trust fund
taxes), supported a requirement that small business debtors be required to
create and maintain separate bank accounts for trust fund taxes and nontax
deductions from employee paychecks, and supported appropriate sanctions
for violations of the segregation requirement, but recommended that the
harsh sanction of removal from the trustee panel be reserved for egregious
cases.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 4.2.20 (concerning chapter
11I disclosure statements), supported the establishment of standards for tax
disclosures in chapter 11I disclosure statements, limited to cases in which
an accountant for the debtor in possession has been appointed, on grounds
that such a requirement would make it easier for bankruptcy judges to
evaluate and approve disclosure statements.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 4.2.24 (concerning abusive
serial filings), supported amendment of the Bankruptcy Code to give
bankruptcy judges discretion to dismiss abusive serial filings with
prejudice to refiling under chapter 13 or I11 for a period determined by the
court, but recommended that any bar to refiling should be limited to a
specific period of time (such as three years).

With regard to Commission Recommendation 4.2.35 (concerning the
authority of bankruptcy courts to grant declaratory relief), took no position
on this recommendation for a change in substantive bankruptcy law
because it concerns a matter of public policy that is best addressed by
Congress, but advised Congress that giving bankruptcy judges the power
to issue declaratory judgments on prospective tax issues may require
additional judicial resources to hear and resolve such matters.

With regard to Commission Recommendation 4.3.2 (concerning chapter 9
municipal bankruptcy cases), took no position on this recommendation for
a change in substantive bankruptcy law, but recommended that Congress
resolve the apparent conflict between sections 901 and 921 (d) of the
Bankruptcy Code.
                                  57
Judicial Conference of the United States


                      With regard to Commission Recommendation 4.3.4 (concerning the
                      appointment of the presiding judge in chapter 9 cases), opposed the
                      recommended deletion of section 92 1(b) of the Bankruptcy Code and
                      instead supported the current statutory scheme, which requires the chief
                     judge of the court of appeals to designate a bankruptcy judge to conduct
                      each chapter 9 case.

                     With regard to Commission Recommendation 4.4.1 (concerning chapter
                     12 family farmer cases), supported the recommended increase in the
                     chapter 12 debt limits and the proposal to make chapter 12 a permanent
                     part of the Bankruptcy Code.

                     With regard to Commission Recommendation 4.4.2 (concerning chapter
                     12 family farmer cases), generally supported the Commission' s
                     recommendation to provide some consistent, fair, national standard for
                     calculating the chapter 12 trustee's statutory percentage fee, but did not
                     take a position on what specific standard is appropriate.


COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

          FISCAL YEAR 2000 BUDGET REQUEST

                 In recognition of congressional funding constraints, the Budget Committee
         reduced and adjusted the program committees' proposed funding levels for the
         fiscal year 2000 budget request. The Judicial Conference approved the Budget
         Committee's lower budget request for fiscal year 2000, subject to amendments
         necessary as a result of new legislation, actions of the Judicial Conference, or
         other reasons the Director of the Administrative Office considers necessary and
         appropriate.


         COST CONTROL MONITORING SYSTEM

                  Currently, under the Cost Control Monitoring System (CCMS), when a
         new work unit is authorized for a program, it is funded at the national average for
         all position types in that program. For settlement conference attorneys, the effect
         of this policy is that the national average includes the averages for afttorneys as
         well as support staff and thus does not provide sufficient funds to hire an attorney

                                                     58
                                                                          September 15, 1998



when a new one is authorized for these small offices. In order to address the
funding difficulties created by CCMS in conference attorney offices, the Judicial
Conference approved a Budget Committee recommendation that the Conference
revise the CCMS formula for determining funding levels for settlement
conference attorney offices to provide separate national average salaries for
conference attorneys and for support staff, effective in fiscal year 1999.


CERTIFYING OFFICER LEGISLATION

          In May 1997, the Executive Committee of the Judicial Conference agreed
on behalf of the Judicial Conference to seek an amendment to title 28 permitting
                                                                              in the
the Director of the Administrative Office to designate certifying officers
                                                                    would  fix
judiciary (JCUS-SEP 97, p. 50). Enactment of such legislation
responsibility between individuals requesting goods and services and those
                                                                                  the
actually approving payment for those goods and services, and would afford
judiciary's disbursing officers the personal liability protection executive branch
                                                                                      that
 disbursing officers have enjoyed for many years. Concern has been expressed
                                                                                 a chief
 this provision as endorsed by the Conference could reduce the authority of
judge to manage his or her court. To avoid this result, the Judicial Conference
                                                                                       of
 approved a Budget Committee recommendation that, in the event of enactment
                                                                            should
 certifying officer legislation, the Director of the Administrative Office
                                                                                   in a
 consult with the chief judge before designating additional certifying officers
 district court.


FUNDING FOR TRIBAL COURTS

        There is currently little federal funding provided to tribal court systems.
The federal judiciary has a stake in ensuring that adequate funding is provided
                                                                           could come
because in the event tribal court systems fail, a large number of filings
                                                                                  the
under the federal courts' jurisdiction. On recommendation of the Committee,
Judicial Conference expressed its support for the appropriation    of adequate
funding for tribal courts.




                                            59
Judicial Conference of the United States



COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT

           CODE OF CONDUCT FOR FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDER EMPLOYEES

                  Canon 6 of the Code of Conduct for Federal Public Defender Employees
          does not currently allow federal public defender offices to accept the voluntary,
          uncompensated services of individuals on paid leaves of absence from private
          firms. Such volunteer arrangements are permitted in U.S. attorneys' offices.
          Noting that the interest of governmental parity and the lack of any overriding
          ethical concerns favor an exemption similar to that contained in the provisions
          governing the U.S. attorneys' offices, the Committee on Codes of Conduct
          recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, a revision to the second
          paragraph of Canon 6 of the Federal Public Defender Employees Code as follows
          (new language is italicized):

                     Notwithstanding the above, a defender employee (other than a
                     defender employee serving without compensation) should not
                     receive any salary, or any supplementation of salary, as
                     compensation for official government services from any source
                     other than the United States.

          This revision is not limited to attorneys and thus would apply to investigators,
          paralegals, and other defender staff.


         JUDGES' RECUSAL OBLIGATIONS

                  A series of news articles published in the spring of 1998 focused the
         attention of the judiciary on judges' recusal obligations. The Committee on
         Codes of Conduct addressed issues arising from the responsibility of judges to
         ensure their compliance with financial conflict of interest rules. The Committee
         does not believe that any ethical principles require judges to make their recusal
         lists available to the public at their courthouses, but agreed that the Committee
         should focus its efforts on assisting judges in meeting their recusal
         responsibilities. Such efforts include increased education of'judges about recusal
         responsibilities, including periodic reminders encouraging judges to create and
         update recusal lists; development of a model or standardized checklist to be
         distributed to all judges for use in drawing up recusal lists; and development of
         automated systems, including software programs, budget and staff permitting, for
                                                   60
                                                                          September 13, 1998



   use in chambers or clerks' offices to compare judges' recusal lists to their court
   dockets.

           After discussion, the Judicial Conference determined to refer for review by
    the Committees on Codes of Conduct and Financial Disclosure the following
    recommendation:

           That the Judicial Conference encourage all courts to maintain in
           the clerk's office, to be available to the litigants upon written
           request, a list for each judge of the companies in which the judge,
           individually or as a fiduciary, or the judge's spouse, or a minor
           child residing in the household, has a financial interest requiring
           recusal.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            Since its last report to the Conference in March 1998, the Committee on
    Codes of Conduct received 40 new written inquiries and issued 37 written
    advisory responses. The average response time for inquiries was 20 days. The
    Chairman received and responded to 29 telephonic inquiries. In addition,
    individual Committee members responded to 98 inquiries from their colleagues.


COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
AND CASE MANAGEMENT

    METHODS ANALYSIS PROGRAM - JURY ADMINISTRATION

            The Methods Analysis Program (MAP) identifies "better practices" for
    performing the work of the courts and encourages court units to adopt these or
    similar practices utilized by individual courts. A MAP work group of court
    personnel developed a number of ideas to improve the jury administration
    function, some of which would require legislation or changes to the federal rules.
    The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management made
    recommendations on three of these proposals.

            The first MAP proposal addressed by the Committee concerned the
    delegation of authority to make determinations on the qualification,
                                            61
Judicial Conference of the United Slates


           disqualification, exemption and/or excuse of jurors. The Jury Selection and
           Service Act (Jury Act) authorizes the chief judge of the district court, or another
           district court judge as the court's jury plan may provide, to determine whether a
           person is qualified, unqualified, exempt, or excused permanently from jury service
           (28 U.S.C. § 1865). Satisfied that districts delegating this authority to clerks of
           court would continue to adhere to the principles of nondiscrimination by using the
           required objective criteria, the Committee recommended that the Judicial
           Conference propose legislation to amend 28 U.S.C. § 1865 to permit the chief
          judge to authorize the clerk of court, under supervision of the court and if the
           court's jury plan so authorizes, to determine whether persons are qualified or
           unqualified for, exempt from, or to be excused from jury service. The Conference
           concurred in the Committee's recommendation.

                   The second MAP proposal dealt with elimination of the requirement set
          forth in the July Act at 28 U.S.C. §§ 1864(a) and 1866(a), that clerks shall
           "publicly draw at random" from the master wheel and qualified wheel the names
          of persons required for jury service. "Publicly draw" is defined in 2 8 U. S.C.
          § 1869(k) as a "drawing which is conducted.. .after reasonable public notice and
          which is open to the public." With advanced computer technology, more courts
          are moving to a purely randomized method for selecting juries, and it is unlikely
          that the public has any interest in attending a drawing. On recommendation of the
          Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to propose legislation to amend the
          Jury Act to eliminate the public drawing requirements for selecting names from
          the master and qualified jury wheels, provided there is public notice of the process
          by which names are periodically drawn.

                 The third MAP proposal involved the automatic excuse from jury service
         now granted to members of the armed forces in the Jury Act (28 U.S.C.
          § 1863(b)(6)). Barring any individual from jury duty seems excessive, and
         circumstances have changed in the last decade so that military personnel have
         more flexibility to accommodate jury service without interfering with their official
         duties. Under 10 U.S.C. § 982, the Department of Defense has the authority to
         make a determination whether military duties require a service member to be
         exempt from service on a state or local jury; however, title 10 does not apply to
         service on federal juries. On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
         agreed to propose legislation to amend the Jury Act to eliminate the automatic
         excuse from service now granted to members of the armed forces in active service
         under 28 U.S.C. § 1863(b)(6) on the ground that they are exempt, and support a
         related amendment to 10 U.S.C. § 982 to refer to federal jury service.

                                                  62
                                                                      September 15, 1998




COMPOSITION OF CIRCUIT COUNCILS

          Implementation Strategy 50a(2) of the Long Range Planfor the Federal
Courts, approved by the Judicial Conference in September 1995 (JCUS-SEP 95,
p. 52), states that "each circuit judicial council should have an equal number of
district and circuit judge members, including the chief circuit judge." Despite its
inclusion in proposed court improvement bills, the implementation strategy has
not yet been enacted by Congress. The Court Administration and Case
Management Committee received a request, based on concerns for the possibility
of impasse in the councils' deliberative processes, that it recommend to the
Conference modification of this position. The Committee was of the view that the
Conference position, as espoused in the Long Range Plan, remains desirable, and
made no recommendation to the Conference for change. However, after debate at
the session, the Conference determined that the current language of 28 U.S.C.
 § 332(a), which provides that a circuit judicial council shall consist of "the chief
judge of the circuit, who shall preside, and an equal number of circuit judges and
 district judges of the circuit," should be retained.


STATISTICAL REPORTING OF SOCIAL SECURITY APPEALS

         Social security appeals are not currently required to be included in the
statistical reporting system adopted to meet the requirements of the Civil Justice
Reform Act (CJRA), except when a motion filed in the case is pending more than
six months, or when a case is pending more than three years. Until recently,
bankruptcy appeals were similarly excluded; however, in March 1998, the Judicial
Conference adopted a recommendation requiring all bankruptcy appeals pending
over six months in the district court to be included in the CJRA statistical reports
(JCUS-MAR 98, p. 11). Noting that including social security appeals in public
reports may encourage courts to remain attentive to their prompt disposition, the
Court Administration and Case Management Committee recommended, and the
Judicial Conference agreed, that social security appeals be included in CJRA
public reports in the same way as motions in civil cases, but that the pending date
from which the six-month clock begins to run be set at 60 days after the filing of
the transcript.




                                          63
Judicial Conference of the United States




           MISCELLANEOUS FEE SCHEDULES

                   Internet Fee for Electronic Access to Court Information. The
           miscellaneous fee schedules for the appellate, district and bankruptcy courts, the
           U.S. Court of Federal Claims, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
          provide a fee for public access to court electronic records (PACER) (28 U.s.c.
           §§ 1913, 1914, 1926, 193O and 1932). The revenue from these fees is used
          exclusively to fund the full range of electronic public access (EPA) services.
          With the introduction of Internet technology to the judiciary's current public
          access program, the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
          recommended that a new Internet PACER fee be established to maintain the
          current public access revenue while introducing new technologies to expand
          public accessibility to PACER information. On the Committee's
          recommendation, the Judicial Conference approved an amendment to the
          miscellaneous fee schedules for the appellate, district and bankruptcy courts, the
          U.S. Court of Federal Claims, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation to
          establish an Internet PACER fee of $.07 per page for public users obtaining
          PACER information through a federal judiciary Internet site.

                 The Committee also addressed the issue of what types of data or
         information made available for electronic public access should have an associated
         fee and what types of data should be provided at no cost. On recommendation of
         the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to include the following language
         as addenda to the same miscellaneous fee schedules:

                    a. The Judicial Conference has prescribed a fee for access to court
                    data obtained electronically from the public dockets of individual
                    case records in the court, except as provided below.

                    b. Courts may provide other local court information at no cost. For
                    example:

                         *     local rules,
                         *     court forms,
                         *     news items,
                         *     court calendars,
                         *     opinions designated by the court for publication, and



                                                        64
                                                                      Septemnber 15, 1998



           *   other information-such as court hours, court location,
               telephone listings-determined locally to benefit the public
               and the court.

        Court of Federal Claims. In September 1997, the Judicial Conference
approved an amendment to the district court and bankruptcy court miscellaneous
fee schedules to increase the fee for exempli fi cations to twice the amount of the
fee for certifications (ICUS-SEP 97, p. 59). The miscellaneous fee schedule for
the United States Court of Federal Claims also contains a provision on fees for
exemplifications and certifications, which was inadvertently excluded from this
Conference action. At this session, the Conference approved a Committee
recommendation that the Conference amend Item 3 of the United States Court of
Federal Claims miscellaneous fee schedule to make the fee for certification of any
document or paper, where the certification is made directly on the document or by
separate instrument, $5 '~and the fee for exemplification of any document or paper
twice the amount of the fee for certification.

        The Court of Federal Claims was also omitted from action taken by the
Conference in March 1993 amending the miscellaneous fee schedule for district
courts to increase the fees for admission to practice and for duplicate
admission certificates and certificates of good standing (JCUS-MAR 93, p. 6).
Since the miscellaneous fee schedule for the Court of Federal Claims contains
similar provisions, at this session the Conference approved the Committee's
recommendation that the Conference raise the attorney admission fee, prescribed
in Item 4 of the United States Court of Federal Claims miscellaneous fee
schedule, to $50 and the fee for a duplicate certificate of admission or certificate
of good standing to $15, provided that legislation permitting the judiciary to retain
any increase in fees collected under the miscellaneous fee schedules is enacted.


CONSOLIDATION        -   SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA

       At its March 1998 session, the Judicial Conference adopted procedures for
combining ffinctions in the district and bankruptcy courts. The procedures
provide for the review of requests for the consolidation of district and bankruptcy


'The Judicial Conference, in September 1996, approved an inflationary increase of
this fee to $7.00, provided legislation is enacted permitting the judiciary to retain
the resulting increase (JCUS-SEP 96, p. 54).
                                           65
Judici Conference of the tinted States



          court clerks' offices by the Judicial Conference, as required by 28 U.S.C. § 156(d)
          (JCUS-MAR 98, pp. 10-11). Pursuant to these procedures, the Southern District
          of West Virginia submitted to the Judicial Council of the Fourth Circuit a plan to
          consolidate the administrative and operational functions of the district court and
          bankruptcy court clerks' offices and the probation office. The Judicial Council
          unanimously approved the request, and the plan was referred to the Committee on
          Court Administration and Case Management to review in consultation with the
          Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System. On recommendation
          of the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management, the Judicial
          Conference approved the consolidation plan submitted by the Southern District of
          West Virginia and agreed to refer it to Congress for approval.


COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW

          COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                 The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it had reviewed and
         commented on the Methods Analysis Program study of pretrial services
         investigation and report-writing functions, in which 34 suggested "better
         practices" had been developed by a work group and assessed in the courts. The
         Committee also reviewed and agreed to distribute the Directory of Cooperative
         and Sharing Arrangements in Districts with Separate PretrialServices and
         ProbationOffices and the Appendix to the Directory to chief district judges and
         chief probation and pretrial services officers. The Committee was briefed on
         several additional matters, including an update on Federal Judicial Center and
         Administrative Office efforts to undertake a study on the viability and reliability
         of various case tools to assist officers with the pretrial services supervision
         function, and a report prepared by the Federal Bureau of Investigation to the
         Congress on implementing the collection of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)
         samples from federal felony offenders.




                                                  66
                                                                           September 15, 1998



COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES

    PANEL ATTORNEY ADMINISTRATION

             In March 1997, the Judicial Conference approved a two-year pilot project
     in the Central District of California and the District of Maryland that provides
     funding for an attorney in each district to assist the court in Criminal Justice Act
     (CJA) panel administration and case cost analysis (JCUS-MAR 97, p. 24). At this
     session, on recommendation of the Committee on Defender Services, the Judicial
     Conference agreed to approve shifting the funding source for the project,
    beginning in fiscal year 1999, from the Defender Services appropriation to the
    judiciary's Salaries and Expenses account, and to extend the duration of the pilot
    project through March 2002, supported by approximately $701,500 from the
                                                                                       5
     Salaries and Expenses account, in order to permit adequate time for evaluation.


    DEFENDER ORGANIZATION FUNDING REQUESTS

            Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR
    89, pp. 16-17), the Defender Services Committee approved $125,800 to establish
    two federal public defender organizations and an increase of $300,800 to the fiscal
    year 1998 budget of another federal public defender organization.


    FEDERAL DEATH PENALTY CASES

            In response to judicial and congressional concerns about the increasing
    cost of death penalty representation, a subcommittee of the Defender Services
    Committee conducted a year-long study of the costs, availability, and quality of
    appointed counsel in federal death penalty cases. The report of the subcommittee,
    entitled FederalDeath Penalty Cases: Recommendations Concerning the Cost
    and Quality of Defense Representation, identified specific steps to be taken in
    order to ensure that expenditures in federal death penalty cases remain within
    reasonable limits. On recommendation of the Defender Services Committee, the



    'Funding for two similar positions, one each in ffie Northern District of California
    and the Ninth Circuit, was authorized in April 1998 on a four-year, temporary
    basis. These two positions will be included in the assessment of the pilot project.
                                             67
Jujdicial Conference of the United States


           Judicial Conference approved the following recommendations identified in the
           report, and authorized public release of the report:

            1. Qualifications for Appointment

                 a. Ouality of Counsel. Courts should ensure that all attorneys appointed in
                    federal death penalty cases are well qualified, by virtue of their prior
                    defense experience, training and commitment, to serve as counsel in this
                    highly specialized and demanding type of litigation. High-quality legal
                    representation is essential to assure fair and final verdicts, as well as cost-
                    effective case management.

                 b. Onalifications of Counsel. As required by statute, at the outset of every
                    capital case, courts should appoint two counsel, at least one of whom is
                    experienced in and knowledgeable about the defense of death penalty
                    cases. Ordinarily, "learned counsel" should have distinguished prior
                    experience in the trial, appeal, or post-conviction review of federal death
                    penalty cases, or distinguished prior experience in state death penalty
                    trials, appeals, or post-conviction review that, in combination with co-
                    counsel, will assure high-quality representation.

                c.    Special Considerations in the Appointment of Counsel on Appeal.
                      Ordinarily, the attorneys appointed to represent a death-sentenced federal
                      appellant should include at least one attorney who did not represent the
                      appellant at trial. In appointing appellate counsel, courts should, among
                      other relevant factors, consider:

                      i.      the attorney's experience in federal criminal appeals and capital
                              appeals;

                      ii.     the general qualifications identified in paragraph 1(a), above; and

                      iii.    the attorney's willingness, unless relieved, to serve as counsel in any
                              post-conviction proceedings that may follow the appeal.

                d. Special Considerations in the Appointment of Counsel in Post-Convictioni
                   Proceedings. In appointing post-conviction counsel in a case where the
                   defendant is sentenced to death, courts should consider the attorney's
                   experience in federal post-conviction proceedings and in capital post-

                                                          68
                                                                      September 15, 1998


       conviction proceedings, as well as the general qualifications set forth in
       paragraph 1(a).

   e. Hoburly Rate of Compensation for Counsel. The rate of compensation for
      counsel in a capital case should be maintained at a level sufficient to
      assure the appointment of attorneys who are appropriately qualified to
      undertake such representation.

2. Consultation with Federal Defender Organizations or the Administrative
   Office

   a. Notification of Statutory Obligation to Consult. The Administrative
      Office of the U.S. Courts (Administrative Office) and federal defender
      organizations should take appropriate action to ensure that their
      availability to provide statutorily mandated consultation regarding the
      appointment of counsel in every federal death penalty case is well known
      to the courts. (See 18 U.S.C. § 3005.)

   b. Consultation by Courts in Selecting Counsel. In each case involving an
      offense punishable by death, courts should, as required by 18 U.S.C.
      § 3005, consider the recommendation of the district's Federal Public
      Defender (FPD) (unless the defender organization has a conflict) about the
      lawyers to be appointed. In districts not served by a Federal Public
      Defender Organization, 18 U.S.C. § 3005 requires consultation with the
      Administrative Office. Although not required to do so by statute, courts
      served by a Community Defender Organization should seek the advice of
      that office.

   c. Consultation by Federal Defender ranizations (FD~s) and the
      Administrative Office in Recommending Counsel. In discharging their
      responsibility to recommend defense counsel, FDOs and the
      Administrative Office should consult with Federal Death Penalty Resource
      Counsel in order to identify attorneys who are well qualified, by virtue of
      their prior defense experience, training and commitment, to serve as lead
      and second counsel.

3. Appointment of More Than Two Lawyers

   Number of Counsel. Courts should not appoint more than two lawyers to
   provide representation to a defendant in a federal death penalty case unless
                                         69
Judicial Conference of the United States


                exceptional circumstances and good cause are shown. Appointed counsel
                may, however, with prior court authorization, use the services of attorneys
                who work in association with them, provided that the employment of such
                additional counsel (at a reduced hourly rate) diminishes the total cost of
                representation or is required to meet time limits.

           4. Appointment of the Federal Defender Organization

                a. EDO as Lead Counsel. Courts should consider appointing the district's
                   EDO as lead counsel in a federal death penalty case only if the following
                   conditions are present:

                      i.      the FDO has one or more lawyers with experience in the trial and/or
                              appeal of capital cases who are qualified to serve as "learned
                              counsel"; and

                      ii.     the EDO has sufficient resources so that workload can be adjusted
                              without unduly disrupting the operation of the office, and the
                              lawyer(s) assigned to the death penalty case can devote adequate
                              time to its defense, recognizing that the case may require all of their
                              available time; and

                      iii.   the EDO has or is likely to obtain sufficient funds to provide for the
                             expert, investigative and other services reasonably believed to be
                             necessary for the defense of the death penalty case.

                b. FDO as Second Counsel. Courts should consider appointing the district's
                   FDO as second counsel in a federal death penalty case only if the
                   following conditions are present:

                     i.      the FDO has sufficient resources so that workload can be adjusted
                             without unduly disrupting the operation of the office, and the
                             lawyer(s) assigned to the death penalty case can devote adequate
                             time to its defense, recognizing that the case may require all of their
                             available time; and

                     ii.     the FDO has or is likely to obtain sufficient finds to provide for the
                             expert, investigative and other services reasonably believed to be
                             necessary for the defense of the death penalty case.

                                                          70
                                                                    September 15, 1998


5. The Death Penalty Authorization Process

   a. Streamlining the Authorization Process. The Department of Justice (DOJ)
      should consider adopting a "fast track" review of cases involving death-
      eligible defendants where there is a high probability that the death penalty
      will not be sought.

   b. Court Monitorinu of the Authorization Process. Courts should exercise
      their supervisory powers to ensure that the death penalty authorization
      process proceeds expeditiously.

6. Federal Death Penalty Resource Counsel

   a. Information from Resource Counsel. In all federal death penalty cases,
      defense counsel should obtain the services of Federal Death Penalty
      Resource Counsel in order to obtain the benefit of model pleadings and
      other information that will save time, conserve resources and enhance
      representation. The judiciary should allocate resources sufficient to permit
      the full value of these services to be provided in every case.

   b. Technology and Information Sharing. The Administrative Office should
      explore the use of computer-based technology to facilitate the efficient and
      cost-effective sharing of information between Resource Counsel and
      defense counsel in federal death penalty cases.

7. Experts

   a. Salaried Positions for Penalty Phase Investigators. The federal defender
      program should consider establishing salaried positions within FDOs for
      persons trained to gather and analyze information relevant to the penalty
      phase of a capital case. FDOs should explore the possibility that, in
      addition to providing services in death penalty cases to which their FDO is
      appointed, it might be feasible for these investigators to render assistance
      to panel attorneys and to other FDOs.

   b. Negotiating Reduced Rates. Counsel should seek to contain costs by
      negotiating reduced hourly rates and/or total fees with experts and other
      service providers.



                                       7]
Judicial Conference of the Unitted States


                 c. Directory of Experts. A directory of experts willing to provide the
                    assistance most frequently needed in federal death penalty cases, and their
                    hourly rates of billing, should be developed and made available to counsel.

           8. Training

                 Federal Death Penalty Training Programs. The Administrative Office should
                 continue to offer and expand training programs designed specifically for
                 defense counsel in federal death penalty cases.

           9. Case Budgeting

                 a. Consultation with Prosecution. Upon learning that a defendant is charged
                    with an offense punishable by death, courts should promptly consult with
                    the prosecution to determine the likelihood that the death penalty will be
                    sought in the case and to find out when that decision will be made.

                b. Prior to Death Penalty Authorization. Ordinarily, the court should require
                   defense counsel to submit a litigation budget encompassing all services
                   (counsel, expert, investigative and other) likely to be required through the
                   time that DOJ determines whether or not to authorize seeking the death
                   penalty.

                c. After Death Penalty Authorization. As soon as practicable after the death
                   penalty has been authorized by DOJ, defense counsel should be required to
                   submit a further budget for services likely to be needed through the trial of
                   the guilt and penalty phases of the case. In its discretion, the court may
                   determine that defense counsel should prepare budgets for shorter intervals
                   of time.

                d. Advice from Administrative Office and Resource Counsel. In preparing
                   and reviewing case budgets, defense counsel and the courts should seek
                   advice from the Administrative Office and Federal Death Penalty
                   Resource Counsel, as may be appropriate.

                e.   Confidentiality of Case Budgets. Case budgets should be submitted ex
                     parte and should be filed and maintained under seal.




                                                    72
                                                                   September 15, 1998


   f. Modification of Approved Budget. An approved budget should guide
      counsel's use of time and resources by indicating the services for which
      compensation is authorized. Case budgets should be re-evaluated when
      justified by changed or unexpected circumstances, and should be modified
      by the court where good cause is shown.

   g. Payment of Interim Vouchers. Courts should require counsel to submit
      vouchers on a monthly basis, and should promptly review, certify' and
      process those vouchers for payment.

   h. Budgets In Excess of $250,000. If the total amount proposed by defense
      counsel to be budgeted for a case exceeds $250,000, the court should,
      prior to approval, submit such budget for review and recommendation to
      the Administrative Office.

   i. Death Penalty Not Authorized. As soon as practicable after DOJ declines
      to authorize the death penalty, the court should review the number of
      appointed counsel and the hourly rate of compensation needed for the
      duration of the proceeding pursuant to subparagraph 6.02.B(2) of the
      Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act and Related
      Statutes, Volume VII, Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and Procedures.

  j. Judicial Conference Guidelines. The Judicial Conference should
      promulgate guidelines on case budgeting for use by the courts and counsel.

   k. Judicial Training for Death Penaltv Cases. The Federal Judicial Center
      should work in cooperation with the Administrative Office to provide
      training for judges in the management of federal death penalty cases and,
      in particular, in the review of case budgets.

10. Case Management

   a. Non-Lawyyer Staff. Where it will be cost-effective, courts should consider
      authorizing payment for services to assist counsel in organizing and
      analyzing documents and other case materials.




                                       73
Judicial Conference of the United States


                b. Multi-defendant Cases

                      i.      Early Decision Regarding Severance. Courts should consider
                              making an early decision on severance of non-capital from capital
                              co-defendants.

                      ii.     Regularly Scheduled Status Hearings. Status hearings should be held
                              frequently, and a schedule for such hearings should be agreed upon
                              in advance by all parties and the court.

                      iii.    "Coordinating Counsel." In a multi-defendant case (in particular a
                              multi-defendant case in which more than one individual is eligible
                              for the death penalty), and with the consent of co-counsel, courts
                              should consider designating counsel for one defendant as
                              "coordinating counsel."

                      iv.     Shared Resources. Counsel for co-defendants should be encouraged
                              to share resources to the extent that doing so does not impinge on
                              confidentiality protections or pose an unnecessary risk of creating a
                              conflict of interest.

                     v.       Voucher Review. In large multi-defendant cases, after approving a
                              case budget, the court should consider assigning a magistrate judge
                              to review individual vouchers. The court should meet with defense
                              counsel at regular intervals to review spending in light of the case
                              budget and to identify and discuss future needs.

           11. Availability of Cost Data

                     The Administrative Office should improve its ability to collect and analyze
                     information about case budgets and the cost of capital cases.


COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION

          MEDICAL RECORDS PRIVACY LEGISLATION

                 The Cormmittee on Federal-State Jurisdiction considered several proposals
          pending in the 10 5 'hCongress concerning the privacy of medical records. In
                                                         74
                                                                         September 15, 1998


general, these proposals are intended to ensure the confidentiality of certain
medical records by creating uniform standards for the disclosure of "protected"
health information, that is, information that either identifies, or could be used to
identify, the individual who is the subject of the information. In addition, the bills
would provide individuals with the right to obtain access to their records, amend
their records, and receive notice of their rights; establish a system for disclosure of
medical information; and create criminal and administrative penalties for violation
of certain rights. The proposals would also create a civil cause of action in cases
where an individual's rights have been "knowingly or negligently" violated;
however, it is not specified whether jurisdiction over such actions lies in state or
federal court. Some proposals also permit the court to award punitive damages in
certain circumstances. Referencing recommendations in the Long Range Planfor
the Federal Courts that encourage recognition of the federal courts as courts of
limited jurisdiction and resources, the Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction
recommended, and the Judicial Conference agreed, that the Conference endorse
the following principles pertaining to medical records privacy legislation pending
in the 1 0 5t" Congress:

       Principle 1--Court Jurisdiction
       The private cause of action for wrongful disclosure of protected
       health information created by the medical records privacy
       legislation concerns a substantive area that traditionally has been
       governed by state law. Consistent with general principles of
       federalism, both the original and removal jurisdiction of federal
       courts to adjudicate such private causes of action should be limited
       to cases where the matter in controversy exceeds the sum or value
       of $75,000, exclusive of interest and costs, or some other
       substantial sum as determined by Congress.

       Principle 2-Standard for the Award of Punitive Damages
       If Congress determines to provide punitive damages as part of the
       remedies for a violation of the Medical Records Privacy Act,
       Congress should provide a statutory standard for the award of such
       damages to avoid wasteful litigation over the standard governing
       such damages.

       Principle 3-Access to Medical Records for Use in Pending
       Litiigation
       To the extent that litigation arises outside of the context of the
       Medical Records Privacy Act (e.g., personal injury cases), but

                                          75
Judicial Conference of the United States



                      nevertheless gives rise to issues concerning access to information
                      protected by such Act, the parties should resolve such issues
                      exclusively before the court handling the underlying litigation and
                      not by instituting duplicative litigation.


           MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION TRANSFER PROVISION

                   Section 1407(a) of title 28, United States Code, authorizes the Judicial
          Panel on Multidistrict Litigation to transfer civil actions with common questions
          of fact "to any district for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings." It
          also requires the Judicial Panel to remand any such action to the district court in
          which the action was filed at or before the conclusion of such pretrial proceedings.
          Until recently, however, federal courts have approved the practice of a transferee
          court invoking the venue transfer provision (28 U.S.C.§ 1404(a)) and transferring
          the case to itself for trial purposes. In Lexecon, Inc. v. Milberg Weiss Bershad
          Hynes & Lerach, 118 S.Ct. 956 (1998), the Supreme Court acknowledged the
          possible wisdom of permitting such self-transfers, but held that they were
          currently prohibited by 28 U.S.C. § 1407(a). The Committee on Federal-State
          Jurisdiction, after soliciting the views of the Judicial Panel and the Committee on
          Court Administration and Case Management, recommended that the Judicial
          Conference support legislation to amend the multidistrict litigation transfer
          provision, 28 U.S.C. § 1407, to provide that a district court conducting pretrial
          proceedings pursuant to that section could assign a transferred case for trial
          proceedings to itself or another district court in the interest of justice and for the
          convenience of parties and witnesses. The Judicial Conference approved the
          Committee's recommendation.


          JUDICIAL IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1998

                  The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction was asked to review, and
          make recommendations regarding, the "Judicial Improvement Act of 1998"
          (S. 2163, 10 5 "hCongress) in anticipation of congressional hearings. Many of the
          provisions contained in S. 2163 are similar to those included in the "Judicial
          Reform Act of 1998" (H.R. 1252, 10 5Ih Congress), upon which the Conference
          has previously commented (JCUS-SEP 97, pp. 64-65, 71, 8 1-82, and 85). On



                                                      76
                                                                      September 15, 1998


recommendation of the Committee, the Conference took the following positions
on other provisions in S. 2163 that have potential implications for the federal
judiciary:

a.     Opposed section 2, which would require expanded use of three-judge
       courts for challenges to state laws adopted by referenda and to Acts of
       Congress.

b.     Opposed in section 3(a), which concerns the termination of prospective
       relief in any civil action, the time limit established therein that would
       require the court to act within 60 days, which may impede the effective
       administration of justice.

c.     Opposed section 3(b), concerning special masters, because it could be
       interpreted broadly and thus bar the use of special masters in federal courts
       with respect to all proceedings, except for the remedial phase.

d.     Took no position on section 3(c), which would prohibit federal judges
       from ordering tax increases.

e.     Took no position on section 12, which would limit federal habeas review
       of Mirandaclaims and claims based upon a voluntarily given confession.

f.     Took no position on section 13, which would prohibit federal judges from
       specifically barring retrial of a successful habeas petitioner.

g.     Took no position on section 15 relating to termination of prospective relief
       in prison condition cases.

h.     Took no position on section 16 relating to limitations on attorney's fees in
       prison condition cases.

i.     Took no position on section 17, which would authorize the federal court to
       make findings that a prisoner's claims were filed for a malicious purpose
       or to harass the defendants and require the court to forward such findings
       to the state's department of corrections.

j.     Expressed concerns with section 18, which would deny jurisdiction to the
       federal courts to enter prisoner release orders, because the withdrawal of
       this jurisdiction (i) would sweep too broadly by reaching orders that do not

                                        77
Judicial Conference of the United States



                      in themselves direct state officials to release any prisoners; (ii) might
                      prove counterproductive, by foreclosing relatively deferential forms of
                      federal remedies and forcing judges to fashion alternative remedies that
                      might more deeply affect the administration of prisons; and (iii) would
                      operate as a bar to federal relief in even the most intractable cases,
                      including those addressed by the Prison Litigation Reform Act enacted in
                      1996, which conditions relief upon specific findings that no alternative
                      remedy will ameliorate the conditions at the prison.



COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

           COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                    The Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. app. 4 § 105), as
           amended, requires the release of financial disclosure reports to any member of the
           public who properly completes the request form. The Committee on Financial
           Disclosure reviewed its current procedures for implementation of this section and
           found that public access could be facilitated by wider publication of the procedure
           and the form (AO Form IOA) for obtaining access to a financial disclosure report.
           The Committee agreed that copies of the form and accompanying instructions for
           obtaining a report should be placed on the judiciary's website and made available
           in local courthouses.

                    Upon review of its administrative procedures for release of reports, the
           Committee recognized that certain administrative procedures could be changed to
           facilitate the overall request process without compromising security. The
           Committee determined to delete the requirement that requests for reports must
           contain a notarized signature, and it reduced the cost for reproduction of copies of
           a report from 50 cents to 20 cents per page.

                   The Committee reported that as of July 10, 1998, it had received 3,032
           financial disclosure reports and certifications for the calendar year 1997, including
           1,166 reports and certifications from Supreme Court Justices, Article III judges,
           and judicial officers of special courts; 324 from bankruptcy judges; 481 from
           magistrate judges; and 1,061 from judicial employees.




                                                      78
                                                                          September 15, 1998


COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the
    period from January 1, 1998 to June 30, 1998, a total of 122 intercircuit
    assignments, undertaken by 76 Article III judges, plus one retired Associate
    Justice, were processed and recommended by the Committee and approved by the
    Chief Justice. In addition, the Committee aided courts requesting assistance in
    identifying judges willing to take assignments.



COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL
JUDICIAL RELATIONS

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported that it had
    approved a strategic plan for the Committee compatible with its jurisdictional
    statement, and agreed that all future committee activities would be subject to the
    plan. In addition, the Committee endorsed six new international rule of law
    programs to be funded by grants from the United States Agency for International
    Development and sought Executive Committee approval for them (see supra,
    "Miscellaneous Actions," pp. 4 1-43). The Committee also reviewed its role and
    participation in rule of law programs in the Americas, Russia, and China, and was
    briefed on a number of ongoing international judicial reform initiatives.



COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported on the prospects for a
     1999 judges' Employment Cost Index salary adjustment and discussed ways to
     improve the current statutory process for reviewing and setting the salaries of
    judges, senior executive branch officials, and Members of Congress. The



                                            79
Judicial Conference of the Unted States



          Committee received updates on a number of judicial benefits issues, including a
          flexible benefits plan, an employee-pay-all long-term care insurance program, and
          pending legislation to improve life insurance and health benefits.


COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES

           SECRETARIES TO CHIEF CIRCUIT JUDGES

                   In September 1987, the Judicial Conference approved a change to the
           Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) qualification standards for principal secretaries to
           chief circuit judges to permit temporary promotion to JSP- 12 after serving three
           years as a secretary to a circuit judge and upon a showing of exceptional circuit-
           wide duties and responsibilities (JCUS-SEP 87, pp. 64-65). When the chief judge
           stepped down, however, the secretary would revert back to the grade that would
           have been attained had the temporary promotion not occurred. The Conference,
           on recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, approved a change
           to the JSP qualification standards to allow a secretary to a chief circuit judge to be
           promoted from JSP-1 I to JSP- 12 after one year as a secretary to a circuit judge.
           To protect the secretaries from significant salary reductions once the chief circuit
          judge steps down, on the Committee's recommendation, the Conference also
           provided that the promotion to JSP-1 2 of the chief circuit judge's secretary be
           considered temporary for only two years, and that after the two-year period, the
          promotion to JSP- 12 be made permanent.



          SETTLEMENT CONFERENCE ATTORNEY OFFICES

                  At its September 1994 session, the Judicial Conference approved a five-
          year cap on the growth of the settlement conference attorney program and
          provided that requests for new positions within the approved cap may be
          authorized by the Administrative Office while requests for positions in excess of
          the cap must be referred to the Committee on Judicial Resources and the
          Conference for approval (JCUS-SEP 94, pp. 56-57). On recommendation of the
          Committee, the Conference approved one attorney and one support staff position
          for the Eleventh Circuit settlement conference attorney's office to establish a
          branch office in Miami, Florida, beginning in fiscal year 2000. The Conference
          directed that funding be provided by the Administrative Office at the appropriate

                                                    80
                                                                      Septemnber 1, 1998

Cost Control Monitoring System national average salary level. See supra, "Cost
Control Monitoring System," pp. 58-59.


BANKRUPTCY APPELLATE PANEL STAFFING

        The staff attorney position for the Second Circuit Bankruptcy Appellate
Panel (BAP) was originally authorized in 1996 and was later extended through the
end of fiscal year 1998. In response to a request from the Second Circuit BAP,
and on the Committee's recommendation, the Judicial Conference approved a
one-year extension of the bankruptcy appellate panel staff attorney for the Second
Circuit until September 30, 1999.


BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATORS

       After consulting with the Committee on the Administration of the
Bankruptcy System, the Judicial Resources Committee recommended that the
Conference approve requests for seven new positions for fiscal year 2000 for the
bankruptcy administrators: one in the Eastern District of North Carolina, one in
the Western District of North Carolina, four in the Northern District of Alabama,
and one in the Southern District of Alabama. The Conference approved the
Committee's recommendation.


CIRCUIT EXECUTIVE FOR THE FEDERAL CIRCUIT

         The Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit requested that the Conference seek an amendment to 28 U.S.C. §§ 332(e)
and (f) to include a provision for the establishment of a circuit executive for the
Federal Circuit. Although the Federal Circuit does not have a circuit judicial
council, many of the responsibilities currently performed by the clerk of court in
the Federal Circuit are the same as those functions prescribed by § 332(e), which
identifies duties that may be delegated to a circuit executive. On recommendation
of the Judicial Resources Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek an
amendment to 28 U.S.C. § 332 to establish a combined circuit executive/clerk of
court position for the Federal Circuit.




                                        8]
Judicial Conference of the United States



COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

           SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT REGULATIONS

                  Currently, sections 2.01 and 6.03(a) of the Regulations of the Judicial
          Conference of the United States Establishing Standards and Procedures for the
          Appointment and Reappointment of United States Magistrate Judges require that,
          prior to the selection of a magistrate judge, notice of the impending appointment
          be published in a general local newspaper or similar publication and, if
          practicable, in a bar journal, newsletter, or local legal periodical. Some courts,
          particularly in metropolitan areas, have been concerned about the high costs of
          publication in their local newspapers. Concluding that the courts themselves are
          in the best position to determine how to provide effective notice, the Committee
          recommended, and the Conference approved, amendments to sections 2.01 and
          6.03(a) of the regulations to require that before a district court selects a magistrate
          judge, whether a new appointment or a reappointment, it must publish a public
          notice in a general local newspaper, in a widely-circulated local legal periodical,
          or in both.



           CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                  After consideration of the report of the Committee on the Administration
          of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of the Director of the
          AdministrativeOffice, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits,
          the Judicial Conference approved the following changes in salaries and
          arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes
          with a budgetary impact are to be effective when appropriated funds are available.

           FIRST CIRCUIT

          District of New Hampshire

                     Made no change in the number of positions or the location of the existing
                     magistrate judge position in the district.



                                                     82
                                                                     September 15, 1998

SECOND CIRCUIT

District of Vermont

       Made no change in the number of positions or the location of the existing
       magistrate judge position in the district.

FOURTH CIRCUIT

District of South Carolina

I1.    Increased the salary of the pant-time magistrate judge position at Aiken
       from Level 8 ($3,167 per annum) to Level 6 ($10,557 per annum); and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

FIFTH CIRCUIT

Northern District of Mississippi

       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

Northern District of Texas

I1.    Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at San
       Angelo from Level 6 ($10,557 per annum) to Level 4 ($31,672 per
       annumn);

2.     Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Abilene
       from Level 4 ($31,672 per annum) to Level 5 ($21,115 per annumn); and

3.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.

Western District of Texas

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.
                                        83
Judicial Conference of the United States



           NINTH CIRCUIT

           District of Alaska

                      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Juneau
                      from Level 5 ($21,115 per annum) to Level 1 ($58,065 per annum) for a
                      two-month period commencing October 1, 1998, with a reduction back to
                      Level 5 thereafter.

           District of Hawaii

           1.         Convented the part-time magistrate judge position at Honolulu to full-time
                      status; and

           2.         Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                      other magistrate judge positions in the district.

           District of Oregon

                      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Pendleton
                      from Level 7 ($5,279 per annum) to Level 6 ($10,557 per annum).

           TENTH CIRCUIT

           District of New Mexico

           1.         Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Gallup
                      from Level 8 ($3,167 per annum) to Level 7 ($5,279 per annum); and

           2.        Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
                     other magistrate judge positions in the district.

           Eastern District of Oklahoma

           I1.       Increased the salary of the pant-time magistrate judge position at
                     McAlester from Level 4 ($31,672 per annum) to Level 2 ($52,787 per
                     annumn); and



                                                       84
                                                                        September 15, 1998

2.      Made no change in the number, location, or arrangements of the other
        magistrate judge position in the district.

District of Utah

I.      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at St.
        George from Level 6 ($10,557 per annum) to Level 4 ($31,672 per
        annum); and

2.      Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
        other magistrate judge positions in the district.

ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Southern District of Florida

I.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Miami;

2.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at West Palm
       Beach; and

3.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.

Middle District of Georgia

I.     Convented the part-time magistrate judge position at Columbus to full-
       time status; and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
       magistrate judge positions in the district.



ACCELERATED FUNDING

         The accelerated funding program was originally established in fiscal year
1991 to provide prompt magistrate judge assistance to judicial districts seriously
affected by drug filings (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 94). It was subsequently expanded to
include courts affected by the CJRA (JCUS-SEP 92, p. 79). Following the

                                         85
Judicial Conference of the Uited States



          expiration of most of the provisions of the CJRA on December 1, 1997, the
          Committee reviewed the accelerated funding program and determined that instead
          of establishing specific criteria for the designation of a position for accelerated
          funding, it was appropriate to consider all relevant factors in its determination. On
          recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed that in lieu of
          the criteria for accelerated funding previously applied by the Conference,
          accelerated funding for magistrate judge positions would be provided to all courts
          with an immediate need for prompt magistrate judge assistance, as recommended
          by the Committee.

                  On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to
          designate the new magistrate judge positions at Honolulu, Hawaii; Miami,
          Florida; West Palm Beach, Florida; and Columbus, Georgia, for accelerated
          funding in fiscal year 1999.



COMMITTEE To REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL CONDUCT AND
DISABILITY ORDERS

          COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                  In May 1997, the Judicial Conference determined to oppose legislation
          introduced in the 10 5 "hCongress to amend the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act
          of 1980 (28 U.S.C. § 372(c)) regarding the transfer to another circuit of
          complaints of judicial misconduct (JCUS-SEP 97, pp. 8 1-82). The Committee to
          Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders reported that there had
          been no action on this proposal in the Senate, and that the Committee would
          continue to monitor any legislative developments in this area. The Committee
          further reported that it determined to add commentary to the Illustrative Rules
          Governing Complaints of Judicial Misconduct and Disability to provide guidance
          in dealing with the problem of mass filings of identical section 372(c) complaints
          by different individuals against the same judge or judges.




                                                   86
                                                                       September 15, 1998


COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

    FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

            The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
    Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1017 (Dismissal
    or Conversion of Case; Suspension), 10019 (Conversion of Chapter I11
    Reorganization Case, Chapter 12 Family Farmer's Debt Adjustment Case, or
    Chapter 13 Individual's Debt Adjustment Case to Chapter 7 Liquidation Case),
    2002 (Notices to Creditors, Equity Security Holders, United States, and United
    States Trustee), 2003 (Meeting of Creditors or Equity Security Holders), 3020
    (Deposit; Confirmation of Plan in a Chapter 9 Municipality or a Chapter I11
    Reorganization Case), 3021 (Distribution under Plan), 4001 (Relief from
    Automatic Stay; Prohibiting or Conditioning the Use, Sale, or Lease of Property;
    Use of Cash Collateral; Obtaining Credit; Agreements), 4004 (Grant or Denial of
    Discharge), 4007 (Determination of Dischargeability of a Debt), 6004 (Use, Sale,
    or Lease of Property), 6006 (Assumption, Rejection and Assignment of Executory
    Contracts and Unexpired Leases), 7001 (Scope of Rules of Part VII), 7004
    (Process; Service of Summons, Complaint), 7062 (Stay of Proceedings to Enforce
    a Judgment), 9006 (Time), and 9014 (Contested Matters). The proposed
    amendments were accompanied by Committee Notes explaining their purpose and
    intent. The Judicial Conference approved the amendments and authorized their
    transmittal to the Supreme Court for its consideration with the recommendation
    that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with
    the law.


    FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

            The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
    Judicial Conference proposed technical amendments to Civil Rule 6(b) (Time)
    and Forn 2 (Allegation of Jurisdiction). The proposed amendments were
    accompanied by Committee Notes explaining their purpose and intent. The
    Judicial Conference approved the amendments and authorized their transmittal to
    the Supreme Court for its consideration with the recommendation that they be
    adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.




                                           87
Judicial Conference of the United States




           FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

                   The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted proposed
          amendments to Criminal Rules 6 (The Grand Jury), II (Pleas), 24 (Trial Jurors),
          and 54 (Application and Exception) to the Judicial Conference, along with
          Committee Notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference
          approved the amendments and authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court
          for its consideration with the recommendation that they be adopted by the Court
          and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


COMMITTEE ON SECURITY AND FACILITIES


          CHILD CARE CENTERS IN COURTHOUSES

                  Following the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in
          Oklahoma City, the Committee considered whether it is advisable for federally-
          sponsored child day care centers to be located in federal courthouses. After
          reviewing the positions of the Committee on Judicial Resources, the Department
          of Justice, the United States Marshals Service, and an executive branch
          interagency working group on security issues in federal facilities, the Committee
          recommended amendments to the judiciary's existing policy on housing day care
          centers. The Conference slightly modified, and then approved, the Committee's
          recommendation that it-

          a.         Reaffirm support for participation by the judiciary in the Federal Day Care
                     Center Program;

          b.         Amend its existing policy on participation by the courts in the Federal Day
                     Care Center Program to preclude location of such centers in new or
                     renovated buildings housing courts and seek relocation of centers in
                     existing buildings housing court operations within three years. If a center
                     has not been relocated within three years, an examination of the
                     circumstances contributing to the inability to relocate the center(s) should
                     be pursued;



                                                      88
                                                                          September 15, 1998


    C.     Encourage courts to pursue establishment of child day care centers outside
           of buildings housing courts; and

    d.     Amend the United States Courts Design Guide to include language
           precluding location of a child day care center when constructing or
           renovating a courthouse.



    FUNDING FOR COURTHOUSE CONSTRUCTION

            In late 1997, the Office of Management and Budget submitted to Congress
    an executive branch budget request for fiscal year 1999 that did not include any
    funds in the General Services Administration (GSA) budget for courthouse
    construction. In light of the serious implications of delaying the courthouse
    construction program further (no funds were included in GSA's budget for fiscal
    year 1998), the Committee on Security and Facilities proposed that funds for
    courthouse construction be requested as part of the judiciary's, rather than GSA's,
    budget beginning in fiscal year 2000. This action would be consistent with prior
    Conference support for the judiciary's independence from the executive branch in
    the area of real property administration. See JCUS-SEP 89, p. 81; Long Range
    Planfor the FederalCourts, December 1995, p. 86 (Implementation Strategy
    5 1a). On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to
    seek funding for courthouse construction, including funding for planning new
    projects, in the judiciary's budget request beginning in fiscal year 2000, unless a
    further assessment of congressional reaction to such a proposal counsels against
    such action as determined jointly by the chairmen of the Security and Facilities
    Committee and Budget Committee, and the Director of the Administrative Office.



FUNDING

            All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
    funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to the
    availability of funds, and subject to whatever priorities the Conference might
    establish for the use of available resources.




                                              99
Judicial Conference of the United States



RELEASE OF CONFERENCE ACTION

                   Except as otherwise specified, the Conference authorized the immediate
           release of matters considered by this session where necessary for legislative or
           administrative action.




                                                           CiJustice of the   nit d States
                                                        Presiding




                                                   90
                                                                   September 1S, 1998

INDEX

Administrative Office, Committee on the, 43-44

Administrative Office of the U. S. Courts
     bankruptcy data, 40, 56
     benefits project positions, 43
     courthouse construction funding, 89
     designation of certifying officers, 59
     electronic courtroom implementation, 44
     federal death penalty representation, 69, 71, 72, 73, 74
     realtime court reporting, disabled bankruptcy judges, 42-43
     relocation allowance, 43
     settlement conference attorney staffing, 80
     work measurement project positions, 43

Alternative dispute resolution
       Alternative Dispute Resolution Act, 42
       in bankruptcy, 53

Anderson, Stephen H., 39

Appropriations
      budget request, FY 2000, 58
      Court Security account, 41
      courthouse construction funding, 89
      defender organization funding, 67
      Defender Services account, 41, 67
      Fees of Jurors and Commissioners account, 41
      financial plans, FY 1999, 41
     judiciary appropriations bill, FY 1999, 41
      Salaries and Expenses account, 41, 67
      Salaries and Expenses financial plan, FY 1998, 42
     tribal courts, 59

Automation and Technology, Committee on, 44

Bankruptcy administrators, 54-55, 81


                                         91
Judicial Conference of the United States


Bankruptcy appellate panels
      staffing, 81
      use in appellate process, 46-47

Bankruptcy judges (see judges, bankruptcy)

Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994, 46

Bankruptcy rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Bankruptcy Rules, Advisory Committee on, 53

Bankruptcy system (see also judges, bankruptcy)
      appellate review, 46-47
      bankruptcy administrator staffing, 81
      bankruptcy appellate panel staffing, 81
      consolidation of clerks' furnctions with other offices, 65-66
      data collection and dissemination, 40, 56
      intercircuit assignment of bankruptcy judges, 45
     judgeships, 44-45
      National Bankruptcy Review Commission, 46-58
      place of holding bankruptcy court, 46

Bankruptcy System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 40-41, 44-58, 81

Budget (see appropriations)

Budget, Committee on the, 58-59, 89

Chief judges
       certifying officer legislation, 59
       circuit, circuit council composition, 63
       circuit, designation of bankruptcy judge in Chapter 9 cases, 58
       circuit, secretaries, 80
       district, juror qualification determination, 62

Chief Justice of the United States, 40

                                            92
                                                                     September IS, 1998



Child care centers in courthouses, 88-89

Circuit executives
       community affairs pilot program, 43
       Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, 81

Circuit judges (see judges, circuit)

Circuit judicial councils
       composition, 63
Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990, 63, 85-86

Civil rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Civil Service Retirement System, 42

Clerks of court
       bankruptcy, electronic data, 40-41
       bankruptcy, notice to governmental units, 56
       bankruptcy, workload, 48, 51
       combined circuit executive/clerk of court position, 81
       consolidation of functions, bankruptcy with district, 65-66
       district, juror qualification determination, 62
      judges' recusal lists, 60-61

Code of Conduct for Federal Public Defender Employees, 60

Codes of Conduct, Committee on, 60-61

Compensation
     judicial, 79-80
     panel attorney compensation in extraordinary case, 42
      secretaries to chief circuit judges, 80

Conduct and disability, judicial
     transfer of complaint, 86


                                            93
Judicial Conference of the United States


Conduct and Disability Orders, Committee to Review
Circuit Council, 86

Congress (see also legislation, pending)
       bankruptcy case data and statistics, 40-4 1
       circuit council composition, 63
       consolidation, bankruptcy and district court clerks' offices, 65-66
       courthouse construction funding, 89
       FBI report on DNA, 66
       federal death penalty cases report, 67
      judgeships, bankruptcy, 44-45
      jury administration practices, 61-62
      medical records privacy, 74-76
      National Bankruptcy Review Commission report, 46-58
      rules of practice and procedure, 87-88
      salaries of Members, 79

Cost Control Monitoring System, 58-59, 81

Court administration
       alternative dispute resolution, 42, 53
       consolidation, bankruptcy and district court clerks' offices, 65-66
       electronic public access fee, 64-65
      jury administration, 6 1-62
      multidistrict litigation transfer, 76
      place of holding bankruptcy court, 46

Court Administration and Case Management, Committee on, 42, 46, 47, 61-66, 76

Court of Federal Claims
      miscellaneous fees, 64-65

Court reporting, realtime
      disabled bankruptcy judges, 42-43

Courthouses (see space and facilities)




                                            94
                                                                     September 15, 1998

Courts of appeals
      bankruptcy appeals, 46-47
      combined circuit executive/clerk of court position, 81
      electronic public access fee, 64-65

Cox, Emmett R., 39

Criminal Justice Act (CJA) (see also defender services)
      attorney compensation in extraordinary case, 42
        FederalDeath Penalty Cases: Recommendations Concerning the Cost
                and Quality of Defense Representation, 67-74
        Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act, 73
        panel attorney administration, 67

Criminal Law, Committee on, 66

Criminal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Data Communications Network (DCN), 44

Defender services (see also Criminal Justice Act)
      code of conduct, federal defender employees, 60
       FederalDeath Penalty Cases: Recommendations Concerning the Cost
               and Quality ofDefense Representation, 67-74
       federal death penalty representation, 67-74
       federal public defender organizations' funding requests, 67
       financial plan, FY 1999, 41
       panel attorney administration, 67

Defender Services, Committee on, 67-74

Department of Justice, 71, 72, 73, 88
      Executive Office for U. S. Trustees, 56
      Federal Bureau of Investigation, 69
      United States Marshals Service, 88

Design Guide (see United States Courts Design Guide)

Directory of Cooperative and Sharing Arrangements in Districts with Separate Pretrial
Services and Probation Offices, 66

                                           95
Judicial Conference of the United States


District courts (see also bankruptcy system; magistrate judges system; probation and
pretrial services)
         bankruptcy appeals, 46-47, 63
         certifying officers, 59
         Civil Justice Reform Act, 63, 85-86
         clerk's office consolidation with bankruptcy and probation offices, 65-66
         court ordered taxation, 77
         electronic public access fee, 64-65
        habeas corpus, 77
        jury administration, 61-62
        multidistrict litigation transfer provision, 76
        panel attorney administration, 67
        prisoner litigation, 77-78
        social security appeals, statistical reporting, 63
        special masters, 77
        termination of prospective relief, 77
        three-judge courts, 77

District judges (see judges, district)

Electronic Courtroom Project, 44

Employment Cost I ndex, 79

Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 78

Executive branch (see also Department of Justice; General Services
Administration, President of the United States), 59, 79, 88, 89

Executive Committee, 3 8-43, 79

Executive Office for U. S. Trustees (see Department of Justice)

Fair Credit Reporting Act, 51

Federal Bureau of Investigation (see Department of Justice)

Federal Day Care Center Program, 88-89

                                           96
                                                                       September 15, 1998

FederalDeath Penalty Cases; Recommendations Concerning the Cost and
Quality of Defense Representation, 67-74
       appointment of federal defender organization, 70
       appointment of more than two lawyers, 69-70
      attorney compensation, 69
      case budgeting, 72-73
      case management, 73-74
      consultation in selecting counsel, 69
      cost data availability, 74
      death penalty authorization process, 71
      experts, 71-72
      federa] death penalty resource counsel, 71
      qualifications for appointment of counsel, 68-69
      training, 72

Federal Employees Retirement System, 42

Federal Judicial Center, 40, 41-42, 66, 73

Federal public defender organizations (see defender services)

Federal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Federal-State Jurisdiction, Committee on, 74-78

Fees
       Court of Federal Claims, miscellaneous, 65
       electronic access to court information, 64-65
       Internet access to court information, 64-65
       Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, miscellaneous, 64
       miscellaneous schedules, 64-65

Financial Disclosure, Committee on, 61, 78

Financial disclosure reports, 78

General Services Administration, 89



                                           97
Judicial Conference of the United States


Guide to JudiciaryPolicies and Procedures, 73

Guidelines
       Criminal Justice Act, 73
       intercircuit assignment of bankruptcy judges, 45

Habeas corpus, 77

Illustrative Rules Governing Complaints of Judicial Misconduct and Disability, 86

Information technology, 44, 64-65

Intercircuit assignments
        Article 111 judges, 79
        guidelines for bankruptcy judges, 45

Intercircuit Assignments, Committee on, 79

International Judicial Relations, Committee on, 43, 79

Internet access to court information, 64-65

Judges, Article III (see also chiefjudges)
       benefits, 79-80
       circuit council composition, 63
       compensation, 79
       financial disclosure reports, 78
       intercircuit assignments, 79
       law clerk interviews, 38
       recusal obligations, 60-61
       sentencing commission chair, 40

Judges, bankruptcy
       financial disclosure reports, 78
       intercircuit assignment guidelines, 45
       realtime court reporting, 42-43



                                               98
                                                                     September 15, 1998

 Judges, circuit (see chiefjudges; judges, Article 111)

 Judges, district (see chief judges; judges, Article 111)

 Judges, magistrate
        accelerated funding, 85-86
        changes in positions, 42, 82-85
        financial disclosure reports, 78
       public notice of impending appointment, 82

Judgeships, bankruptcy, 44-45

Judicial branch
       child care centers in courthouses, 88-89
       courthouse constmuction funding, 89
       judicial compensation, 79

Judicial Branch, Committee on the, 79

Judicial Conduct and Disability Act of 1980, 86

Judicial Conference of the United States
       Federal Judicial Center Foundation funds administration, 4 1-42
       funding of actions, 89
       memorandum of understanding with Federal Judicial Center Board,
               and Federal Judicial Center Foundation Board, 41-42
       release of actions, 90
        The Judicial Conference and its Committees, 40

Judicial councils of the circuits (see circuit judicial councils)

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, 64, 76

Judicial Resources, Committee on, 42, 46, 47, 80-81, 88

Judiciary Salary Plan, 80




                                             99
Judicial Conference of the United States


Jury administration
      exemption for members of armed forces, 62
      juror qualification determination, 61-62
      Methods Analysis Program proposals, 61-62
      public notice of selection process, 62

Jury Selection and Service Act, 62

Law clerk interviews, 38

Legislation, pending (10i5 'hCongress)
       Alternative Dispute Resolution Act of 1998 (H.R. 3528), 42
       bankruptcy reform legislation, 40-4 1
       Judicial Conduct and Disability Act amendment, 86
       Judicial Improvement Act of 1998 (H.R. 2163), 76-78
       Judicial Reform Act of 1998 (H.R. 1252), 42
       medical records privacy legislation, 74-76

Legislative branch (see Congress)

Lexicon, Inc., v. Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach, 76

Long Range Plan for the Federal Courts, 63, 75, 89

Magill, Frank J., 39

Magistrate judges (see judges, magistrate)

Magistrate judges system (see also judges, magistrate)
      accelerated funding, 85-86
      changes in positions, 42, 82-85
      public notice of impending appointments, 82

Magistrate Judges System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 42, 82-85

Mass torts, 51


                                             100
                                                               September IS, 1998

Medical records privacy, 74-76

Memorandum of Understanding, Federal Judicial Center
Foundation funds administration, 41-42

Methods Analysis Program (MAP), 61-62,66

Miscellaneous fee schedules (see fees)

National Bankruptcy Review Commission, 46-58
       abusive serial filings, 57
       admission to practice, 55-56
       appellate review, 46-47
      Article III status, 55
       attorney referral programs, 56
      audits of debtors' schedules, 48
      chapter 9 cases, presiding judge, 58
      chapter 9 municipal cases, 57
      chapter I11 creditors' meeting, 53
      chapter I11 disclosure statements, 57
      chapter I1I examiners, 53-54
      chapter I11 small business cases, 54-55
      chapter 12 family farmer cases, 58
      consent of former partners, 52
      consumer bankruptcies, systems administration, 48
      credit rehabilitation programs, 51
      credit reporting agencies, 51
      creditors' committees, 53
      data compilation and dissemination, 56
      debtor's exemptions, 49
      declaratory relief, 57
      disehargeability of criminal restitution orders, 49-50
      dischargeability of family support obligations, 50
      disehargeability of student loans, 50
      education programs for debtors, 48
      electronic access to bankruptcy data, 56
      employee participation in bankruptcy cases, 53
      false claims by creditors, 48
      fee examiners, 56

                                           101
Judicial Conference of the United States


National Bankruptcy Review Commission (continued):
       in rem orders, 51
       interest rate for secured creditors, 51
       limited liability company, 52
       mass future claims, 51
       mediation programs, 53
       national filing system, 48
       notice to governmental units, 56
       objections to debtors' discharge, 50
       partnership cases, 52
       pre-bankruptcy default judgments, 50
       qualification of professionals, 55
       reaffirmation agreements, 49
       security interests in household goods, 49
       small business cases, 54-55
       taxation, 56-57
       trust fund taxes, 57
       United States trustee program, 55
       valuation of collateral, 50-5 1
       venue for corporate debtors, 55
       venue for preference actions, 55

Personnel, court
      bankruptcy appellate panel, staffing, 81
      certifying officers, 59
      Federal Circuit, circuit executive, 81
      financial disclosure reports, 78
      relocation allowance, 43
      retirement systems, 42
      secretaries to chief circuit judges, 80
      settlement conference attorneys, staffing, 58-59, 80-81

Pilot programs
        community affairs, 43
       panel attorney administration, 67

President of the United States, 40, 46


                                           102
                                                                          September 1S, 1998

Pretrial services system (see probation and pretrial services system)

Prison Litigation Reform Act, 78

Prisoner litigation, 77-78

Pro, Philip M., 39

Probation and pretrial services system
       consolidation of administrative and operational
                functions with clerks' offices, 65-66
       Directory of Cooperative and Sharing Arrangements in Districts
                with SeparatePretrialServices and Probation Offices, 66
       pretrial services, investigation and report writing, 66
       pretrial services, supervision case tools, 66

Randolph, A. Raymond, 39

Realtime court reporting
       for disabled bankruptcy judge, 42

Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States Establishing Standards
and Procedures for the Appointment and Reappointment of United States
Magistrate Judges, 82

Relocation allowances, 43

Report of the National Bankruptcy Review Commission, 46-58

Resolutions
       Anderson, Stephen H., 39
       Cox, Emmett R., 39
       Magill, Frank J., 39
       Pro, Philip M., 39
      Randolph, A. Raymond, 39
       Stotler, Alicemarie H., 39

Rule of law programs, 43, 79


                                           103
JudicialConference of the United States


Rules Enabling Act, 48, 52, 54, 56

Rules of practice and procedure
       bankruptcy rules, 48, 49, 53, 57, 87
       civil rules, 87
       criminal rules, 88

Rules of Practice and Procedure, Committee cin, 46, 47, 87-88

Salaries (see compensation)

Security
       child care centers in courthouses, 88-89
       release of financial disclosure reports, 78

Security and Facilities, Committee on, 88-89

Settlement conference attorney offices
       funding, 58-59, 80
       relocation allowance, 43
         staffing, 80

Social security appeals, 63

Space and facilities
      child care centers in courthouses, 88-89
       courthouse construction funding, 89
       United States Courts Design Guide, 89

Statistics
        bankruptcy, 40-41, 56
        social security appeals, 63

Stotler, Alicemarie HI., 39

Supporting personnel (see personnel, court)

Technology (see information technology)

                                              104
                                                             September 15, 1998

The Judicial Conference and its Committees, 40

Tribal courts, 59

United States Agency for International Development, 43, 79

United States Courts Design Guide, 89

United States Marshals Service (see Department of Justice)

United States Sentencing Commission, 40

United States trustees, 40-41, 54-55, 56




                                           105
