REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


September 15, 1999

            The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
     D.C., on September 15, 1999, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
     United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and the
     following members of the Conference were present:

            First Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Juan R. Torruella
                    Judge Joseph A. DiClerico, Jr.,
                           District of New Hampshire

            Second Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Ralph K. Winter, Jr.
                    Chief Judge Charles P. Sifton,
                           Eastern District of New York

            Third Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Edward R. Becker
                    Chief Judge Donald E. Ziegler,
                           Western District of Pennsylvania

            Fourth Circuit:

                    Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III
                    Chief Judge Charles H. Haden II,
                           Southern District of West Virginia

            Fifth Circuit:

                    Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King
                    Judge Hayden W. Head, Jr.,
                           Southern District of Texas
Judicial Conference of the United States


                 Sixth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Boyce F. Martin, Jr.
                          Judge Thomas A. Wiseman, Jr.,
                                 Middle District of Tennessee

                 Seventh Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Richard A. Posner
                          Judge Robert L. Miller, Jr.,
                                 Northern District of Indiana

                 Eighth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Roger L. Wollman
                          Judge James M. Rosenbaum,
                                 District of Minnesota

                 Ninth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Procter Hug, Jr.
                          Judge Lloyd D. George,
                                 District of Nevada

                 Tenth Circuit:

                          Chief Judge Stephanie K. Seymour
                          Judge Ralph G. Thompson,
                                 Western District of Oklahoma

                 Eleventh Circuit:

                          Chief Judge R. Lanier Anderson III
                          Judge Wm. Terrell Hodges,
                                 Middle District of Florida




                                                  40
                                                                 September 15, 1999


       District of Columbia Circuit:

              Judge Laurence H. Silberman1
              Chief Judge Norma H. Johnson,
                     District of Columbia

       Federal Circuit:

              Chief Judge Haldane Robert Mayer

       Court of International Trade:

              Chief Judge Gregory W. Carman

        Circuit Judges W. Eugene Davis, David R. Hansen, Dennis G. Jacobs,
Paul V. Niemeyer, Jane R. Roth, Anthony J. Scirica, and Walter K. Stapleton,
District Judges Robin J. Cauthron, John G. Heyburn II, D. Brock Hornby, Michael
J. Melloy, Edward W. Nottingham, and Harvey E. Schlesinger, and Judge Richard
W. Goldberg of the Court of International Trade attended the Conference session.
Gregory B. Walters, Circuit Executive for the Ninth Circuit, was also present.

       Senator Patrick Leahy spoke on matters pending in Congress of interest to
the Conference. Attorney General Janet Reno and Solicitor General Seth
Waxman addressed the Conference on matters of mutual interest to the judiciary
and the Department of Justice.

        Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence A.
Lee, Jr., Associate Director for Management and Operations; William R. Burchill,
Jr., Associate Director and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel, Assistant Director,
Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Michael W. Blommer, Assistant
Director, Legislative Affairs; Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant Director, Judicial
Conference Executive Secretariat; and David Sellers, Deputy Assistant Director,
Public Affairs. Judge Fern Smith and Russell Wheeler, Director and Deputy
Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also attended the session of the


1
 Designated by the Chief Justice to attend in lieu of Chief Judge Harry T.
Edwards.

                                       41
Judicial Conference of the United States


        Conference, as did James Duff, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice, and
        judicial fellows Amie Clifford, Richard Mendales and Mark Miller.


REPORTS
                Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
        courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office. Judge Smith spoke to
        the Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs.


EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
        RESOLUTIONS

               The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
        Committee to adopt the following resolution in recognition of the substantial
        contributions made by Judicial Conference committee chairs who complete their
        terms of service in 1999:

                         The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
                 with appreciation, respect and admiration the following judicial
                 officers:

                            HONORABLE DAVID R. THOMPSON
                      Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System

                                 HONORABLE GEORGE P. KAZEN
                                    Committee on Criminal Law

                                HONORABLE CYNTHIA H. HALL
                              Committee on International Judicial Relations

                              HONORABLE JULIA SMITH GIBBONS
                                 Committee on Judicial Resources




                                                   42
                                                                  September 15, 1999


                     HONORABLE FERN M. SMITH
                 Advisory Committee on the Rules of Evidence

                    HONORABLE NORMAN H. STAHL
                     Committee on Security and Facilities

               Appointed as committee chairs by Chief Justice William H.
       Rehnquist, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role in the
       administration of the federal court system. These judges served
       with distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference committees
       while, at the same time, continuing to perform their duties as
       judges in their own courts. They have set a standard of skilled
       leadership and earned our deep respect and sincere gratitude for
       their innumerable contributions. We acknowledge with
       appreciation their commitment and dedicated service to the
       Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.

                                  * * * * *

       The Executive Committee approved, on behalf of the Conference, the
following resolution recognizing Judge Wm. Terrell Hodges’ outstanding service
as Chair of the Executive Committee:

              The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
       with deep appreciation, respect and admiration, the Honorable

                          WM. TERRELL HODGES

       Chairman of the Executive Committee from October 1, 1996 to
       October 1, 1999, and member of this body for six years.

               Judge Hodges came to the Judicial Conference in 1993
       after election by his peers in the Eleventh Circuit and following
       several years of service on a variety of Conference Committees,
       including three years as Chair of the Advisory Committee on
       Criminal Rules. Recognized for his exceptional intellect, keen
       analytical ability, and statesman-like demeanor, Judge Hodges
       rapidly earned the respect of his colleagues and of Chief Justice
       Rehnquist who, in 1994, appointed him to the Conference’s

                                        43
Judicial Conference of the United States


                 Executive Committee. In 1996, the Chief Justice appointed Judge
                 Hodges to serve as Chairman of the Executive Committee -- only
                 the second district judge in the history of the Conference to have
                 this important honor.

                         Judge Hodges has been a superb Executive Committee
                 Chair and an outstanding leader, who never wavered from the
                 high-quality professionalism that is his standard. He set the tone
                 for each Committee meeting with his thorough preparation,
                 receptiveness to views of other members, and insightful comments.
                 Through his astute grasp of the issues, and quick analysis of
                 concerns expressed during Committee discussions, he was
                 consistently able to forge Executive Committee consensus.

                         Judge Hodges is a man of impeccable integrity, someone
                 we are proud to have as our friend and colleague. We are most
                 grateful for his numerous contributions to the federal judiciary and
                 the administration of justice. While we will miss his wise counsel
                 at Judicial Conference and Executive Committee sessions, we look
                 forward to working with him in the future and to our continued
                 friendships with him and his wife, Peggy, in the years to come.


        BANKRUPTCY APPELLATE STRUCTURE

                In September 1998, in response to a recommendation of the National
        Bankruptcy Review Commission, the Judicial Conference voted to support
        simplification of appellate review of dispositive orders of bankruptcy judges, but
        urged that no change in the bankruptcy appellate process be considered until the
        judiciary had an opportunity to study further the existing process and possible
        alternative structures and submit a report to Congress. Pending completion of the
        study, the Conference opposed the appeal as of right from dispositive orders of
        bankruptcy judges directly to the courts of appeals (JCUS-SEP 98, pp. 46-47).
        After considering a study conducted by the Federal Judicial Center and with the
        concurrence of the Court Administration and Case Management Committee, the
        Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System recommended that
        the Judicial Conference propose to Congress the following revised bankruptcy
        appellate structure:


                                                 44
                                                                    September 15, 1999


       Appeals from dispositive orders of bankruptcy judges should
       continue to be taken to the district court or to the bankruptcy
       appellate panel, if one has been established, with further appeal as
       of right to the court of appeals. Additionally, the dispositive orders
       of bankruptcy judges should be reviewable directly in the court of
       appeals if, upon certification from the district court or the
       bankruptcy appellate panel, or upon motion by all parties to the
       appeal, the court of appeals determines that (1) a substantial
       question of law or matter of public importance is presented and (2)
       an immediate appeal from the order to the court of appeals is in the
       interest of justice.

Because of the likelihood of early congressional action, the Executive Committee
approved the recommendation on behalf of the Conference. Subsequently, in
response to an inquiry from Senator Patrick Leahy, the Executive Committee
agreed to endorse a variation of the above position that would delete the words “or
upon motion by all parties to the appeal.”


CLASS ACTION LEGISLATION

        Pending legislation, S. 353 and H.R. 1875 (106th Congress), would expand
federal jurisdiction over class actions by permitting the initial filing in or removal
to federal court of almost all such actions now brought in the state courts. The
Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction recommended to the Executive
Committee that the Judicial Conference oppose the legislation, noting concerns
that the provisions would add substantially to the workload of the federal courts
and are inconsistent with principles of federalism. The Executive Committee also
considered the views of the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, which
believed that the Conference should defer taking a formal position opposing the
legislation at this time, and instead, should encourage Congress to continue
exploring with the judiciary less intrusive and burdensome approaches. The
Executive Committee voted on behalf of the Conference to express its opposition
to the class action provisions in the two bills in their present form. A letter for
transmittal to Congress stating the Conference’s position was approved by the
Committee. See also infra, “Committee Activities,” p. 62.




                                         45
Judicial Conference of the United States



        COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS LEGISLATION

                 Several provisions relating to the Court of Federal Claims were submitted
        to Congress for inclusion in the judiciary’s federal courts improvement bill. The
        Executive Committee considered the proposed amendments and determined to
        (a) ask that a section authorizing service by Federal Claims Court judges on
        territorial courts not be pursued; (b) express no objection to a provision that makes
        the residence of a retired Federal Claims Court judge his or her “official duty
        station”; (c) support a provision dealing with Court of Federal Claims judicial
        conferences, so long as the conferences are held in Washington, D.C.; (d) pose no
        objection to a section that provides that the annuity paid to any retired Federal
        Claims Court judge after age 65 be treated the same for Federal Insurance
        Contributions Act (FICA) tax and social security coverage as the annuity paid to an
        Article III judge on senior status, so long as the exemption from FICA tax is
        provided only in the context of a judge's performing judicial service under 28
        U.S.C. § 178(d) (see JCUS-MAR 92, p. 24); (e) support a provision that clarifies
        that Federal Claims Court judges are “officers” within the meaning of title 5 for
        purposes of federal employee insurance and annuity programs (see JCUS-MAR 92,
        p. 24); (f) oppose a section dealing with life insurance coverage of Claims Court
        judges under the Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) program, in
        order to study whether to extend certain coverage (now available to Article III
        judges) to Claims Court judges as well as to bankruptcy, magistrate, and territorial
        judges; (g) oppose a provision that would exempt Federal Claims Court judges
        from the requirement that a Federal Employees Health Benefits Program enrollee
        must have enrolled in the program for at least five years prior to retirement in order
        to continue participation and study the impact this section would have on non-
        Article III judges (such an exemption is currently provided only to Article III
        judges who retire on senior status); and (h) pose no objection to a revised proposed
        amendment to 28 U.S.C. § 797 that would authorize the chief judge of the Court of
        Federal Claims to recall, in certain circumstances, a judge who had retired based
        on disability under 28 U.S.C. § 178(c).




                                                 46
                                                                 September 15, 1999



MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

    The Executive Committee:

C   Approved proposed interim financial plans for fiscal year 2000 for the
    Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Fees of Jurors and
    Commissioners, and Court Security accounts, based on appropriations
    levels midway between the House and Senate allowances, and authorized
    the Director of the Administrative Office to make technical and other
    adjustments as deemed necessary.

C   Opposed strongly the imposition of any assessment of costs related to the
    storage of case files by the National Archives and Records Administration
    and authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to seek
    administrative relief or, failing that, legislation exempting the federal courts
    from any assessment of costs related to case files storage.

C   Opposed a proposed $25 increase in chapter 7 and 13 bankruptcy filing fees
    to provide additional funds for the Department of Justice’s United States
    trustee program.

C   Endorsed a Court Administration and Case Management Committee-
    proposed amendment to 28 U.S.C. § 112(c) to add Central Islip, New York
    as a place of holding court (see also infra, “Places of Holding
    Court/Official Duty Stations,” p. 51) and an amendment to 28 U.S.C. §
    124(c) to redistribute the counties among the divisions of the Eastern
    District of Texas.

C   On recommendation of the Security and Facilities Committee, opposed as
    unnecessary provisions in S. 599 (106th Congress) (and any other similar
    legislation) that assign to the Director of the Administrative Office the
    duties of issuing regulations for entities operating child care centers in
    judicial facilities and enforcing compliance with them.

C   Agreed to defer seeking legislation approved in 1995 by the Judicial
    Conference to create a Judicial Conference Foundation (JCUS-MAR 95,
    p. 6) until after January 6, 2001.



                                      47
Judicial Conference of the United States


        C        In light of the Judicial Conference’s strong opposition to cameras in
                 courtrooms, determined to oppose the judiciary’s federal courts
                 improvement bill if it includes a provision authorizing presiding judges of
                 district and appellate courts to permit media coverage of court proceedings.

        C        Agreed to advise the Defender Services Committee to defer seeking
                 enactment of legislation authorizing reimbursement or indemnification of
                 Criminal Justice Act (CJA) panel attorneys for malpractice and related
                 actions arising from their CJA services.

        C        Approved, on recommendation of the Defender Services Committee,
                 payment of $75 per hour to CJA attorneys in a highly complicated case in
                 the Southern District of Florida.

        C        Supported, at the behest of the Security and Facilities Committee, the
                 Federal Judiciary Protection Act of 1999 (S. 113, 106th Congress), which
                 would, among other things, increase criminal penalties for assaulting or
                 threatening federal judges, their family members, and other public servants.

        C        Approved revisions to the jurisdictional statement of the Economy
                 Subcommittee of the Budget Committee.

        C        Declined to approve a request to allow second law clerks, authorized to
                 bankruptcy courts with pending judgeship requests, to be hired in the
                 previous fiscal year.

        C        Approved an interim delegation of authority to the Financial Disclosure
                 Committee to allow it to act for the Conference, through a subcommittee,
                 in reviewing requests for redaction of harmful information from financial
                 disclosure reports, pending approval by the Judicial Conference of
                 regulations implementing the “Identity Theft and Assumption Deterrence
                 Act of 1998” (Public Law No. 105-318). See infra, “Release of Financial
                 Disclosure Reports,” p. 63.

        C        Authorized the release, after the Conference has acted, of the summaries
                 prepared for the Judicial Resources Committee by the Administrative
                 Office in response to requests for additional Article III judgeships.




                                                  48
                                                                       September 15, 1999


    C      On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee and the Court
           Administration and Case Management Committee, opposed a provision in
           S. 625, 106th Congress, that would require copies of federal tax returns of
           individual chapter 7 and 13 debtors to be filed with and maintained by the
           courts and noted that responsibility for collection and maintenance of
           debtors’ tax returns would more appropriately be assigned to the United
           States trustees.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on the Administrative Office was briefed on the
    Administrative Office’s progress in developing a long-term care insurance program
    and a flexible benefits plan for judicial officers and employees. It discussed
    ongoing and planned comprehensive assessments of a number of judiciary
    programs, including space and facilities, probation and pretrial services, court
    security, and information technology. The Committee received an update on the
    financial management improvement activities underway in the Administrative
    Office and discussed the status of the judiciary’s budget and the potential for future
    funding difficulty. It also considered the AO’s long-range planning efforts and
    discussed how the Committee may begin to identify strategic issues affecting the
    Administrative Office and the judiciary. The Committee praised the Administrative
    Office for its efforts in resolving the crisis created for federal judges when the
    Office of Personnel Management proposed a significant increase in the Federal
    Employees’ Group Life Insurance Option B premium rates for individuals aged 65
    and older.


COMMITTEE ON AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGY
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Automation and Technology considered issues related
    to establishing publically accessible electronic repositories of opinions and
    received updates on several major information technology initiatives, including the
    case management/electronic case files project, the courtroom technology initiative,


                                             49
Judicial Conference of the United States


        the virtual law library project, and the administrative stewardship projects (Human
        Resources Management Information System (HRMIS), CJA Panel Attorney
        Payment System, Financial and Accounting System for Tomorrow (FAS4T), Jury
        Management System (JMS), and Integrated Library System (ILS)). It also
        reviewed the status of year 2000 compliance within the judiciary.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

        BANKRUPTCY JUDGE RECALL REGULATIONS

                   On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
        Bankruptcy System, the Judicial Conference approved amendments to the
        Regulations Governing the Ad Hoc Recall of Retired Bankruptcy Judges and the
        Regulations Governing the Extended Recall Service of Retired Bankruptcy Judges
        to clarify the regulations, improve their flexibility, and eliminate unnecessary
        provisions. The amendments to the extended service recall regulations (a) clarify
        that it is the judicial council of the circuit in which a retired bankruptcy judge will
        serve that is required to certify that the judge will perform substantial service; and
        (b) modify the regulations, which had provided for a fixed term of three years, by
        permitting variable periods of extended service for recalled bankruptcy judges
        ranging from more than a year to three years.

                 The amendments to both the ad hoc and extended service recall regulations
        clarify that any bankruptcy judge who retires under the Judicial Retirement System
        (28 U.S.C. § 377) and who thereafter practices law is not eligible for recall and (as
        provided in 28 U.S.C. § 155(b)) that a retired bankruptcy judge may be directly
        recalled to serve as a bankruptcy judge by any circuit (not just the circuit in which
        the judge formerly served). These amendments also eliminate the largely pro
        forma requirement for Bankruptcy Committee approval of a request for the
        intercircuit assignment of a bankruptcy judge on recall service. See also infra,
        “Magistrate Judge Recall Regulations,” pp. 68-69.




                                                  50
                                                                       September 15, 1999



    PLACES OF HOLDING COURT/OFFICIAL DUTY STATIONS

            Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(1), the Judicial Conference is responsible
    for determining the official duty stations of bankruptcy judges and their places of
    holding court. On recommendation of the Committee, after consultation by the
    Director of the Administrative Office with the respective judicial councils, the
    Conference agreed to—

    a.     approve the designation of Central Islip as the official duty station for the
           two bankruptcy judges currently stationed in Westbury and the bankruptcy
           judge stationed in Hauppauge and delete the latter two locations as official
           duty stations in the Eastern District of New York (to be effective on the
           date the bankruptcy court moves to a new courthouse in Central Islip); and

    b.     approve the designation of Sheboygan, Wisconsin, as an additional place of
           holding bankruptcy court and delete the designation of Manitowoc as a
           place of holding bankruptcy court in the Eastern District of Wisconsin.


COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
    FISCAL YEAR 2001 BUDGET REQUEST

            In light of the congressional budget environment, the Budget Committee
    recommended a fiscal year 2001 budget request that is lower than the funding
    levels proposed by the program committees. The Judicial Conference approved the
    request, subject to amendments necessary as a result of new legislation, actions of
    the Judicial Conference, or other reasons the Director of the Administrative Office
    considers necessary and appropriate.


    BUDGET DECENTRALIZATION GUIDELINES

             In September 1995, the budget decentralization guidelines were amended
    to allow circuit judicial councils to reprogram monies between temporary
    emergency funds (TEF), which are intended for employment of short-term
    temporary secretaries and law clerks, and tenant alteration funds (JCUS-SEP 95,


                                             51
Judicial Conference of the United States


        p. 73). There is no express provision in the guidelines prohibiting judicial councils
        from using this authority to reprogram TEF funds from judicial council budgets to
        other court units, where they can be used not only for tenant alterations, but also
        for other purposes. To ensure that these funds are used for their intended purpose,
        on recommendation of the Budget Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to
        modify the budget decentralization guidelines expressly to prohibit reprogramming
        for any other purpose of temporary emergency and tenant alteration funds allotted
        to the circuit councils.


COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
        CODE OF CONDUCT FOR UNITED STATES JUDGES

                The Code of Conduct for United States Judges was amended in September
        1992 to incorporate gender-neutral phrasing. In the course of making those
        changes, Canon 3C(1)(c) was altered in a way that appeared to require judges to
        recuse themselves due to the fiduciary holdings of a spouse or minor resident child,
        absent any other beneficial or legal interest that might independently necessitate
        the judges’ recusal. The Committee on Codes of Conduct determined that the
        alteration was unintentional and inconsistent with 28 U.S.C. § 455(b)(4) and
        prevailing authority. The Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference
        approved, the following revision to Canon 3C(1)(c), which returns the canon to its
        pre-1992 phrasing (with the exception of gender neutral language that will be
        retained) and conforms the canon more closely to the corresponding statutory
        provision. (New material is in bold, deleted material is struck out.)

                 (1) A judge shall disqualify himself or herself in a proceeding in
                 which the judge’s impartiality might reasonably be questioned,
                 including but not limited to instances in which:

                          (c) the judge knows that the judge, individually or as a
                          fiduciary, the judge or the judge’s spouse or minor child
                          residing in the household, has a financial interest in the
                          subject matter in controversy or in a party to the proceeding,
                          or any other interest that could be affected substantially by
                          the outcome of the proceeding. . . .



                                                    52
                                                                        September 15, 1999


COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
AND CASE MANAGEMENT

    ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION

             The Alternative Dispute Resolution Act of 1998 (Public Law No. 105-315),
    which expanded the role of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) in the federal
    district courts, requires district courts to establish, subject to regulations approved
    by the Judicial Conference, the amount of compensation, if any, that each arbitrator
    or neutral shall receive for services rendered under Chapter 44 of title 28 of the
    United States Code (28 U.S.C. § 658(a)). On recommendation of the Committee
    on Court Administration and Case Management, the Judicial Conference approved
    for inclusion in the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures the following
    regulation regarding the compensation of alternative dispute resolution neutrals
    (including arbitrators):

           All district courts must establish a local rule or policy regarding the
           compensation, if any, of neutrals for services rendered under
           Chapter 44 of title 28, United States Code, §§ 651-658. Discretion
           remains with the court as to whether that rule or policy should
           provide that neutrals serve pro bono or for a fee. As long as
           funding is not provided pursuant to the Act, the Judicial Conference
           does not encourage courts to institute rules or policies providing for
           court-funded, non-staff alternative dispute resolution neutrals.

            In addition to the regulation, the Committee recommended, and the
    Conference approved, the following two non-mandatory principles and
    accompanying commentary, to be published in the Guide, that are intended to
    assist courts in developing local compensation procedures:

    •      Where an ADR program provides for the neutral to receive compensation
           for services, the court should make explicit the rate of and limitations upon
           compensation.

           Commentary: Methods of compensation for ADR neutrals vary
           widely from court to court. Some courts use a panel of neutrals who
           serve completely pro bono. Other courts use a modified program,
           where a certain number of hours are provided free of charge, with a


                                              53
Judicial Conference of the United States


                 fixed hourly rate thereafter to be paid by the parties, while still
                 others have a fixed per-case payment schedule. Other programs
                 have left the matter of compensation to the participants themselves,
                 for negotiation with the neutral. Whatever funding mechanism is
                 decided upon, the court’s rule should minimize undue burden and
                 expense for parties electing to use ADR.

        •        When an ADR program provides for neutrals to receive compensation, the
                 court should require both the neutrals and the parties to disclose all fee
                 and expense requirements and limitations in the ADR process. A
                 participant who is unable to afford the cost of ADR should be excused from
                 paying.

                 Commentary: Where courts permit neutrals to charge a fee to ADR
                 participants, fee disputes can be prevented through disclosure of the
                 fee arrangements. If the court intends to require a certain level of
                 pro bono service in order to participate as a neutral in a court-
                 annexed ADR program, the level of the pro bono commitment
                 should be explicitly defined.


        RECORDS MANAGEMENT

                The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management considered
        and made recommendations on two issues related to record-keeping policies and
        practices of the federal courts, both stemming from a 1992 evaluation and report by
        the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA).

                Storage and Retention of Sealed Court Records. Prior to 1995, the Guide to
        Judiciary Policies and Procedures prohibited sealed records from being retired to
        NARA federal records centers (FRCs) until such time as the seal was vacated.
        However, the 1992 NARA evaluation found that seals were often not vacated in a
        timely fashion, which resulted in a buildup of files in court space. In 1995, NARA
        partially addressed this problem by permitting temporary sealed records with an
        established date for vacating the seal to be stored at the FRCs. Similar regulations
        were subsequently included in the Guide. At this session, the Judicial Conference
        slightly modified, and then adopted, the following non-mandatory guidelines
        recommended by the Committee, to provide courts with further guidance on
        management of sealed records:

                                                  54
                                                                    September 15, 1999


a.     Courts should consider establishing a practice for judges, when sealing
       records, to specify a date when a seal may be vacated, or to state that a
       record should be sealed permanently.

b.     Courts should be encouraged to review and consider unsealing older bodies
       of sealed material, particularly in cases sealed by judges no longer on the
       bench, and set a presumptive time-frame after a record has been sealed
       when it may be unsealed, with the burden on the litigants to establish why
       the seal should be maintained.

c.     Courts should be encouraged to review their sealed records and transfer to
       the National Archives and Records Administration’s federal records centers
       any that belong to temporary case files.2

       To assist courts in the process of transferring sealed records to the FRCs,
the Conference adopted a Committee recommendation to modify the guidelines for
disposal of sealed records found in Volume XIII, Chapter XVII, Part A of the
Guide to include the following:

a.     Sealed records are not to be retired in the same accessions (shipments of
       documents) as unrestricted case files;

b.     NARA Standard Form 135, Accessions of Sealed Records, should clearly
       indicate that the records are sealed and include the date when seals may be
       vacated; and

c.     Sealed records that relate to permanent case files are not to be retired in the
       same accessions as temporary records.




2
  "Temporary" case files refer to cases (after 1969) that were terminated prior to
trial. "Permanent" case files relate to cases that were terminated during or after
trial or that have been determined by NARA or the court to have historical value.
See Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, Vol. XIII, chap. XVII, Part A, p.
19 et seq.

                                         55
Judicial Conference of the United States


                Court Records Designated “Disposal Not Authorized.” In September 1982,
        the Judicial Conference approved and incorporated into the Guide to Judiciary
        Policies and Procedures disposition schedules for court records that had been
        developed jointly by the Administrative Office and NARA (JCUS-SEP 82, pp.
        118-119). There were, however, a number of categories of records that the
        judiciary considered to have permanent historical value, but which NARA
        appraised as lacking archival value and therefore considered temporary. The
        designation “disposal not authorized” was created by the Administrative Office to
        resolve temporarily the dispute between NARA and the judiciary. NARA
        appraisers and the Administrative Office have since reached agreement on a
        disposition schedule for these records. On recommendation of the Committee on
        Court Administration and Case Management, the Judicial Conference agreed to
        adopt the following records retention and disposition schedules for cases currently
        designated “disposal not authorized” and, pending official approval from NARA,
        to direct Administrative Office staff to include the schedules in Volume XIII,
        Chapter XVII, Part A of the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures:

        a.       Attorney Disbarment Proceedings – Permanent – Transfer to FRCs after
                 five years. Transfer to NARA’s permanent collection when 25 years old.

        b.       Attorney Admission Records – Permanent – Transfer to FRCs after five
                 years. Transfer to NARA’s permanent collection when 25 years old.

        c.       Files on Disciplinary Actions Against Attorneys – Transfer to FRCs after
                 five years. Destroy when 50 years old.

        d.       Formal Actions and Minutes of the Circuit Judicial Councils – Permanent –
                 Transfer to FRCs after five years. Transfer to NARA’s permanent
                 collection when 25 years old.

        e.       Appellate Judicial Assignments and Designations – Transfer to FRCs when
                 no longer needed for reference. Destroy when 50 years old.


        DIGITAL AUDIO COURT RECORDING

                In September 1997, the Judicial Conference authorized a one-year study of
        the use of digital audio court recording in court proceedings to assist in the
        determination of whether it should be added as an approved method of taking the

                                                 56
                                                                      September 15, 1999


record under 28 U.S.C. § 753(b) (JCUS-SEP 97, p. 63). Digital audio recording is
a computer-based system with features similar to audio recording systems, except
that the recorded proceedings are stored and retrieved through the use of a
computer requiring specialized hardware and software. Based on the study’s
findings that digital audio recording technology can provide a reliable, accurate
record of court proceedings and the basis for accurate, timely transcript delivery,
the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management recommended and
the Judicial Conference approved digital audio recording technology as a method
of taking the official record in federal court, to be implemented upon the
development of guidelines by the Director of the Administrative Office. The
guidelines should include technical and functional system requirements and a self-
assessment tool for courts to use when deciding whether to purchase digital audio
recording systems. Additional funds over the cost of analog systems will not be
provided.


CIVIL JUSTICE REFORM ACT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

        Pending Date for Motions. The Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990 (CJRA)
(Public Law No. 101-650) requires, inter alia, that the Director of the
Administrative Office prepare semi-annual reports showing, by judicial officer,
motions pending for more than six months. Prior to this session, the standard
provided that the pending date for a motion (the date from which the six-month
clock begins to run) is 30 days after the date of filing (JCUS-SEP 91, pp. 45-46).
The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management was asked to
consider changing the definition of pending to “when the motion is fully
submitted” in light of the practice of some courts to require the movant to hold all
motion papers and submit them to the court only after all the responses and replies
from all parties are complete. The Committee recommended that the existing
definition of pending be retained, but the language be expanded to address the
procedures of those courts that have adopted a “holding” rule. The Conference,
after discussion, agreed to amend the instructions for the CJRA report on civil
motions pending over six months (as provided in the Guide to Judiciary Policies
and Procedures) to state that for each district and magistrate judge, the pending
date for a motion to be reported is 30 days after the motion is filed or, if the motion
papers are not filed until the motion is fully briefed, then the date the motion is first
served. If no decision on the motion has been entered on the docket six months
after the pending



                                           57
Judicial Conference of the United States




        date, the motion should be reported as pending before the district or magistrate
        judge. The Conference further agreed to request that each circuit council review
        local rules that include holding procedures for the filing of motions to ensure that
        such rules or practices are consistent with Rule 5(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil
        Procedure.

                Social Security Appeals. In September 1998, the Judicial Conference
        required that social security appeals be included in CJRA statistical reports in the
        same way as motions in civil cases, but with a pending date from which the six-
        month clock begins to run set at 60 days after the filing of the transcript in the case
        (JCUS-SEP 98, p. 63). Noting that often responses in social security appeals are
        not filed within 60 days after the filing of the transcript and appeals are not ready
        for decision in that time, the Committee on Court Administration and Case
        Management, with the concurrence of the Committee on the Administration of the
        Magistrate Judges System, recommended that the Judicial Conference amend the
        pending date in social security appeals from 60 to 120 days after the filing of the
        transcript. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
        DNA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS

                 The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is authorized to establish and
        maintain an index of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) identification records, collected
        by or on behalf of criminal justice agencies, to serve as a national storage medium
        for such records (42 U.S.C. § 14132; 28 U.S.C. § 531 note). However,
        individuals convicted in federal and military courts are not currently required by
        statute to provide DNA samples for analysis and inclusion in the FBI’s national
        DNA database. The proposed “Violent Offender DNA Identification Act of 1999”
        (S. 903, 106th Congress) would require certain federal convicted offenders to
        submit to DNA collection and analysis for entry into the database, and addresses
        DNA sample analysis, quality assurance standards, testing methods, and
        regulations governing purpose and confidentiality. The responsibility for
        collecting samples from prisoners would reside with the Federal Bureau of Prisons,
        but probation officers would be responsible for coordinating testing for those under
        supervision. On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial

                                                  58
                                                                    September 15, 1999


Conference agreed to take no position on the proposed legislation so long as the
judiciary is fully funded to implement the required provisions.


INTENSIVE FIREARMS PROSECUTION

        Intensive firearms prosecution programs are designed to move firearms
prosecutions from state to federal court. In these programs, local, state, and federal
law enforcement officials cooperate to prosecute in federal court virtually all
crimes committed with firearms. Legislation has been introduced in the 106th
Congress (e.g., S. 254, the “Criminal Use of Firearms by Felons (CUFF) Act”) that
would provide for the expansion of these prosecution programs nationwide. The
Judicial Conference adopted the recommendation of the Committee on Criminal
Law that it take no position on proposed legislation to expand intensive firearms
prosecution programs other than to recommend that any such legislation, if
enacted, provide for a proportionate increase in judicial resources to the affected
federal courts.


POST-SENTENCE REPORTS

        Post-sentence reports are prepared by probation officers when presentence
investigation reports are waived by the court and are used by the Federal Bureau of
Prisons (BOP) for classification and designation procedures for defendants
sentenced to incarceration and by probation officers in providing community
supervision. The Committee on Criminal Law, reviewing post-sentence report
procedures with a view toward reducing any unnecessary expenditures of judicial
resources, concluded that BOP’s needs can be met with a report that is streamlined
to include only critical elements necessary to assist in classification and screening.
Moreover, in lieu of a post-sentence report, probation officers can rely on the
investigative information already contained in the offender’s supervision file. On
recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the
following changes to the current practice:

a.     Rename the post-sentence report prepared by probation officers to the
       “Supplemental Informational Report to the Federal Bureau of Prisons”;

b.     Revise the content of the report to include only specific relevant
       information necessary to assist the BOP;


                                          59
Judicial Conference of the United States




        c.       Reduce the frequency of the report’s preparation by requiring the
                 preparation of the report only when the presentence report has been waived
                 by the court and when inmates have more than nine months imprisonment
                 remaining to be served on their sentence; and

        d.       Ask that an ongoing work measurement study be expanded to include the
                 weighting of the work associated with the new supplemental informational
                 report, taking into account the impact of gathering investigative information
                 for the supervision file.


        BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS FOR PROBATION AND PRETRIAL
        SERVICES OFFICE EMPLOYEES

                Under existing policy, the judiciary authorizes initial FBI single-scope
        background investigations for probation and pretrial services officers and conducts
        limited record checks for non-officer personnel in sensitive positions. Noting
        concerns about security and public safety, as well as requirements by other law
        enforcement agencies that probation and pretrial services staff have updated
        background investigations before access is granted to information in certain law
        enforcement databases, the Committee recommended changes to the
        Administrative Office background investigation policy with respect to probation
        and pretrial services officers and assistants. The Judicial Conference approved the
        recommended changes, adopting a policy that (a) in addition to the current initial
        single-scope background investigations for probation and pretrial services officers,
        the Director of the Administrative Office should arrange updated single-scope
        background investigations for all probation and pretrial services officers every five
        years, unless the Director determines that there are classes of employees or
        situations in which updated background investigations are not practical; and (b) the
        Director of the Administrative Office should arrange initial and updated single-
        scope background investigations for all probation and pretrial services officer
        assistants.


        OLEORESIN CAPSICUM PEPPER SPRAY


                                                  60
                                                                      September 15, 1999


           In March 1996, the Judicial Conference adopted a policy authorizing
    probation and pretrial services officers to purchase, carry, and use for law
    enforcement purposes Cap-Stun, a specific brand of oleoresin capsicum (OC)
    pepper spray (a non-lethal spray used in self-defense) (JCUS-MAR 96, p. 18). At
    the time, Cap-Stun was the only product tested and approved by a national law
    enforcement agency. There has since been a proliferation of and continuing
    improvement in OC products. On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal
    Law, the Judicial Conference agreed to clarify its March 1996 policy on Cap-Stun
    by authorizing the Director of the Administrative Office to develop and approve
    minimum product safety and effectiveness standards for OC use, and to allow
    individual offices to use any OC products that meet those standards and local
    needs.


COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
    PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE

             The Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations
    Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law No. 105-277) authorized the judiciary to
    provide reimbursement for a portion of the cost of professional liability insurance
    to certain groups within the judiciary, effective October 1, 1998. The maximum
    reimbursement allowed is one-half the cost of the policy. The Committee on
    Defender Services considered application of this benefit to federal public defender
    organization (FPDO) employees.3 Under the statute, FPDO employees would be
    eligible for reimbursement from their respective organizations’ existing budgets
    only if they are “supervisors” and/or “managers” authorized by the Judicial
    Conference to receive the benefit. In accordance with the Committee’s
    recommendations, the Conference designated the federal public defender position
    as a “manager” and/or “supervisor” position eligible to participate in the program
    and authorized individual federal public defenders to make the determination,
    consistent with Judicial Conference guidelines, as to whether other positions in the
    defender’s organization constitute “manager” or “supervisor” positions. The
    Conference adopted the following guidelines, recommended by the Committee, to




    3
     The Committee on Judicial Resources considered application of this statute to
    other judiciary employees. See infra, “Professional Liability Insurance,” pp. 66-67.

                                             61
Judicial Conference of the United States


        be applied by federal public defenders in determining eligibility for the program4:

        1.       Participation of an FPDO in the program is at the discretion of the federal
                 public defender. No additional funds will be provided to an FPDO’s
                 budget for this purpose.

        2.       The program is limited to “management officials” and “supervisors” within
                 the FPDOs, as those terms are defined in 5 U.S.C. § 7103(a).

        3.       Generally, a person occupying an attorney position is not eligible for the
                 program unless he/she serves in a supervisory capacity.

        4.       The program must be administered fairly within an individual FPDO, such
                 that all qualified employees with the same or similar job descriptions must
                 be eligible to participate. Eligibility determinations should be based upon
                 examination of particular positions and their duties rather than the
                 individuals occupying those positions.

        5.       A federal public defender’s plan for implementing this program must be set
                 out in writing and announced to employees before implementation.


        DEFENDER ORGANIZATION FUNDING REQUESTS

                Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR
        89, pp. 16-17), the Defender Services Committee approved $151,300 to establish a
        new federal public defender organization and a new community defender
        organization. It also approved increases totaling $467,800 for the fiscal year 1999
        budgets of one FPDO and of the Federal Defender Training Group.


COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION


        4
          Subsequent to the Conference session, Congress enacted Public Law No. 106-58,
        which requires reimbursement for a portion of the cost of professional liability
        insurance to all interested, eligible employees. The Judicial Conference guidelines
        will need to be revised to reflect the new requirement.

                                                  62
                                                                        September 15, 1999


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction recommended that the
    Judicial Conference oppose S. 353 and H.R. 1875 (106th Congress), which would
    expand federal court jurisdiction over class action suits. On behalf of the Judicial
    Conference, the Executive Committee voted to oppose the class action provisions
    in these bills, in their present form (see supra, “Class Action Legislation,” p. 45).


COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
    RELEASE OF FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORTS

            Section 105 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. app. 4
    § 105), as amended by section 7 of the “Identity Theft and Assumption Deterrence
    Act of 1998” (Public Law No. 105-318)5, authorizes the Judicial Conference to
    redact information in a financial disclosure report when the Conference, in
    consultation with the United States Marshals Service, decides that revealing
    personal and sensitive information could endanger the individual filer. The
    Conference, in consultation with the Department of Justice, is required to issue
    regulations setting forth the circumstances under which redaction is appropriate
    and the procedures for redaction. In recommending regulations, the Committee on
    Financial Disclosure considered the views of the Department of Justice and also of
    the Security and Facilities Committee, which had some concerns regarding the
    failure of the proposed regulations to include specific Marshals Service procedures.
    After discussion, the Judicial Conference approved the recommendation of the
    Committee on Financial Disclosure that it adopt the regulations proposed by that
    Committee implementing § 105 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as
    amended, governing the release of financial disclosure reports to the public. See
    also supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” p. 48.


COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES


    5
        This amendment will expire on December 31, 2001.

                                              63
Judicial Conference of the United States


                The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the period
        from January 1, 1999, to June 30, 1999, a total of 59 intercircuit assignments,
        undertaken by 43 Article III judges, were processed and recommended by the
        Committee and approved by the Chief Justice. In addition, the Committee aided
        courts requesting assistance in identifying judges willing to take assignments.




                                            64
                                                                       September 15, 1999


COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
    UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

             Under an interagency agreement between the Judicial Conference and the
    United States Agency for International Development’s (USAID) Center for
    Democracy and Governance (“Democracy Center”), USAID has provided
    $345,915 to the judiciary through the Federal Judicial Center Foundation for use in
    developing and administering international rule-of-law programs. Although a
    second grant of $500,000, accepted by the Judicial Conference in September 1997
    (JCUS-SEP 97, pp. 72-73), never materialized, the Democracy Center is interested
    in continuing to fund future programs involving the federal judiciary, particularly
    short-term strategic interventions and assessments involving foreign judiciaries.
    The Judicial Conference approved a Committee recommendation that it endorse in
    principle the USAID’s use of a contract-based mechanism rather than a new
    interagency agreement to fund international judicial reform and rule-of-law
    activities involving the federal judiciary.


    JUDICIAL OBSERVER PROGRAMS

            Programs currently ongoing in at least two law schools provide foreign
    students with an opportunity to observe first-hand how the rule of law, judicial
    independence, and the administration of justice are effectuated in the federal
    courts. On recommendation of the Committee on International Judicial Relations
    that the judiciary’s participation in such programs be expanded, the Judicial
    Conference agreed to encourage courts to expose foreign lawyers and/or foreign
    law students enrolled in United States law schools (in LL.M. programs or
    otherwise) to the work of the courts in the United States and to the operation of the
    rule of law in those courts.


COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
    THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN

          Presently, the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) does not allow enrollees to roll-
    over money from 401(k) and other qualified accounts into TSP accounts, although


                                             65
Judicial Conference of the United States


        a federal employee who leaves government service may roll TSP funds into a
        private sector retirement plan. In the private sector, large employers commonly
        allow roll-overs of distributions from one eligible retirement plan to another.
        Legislation pending in the 106th Congress (H.R. 208) would amend the TSP to
        provide this benefit to federal employees. On recommendation of the Committee
        on the Judicial Branch, the Judicial Conference endorsed the concept of allowing
        Thrift Savings Plan enrollees to transfer funds from qualified retirement plans of
        previous employers to TSP accounts.


        TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES JUSTICES AND JUDGES


                 Reporting of Non-Case Related Travel. At its March 1999 session, the
        Judicial Conference directed the Committee on the Judicial Branch to prepare a
        proposed amendment to the Travel Regulations for United States Justices and
        Judges that would substantially incorporate, for the purpose of reporting a judge’s
        non-case related travel, the travel reporting requirements for members of the
        United States Senate (JCUS-MAR 99, pp. 19-20). At this session, the Judicial
        Conference approved the Committee’s proposed regulations, effective October 1,
        1999, which are designed to make reporting as easy as possible and yet satisfy
        congressional requests for information about non-case related travel. They apply to
        circuit, district, bankruptcy and magistrate judges as well as to judges of the United
        States Court of International Trade, the United States Court of Federal Claims and
        territorial district courts.

                Alternative Method for Computing Per Diem Travel Reimbursement. To
        mitigate the adverse effects on judges of reductions in per diem rates in some
        locations, the Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved,
        proposed amendments to the Travel Regulations for United States Justices and
        Judges to allow judges to claim the cost of lodging as well as to take the standard
        meals and incidental expenses allowance (presently $46 per day) authorized under
        the judges’ travel regulations. This change is consistent with executive branch
        practice.

                Laundry, Cleaning, and Pressing Expenses and Lodging Taxes. Under the
        judges’ travel regulations, a judge may claim reimbursement for the cost of
        laundry, cleaning and pressing of clothing while on travel as a subsistence expense
        (Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, Vol. III, Ch. XV, § E.2.b.(4)). On


                                                 66
                                                                      September 15, 1999


    recommendation of the Committee, and consistent with recent General Services
    Administration amendments to the Federal Travel Regulations, the Conference
    amended the judges’ travel regulations to allow judges to claim reimbursement for
    these expenses, as well as lodging taxes, as reimbursable miscellaneous
    transportation expenses.


COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
    PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE

            The Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations
    Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law No. 105-277) authorized the judiciary to
    provide reimbursement for a portion of the cost of professional liability insurance
    to certain groups within the judiciary, effective October 1, 1998. The maximum
    reimbursement allowed is one-half the cost of the policy. The legislation is
    applicable to three groups within the third branch: (1) justices and judges; (2) law
    enforcement officers (i.e., probation and pretrial services officers); and (3)
    “supervisors and managers within the Judicial Branch as authorized by the Judicial
    Conference of the United States.” The Committee on Judicial Resources
    considered implementation of the statute for “supervisors” and “managers” within
    the judiciary, excluding federal public defender organizations.6 On
    recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed that court unit
    executive positions would be designated as “manager” and /or “supervisor”
    positions eligible to participate in the program. Further, court unit executives
    (including chief probation and chief pretrial services officers for non-officer
    managers and supervisors) will be authorized to determine which positions within
    their units are managerial or supervisory for purposes of the program, consistent
    with Judicial Conference guidelines. The Conference approved the following
    guidelines proposed by the Committee7:



    6
     The Committee on Defender Services made recommendations to the Conference
    regarding application of the statute to federal public defender organization
    employees. See supra, “Professional Liability Insurance,” pp. 61-62.
    7
     As noted in footnote 4 (p. 61, supra), subsequent legislation (Public Law No.
    106-58) makes reimbursement to eligible and interested employees mandatory.
    These guidelines will need to be revised to reflect this new requirement.

                                             67
Judicial Conference of the United States



        1.       A court’s participation in the program is discretionary. However, any
                 participating court must have a written plan that is announced to employees
                 before the program is implemented.

        2.       Participation of a court unit in the program is at the discretion of the court
                 unit executive; however, to the extent possible, co-located courts of
                 appeals, district courts, and bankruptcy courts should endeavor to develop
                 compatible programs. No additional funds will be provided to a court
                 unit’s budget for this purpose.

        3.       The program is limited to “management officials” and “supervisors” within
                 the courts, as those terms are defined in section 7103(a) of title 5, United
                 States Code.

        4.       Generally, a person occupying an attorney or a law clerk position is not
                 eligible for the program unless the person serves in a supervisory capacity.

        5.       The program must be administered fairly within an individual court, such
                 that all qualified employees with the same or similar job descriptions must
                 be eligible to participate. Eligibility determinations should be based upon
                 examination of particular positions and their duties rather than the
                 individuals occupying those positions.


        CIRCUIT EXECUTIVE’S OFFICE STAFFING

                In September 1996, the Judicial Conference approved a temporary
        architect/engineer position in the District of Columbia Circuit Executive’s office
        for a three-year period to assist in a multi-year construction project to build an
        annex to the existing courthouse (JCUS-SEP 96, p. 63). Because the project is
        ongoing, the Conference approved, at the request of the court and on
        recommendation of the Committee, an extension of the position for two years, until
        the end of fiscal year 2002. The Director of the Administrative Office is
        authorized to extend the position for an additional two years if suitable justification
        is provided in the future.




                                                   68
                                                                       September 15, 1999




    COURT INTERPRETER POSITIONS

            Based on established criteria, the Judicial Resources Committee
    recommended and the Conference approved, two additional court interpreter
    positions for the Southern District of California for fiscal year 2001.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

    MAGISTRATE JUDGE RECALL REGULATIONS

           On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
    Magistrate Judges System, the Judicial Conference approved technical and
    substantive amendments to the Regulations of the Judicial Conference Establishing
    Standards and Procedures for the Recall of United States Magistrate Judges (ad
    hoc recall regulations) and the Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United
    States Governing the Extended Service Recall of Retired United States Magistrate
    Judges (extended service recall regulations). The amendments to the ad hoc and
    extended service recall regulations will, among other things:

    a.     Clarify that a magistrate judge who retires under the Judicial Retirement
           System (28 U.S.C. § 377) and who thereafter practices law is permanently
           ineligible for recall service;

    b.     Clarify that a magistrate judge who is recalled should be referred to as
           “magistrate judge” and has all the powers and duties of an active magistrate
           judge;

    c.     Clarify (as provided in 28 U.S.C. § 636(h)) that a retired magistrate judge
           may be recalled as a magistrate judge in any judicial district by the judicial
           council of the circuit within which the district is located; and

    d.     Incorporate language from the Travel Regulations for United States Justices
           and Judges authorizing payment of transportation and actual subsistence
           expenses for court business conducted inside and outside the corporate

                                             69
Judicial Conference of the United States


                 limits of the recalled judge’s official duty station, which upon retirement
                 becomes the judge’s permanent residence.

                 In addition, the amendments to the extended service recall regulations will
        eliminate language stating that judges on extended service recall are considered
        employees for purposes of retirement under chapter 83, the Civil Service
        Retirement System (CSRS), and chapter 84, the Federal Employees Retirement
        System (FERS), of title 5, United States Code. Judges recalled on an extended
        service basis have no additional retirement rights under CSRS or FERS upon
        recall. See also supra, “Bankruptcy Judge Recall Regulations,” p. 50.


        CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
        recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts
        and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the
        following changes in positions, locations, salaries, and arrangements for full-time
        and part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact are to
        be effective when appropriated funds are available.

        FIRST CIRCUIT

        District of New Hampshire

                 Made no change in the number of positions or the location or arrangements
                 of the existing magistrate judge position in the district.

        FOURTH CIRCUIT

        Middle District of North Carolina

                 Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

        District of South Carolina

        1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Greenville,
                 Spartanburg, or Anderson; and


                                                   70
                                                                  September 15, 1999


2.    Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
      other magistrate judge positions in the district.
(+(6*%+4%7+6

Western District of Texas

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at El Paso;

2.     Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Del Rio to full-time
       status and designated the position as Del Rio or Eagle Pass;

3.     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Del Rio
       from Level 2 ($52,787 per annum) to Level 1 ($58,065 per annum)
       commencing on October 1, 1999, if funds are available; and

4.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       other magistrate judge positions in the district.

5+:6*%+4%7+6

Eastern District of Kentucky

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

Western District of Kentucky

1.     Redesignated the full-time magistrate judge position at Hopkinsville or
       Bowling Green as Owensboro or Bowling Green;

2.     Redesignated the full-time magistrate judge position at Louisville or
       Owensboro as Louisville; and

3.     Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

Northern District of Ohio

       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

                                        71
Judicial Conference of the United States



        5'8'06*%+4%7+6

        Northern District of Illinois

                 Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

        Central District of Illinois

                 Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

        Northern District of Indiana

                 Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

        '+)*6*%+4%7+6

        Eastern District of Arkansas

        1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Little Rock;

        2.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Jonesboro; and

        3.       Made no change in the number, location, or arrangements of the other
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.

        Southern District of Iowa

        1.       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Davenport to full-time
                 status;

        2.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Council Bluffs
                 upon the retirement of the incumbent in September 1999; and

        3.       Made no change in the number, location, or arrangements of the other
                 magistrate judge positions in the district.


                                                  72
                                                                   September 15, 1999


District of South Dakota

1.     Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Sioux Falls to full-
       time status;

2.     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Pierre
       from Level 2 ($52,787 per annum) to Level 1 ($58,065 per annum);

3.     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Rapid City
       from Level 2 ($52,787 per annum) to Level 1 ($58,065 per annum); and

4.     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Aberdeen
       from Level 7 ($5,279 per annum) to Level 6 ($10,557 per annum).

0+06*%+4%7+6

District of Arizona

1.     Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Yuma to full-time
       status; and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

Northern District of California

       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Eureka
       from Level 6 ($10,557 per annum) to Level 5 ($21,115 per annum).

6'06*%+4%7+6

District of Colorado

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

District of Utah

       Made no change in the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
       Saint George.

                                         73
Judicial Conference of the United States



        ACCELERATED FUNDING

               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to
        designate the new magistrate judge positions at Greenville, Spartanburg, or
        Anderson, South Carolina; El Paso and Del Rio, Texas; Little Rock, Arkansas;
        Davenport, Iowa; Sioux Falls, South Dakota; and Yuma, Arizona, for accelerated
        funding in fiscal year 2000.


COMMITTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT
COUNCIL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS
        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                The Committee reported on the status of litigation arising from an order
        issued by the Judicial Council of the Fifth Circuit and affirmed by the Committee,
        imposing sanctions against a district judge.


COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
        FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

                The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
        Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Civil Rules 4 (Summons), 5 (Serving
        and Filing Pleadings and Other Papers), 12 (Defenses and Objections—When and
        How Presented—By Pleading or Motion—Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings),
        14 (Third-Party Practice), 26(d) (Timing and Sequence of Discovery), 26(f)
        (Conference of Parties; Planning for Discovery), and 37 (Failure to Make
        Disclosure or Cooperate in Discovery: Sanctions), along with amendments to the
        Supplemental Admiralty Rules B (In Personam Actions: Attachment and
        Garnishment), C (In Rem Actions: Special Provisions), and E (Actions in Rem and
        Quasi in Rem: General Provisions). The Judicial Conference approved these
        amendments and the accompanying Committee Notes for transmittal to the
        Supreme Court.




                                                74
                                                                 September 15, 1999


         Other amendments to the Civil Rules proposed by the Rules Committee
were debated at the Conference session. The Judicial Conference approved
revisions to Rule 26(a) (Required Disclosures; Methods to Discover Additional
Matter), which would eliminate the local “opt-out” and would narrow mandatory
disclosure requirements; 26(b)(1) (Discovery Scope and Limits: In General), which
would narrow the scope of discovery to matters relevant to “claims or defenses”;
and 30 (Depositions upon Oral Examination), which deals with the length of
depositions. These amendments, as well as those mentioned above, will be
transmitted, accompanied by the Committee Notes explaining their purpose and
intent, to the Supreme Court for its consideration with the recommendation that
they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the
law.

       After discussion, the Judicial Conference declined to approve proposed
amendments to Rules 26(b)(2) (Discovery Scope and Limits: Limitations)8 and 34
(Production of Documents and Things and Entry upon Land for Inspection and
Other Purposes).


FEDERAL RULES OF EVIDENCE

        The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Evidence Rules 103 (Rulings on
Evidence), 404 (Character Evidence Not Admissible to Prove Conduct;
Exceptions; Other Crimes), 701 (Opinion Testimony by Lay Witnesses ), 702
(Testimony by Experts), 703 (Bases of Opinion Testimony by Experts), 803(6)
(Hearsay Exceptions; Availability of Declarant Immaterial), and 902 (Self-
authentication), together with Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent.
These amendments were approved by the Conference without debate, except those
pertaining to Rule 702 (proposed in response to the Supreme Court’s decision in
Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 509 U.S. 579 (1993)), which were
approved after discussion. The Conference authorized the transmittal of these


8
 The proposed amendment to Rule 26(b)(2) that was on the floor of the
Conference concerned cost shifting. The Rules Committee also proposed an
amendment to the same rule dealing with presumptive national limits on
depositions and interrogatories. This latter amendment was approved by the
Conference for transmission to the Supreme Court through a mail ballot concluded
on December 3, 1999.

                                        75
Judicial Conference of the United States


        rules, with the accompanying Committee Notes, to the Supreme Court for its
        consideration with the recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and
        transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


        FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

                The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
        Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1017 (Dismissal
        or Conversion of Case; Suspension), 2002 (Notices to Creditors, Equity Security
        Holders, United States, and United States Trustee), 4003 (Exemptions), 4004
        (Grant or Denial of Discharge), and 5003 (Records Kept by the Clerk). The
        proposed amendments were accompanied by Committee Notes explaining their
        purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference approved the amendments and
        authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court for its consideration with the
        recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in
        accordance with the law.


COMMITTEE ON SECURITY AND FACILITIES
        NAMING FEDERAL COURTHOUSES

                Enactment of legislation naming a federal courthouse for a federal judge
        who has retired from the bench is a way of paying tribute to the judge’s years of
        service dedicated to the administration of justice. However, this action may cause
        concern if the retired judge is a practicing attorney who might appear in the very
        courthouse bearing his or her name. In order to avoid the potential for perceptions
        of bias or conflict of interest, the Judicial Conference approved a recommendation
        of the Committee on Security and Facilities that it oppose naming a courthouse or
        other federal building after a retired federal judge who currently practices law.


        AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATOR PROGRAM

                Automated external defibrillators (AEDs) are portable devices that can
        deliver a life-saving electric shock to a victim of cardiac arrest and dramatically
        improve the victim’s chance of survival. On recommendation of the Committee on
        Security and Facilities, the Judicial Conference endorsed the provision of AED

                                                76
                                                                       September 15, 1999


    services for judicial officers and judiciary employees and agreed that the judiciary
    will assist the United States Marshals Service in establishing a program to provide
    these services at all court facilities, subject to the availability of funds.


FUNDING
            All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of funds
    for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to the
    availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might establish for
    the use of available resources.




                                                  Chief Justice of the United States
                                                  Presiding




                                             77
