Source: http://www.uscourts.gov/uscourts/FederalCourts/judconf/proceedings/2001-03.pdf
        REBORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
        OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
        OF THE UNITED STATES




        MARCH 14, 2001 .
        WASHINGTON, D.C.




i   '




: i
!!
' i'
.

    f   JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES
i   ~
        CHIEF JUSTICE WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST,
        PRESIDING
        LEONIDAS RALPH MECHAM, SECRETARY
REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES

March 14, 2001

     Contents

     Call ofthe Conference .............................................. 1
     Reports ......................................................... 4
     Elections ......................................................... 4
     Executive Committee ............................................... 4
            Financial Disclosure Legislation................................. 4
            Federal Courts Improvement Bill ............................... 4
            Miscellaneous Actions ........................................ 5
     Committee on the Administrative Office ............................... 6
             Wiretap Reports ............................................. 6
             Committee Activities ........................................ 7
     Committee on Automation and Technology ............................. 7
            Long Range Plan for Information Technology. . ................... 7
            Location of Court Records .................................... 7
             Committee Activities ........................................ 8
     Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System ............... 8
             Reappointment of Bankruptcy Judges ............................ 8
             Place of Holding Bankruptcy Court .............................. 9
             Committee Activities ......................................... 9
     Committee on the Budget .......................................... 10
             Transfer of Retirement Funds ................................. 10
             Committee Activities ........................................ 10
     Committee on Codes of Conduct .................................... 10
             Code of Conduct for Judicial Employees ........................ 10
             Committee Activities ........................................ 12
     Committee on Court Administration and Case Management ............... 12
             Miscellaneous Fee Schedules ................................. 12
             Civil Litigation Management Manual ........................... 15
             Juror Qualification Questionnaire .............................. 15
             Social Security Reporting Requirements ......................... 15
             Committee Activities ........................................ 16
     Committee on Criminal Law ....................................... 17
             R\sk Prediction Index ................................. : ...... 17
       Judgments in a Criminal Case ................................. 17
       Committee Activities ......... , .............................. 17
Committee on Defender Services ........ : ........................... 18
       Community Defender Organization Grant and Conditions Agreement . 18
       Reasonable Accommodations for Employees with Disabilities ....... 18
       Professional Liability Insurance ............................... 19
       Amicus Curiae Policy for Federal Defenders ..................... 20
       Use of CJA Resources ....................................... 20
       Committee Activities ........................................ 21
Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction .............................. 21
       Resident Alien Proviso ...................................... 21
     · Committee Activities ........................................ 22
Committee on Financial Disclosure .................................. 22
       Committee Activities ........................................ 22
Committee on Intercircuit Assignments ............................... 23
       Committee Activities ... , ................................... 23
Committee on International Judicial Relations .......................... 23
       Committee Activities .. : ..................................... 23
Committee on the Judicial Branch ................................... 23
       Judicial Compensation ....................................... 23
       Committee Activities ........................................ 24
Committee on JUdicial Resources .................................... 24
       Biennial Survey of Judgeship Needs ............................ 24
       Reasonable Accommodation for Employees with Disabilities ........ 25
       Professional Liability Insurance ............................... 26
       Recruitment and Retention Bonuses ............................ 26
       Law Clerk Student Loans ..................................... 26
       Committee Activities ........................................ 27
Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System .......... 27
       Reimbursement Regulations .................................. 27
       Changes in Magistrate Judge Positions .......................... 28
       Committee Activities ....................................... 30
Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability Orders ....... 31
       Committee Activities · ....................................... 31
Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure ......................... 31
       Committee Activities ........................................ 31
Committee on Security and Facilities ................................. 32
       Construction Submission Process/Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan .. 32
       Release of Space ........................................... 32
       Ergonomics in the Judicial Workplace ......................... 33
       Bankruptcy Jury Boxes ...................................... 33
       Committee Activities ....................................... 33
Funding ........................................................ 34
 R EPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE J UDICIAL C ONFERENCE
OF THE U NITED S TATES


March 14, 2001


              The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
      D.C., on March 14, 2001, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
      United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
      the following members of the Conference were present:

             First Circuit:

                         Chief Judge Juan R. Torruella
                         Chief Judge D. Brock Hornby,
                                District of Maine

             Second Circuit:

                         Chief Judge John M. Walker, Jr.
                         Judge Charles P. Sifton,
                                Eastern District of New York

             Third Circuit:

                         Chief Judge Edward R. Becker
                         Chief Judge Sue L. Robinson,
                                District of Delaware

             Fourth Circuit:

                         Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III
                         Chief Judge Charles H. Haden II,
                                Southern District of West Virginia

             Fifth Circuit:

                         Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King
                         Judge Hayden W. Head, Jr.,
                                Southern District of Texas
Judicial Conference of the United States

                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Boyce F. Martin, Jr.
                                           Judge Thomas A. Wiseman, Jr.,
                                                  Middle District of Tennessee

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel M. Flaum
                                           Chief Judge Marvin E. Aspen,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Roger L. Wollman
                                           Judge James M. Rosenbaum,
                                                  District of Minnesota

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary M. Schroeder
                                           Judge Judith N. Keep,
                                                  Southern District of California

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Deanell R. Tacha
                                           Chief Judge Frank Howell Seay,
                                                  Eastern District of Oklahoma

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge R. Lanier Anderson
                                           Chief Judge Charles R. Butler, Jr.,
                                                  Southern District of Alabama




                                                               2
                                                                    March 14, 2001

            District of Columbia Circuit:

                       Chief Judge Harry T. Edwards
                       Judge Thomas F. Hogan,1
                              District of Columbia

                Federal Circuit:

                       Chief Judge Haldane Robert Mayer

                Court of International Trade:

                       Chief Judge Gregory W. Carman

            Circuit Judges W. Eugene Davis, David R. Hansen, Dennis G. Jacobs,
    Jane R. Roth, Anthony J. Scirica, Walter K. Stapleton, and William W.
    Wilkins, Jr., and District Judges Lourdes G. Baird, Robin J. Cauthron, John G.
    Heyburn II, David F. Levi, John W. Lungstrum, Edwin L. Nelson and Harvey
    E. Schlesinger attended the Conference session. Jan Horbaly of the Federal
    Circuit represented the Circuit Executives.

            Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
    United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence
    A. Lee, Jr., Associate Director for Management and Operations; William R.
    Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel,
    Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Michael W.
    Blommer, Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; David Sellers, Assistant
    Director, Public Affairs; and Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant Director,
    Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat. Judge Fern Smith and Russell
    Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also
    attended the session of the Conference, as did Sally Rider, Administrative
    Assistant to the Chief Justice.

           Senator Jeff Sessions and Representatives Howard Coble and F. James
    Sensenbrenner spoke on matters pending in Congress of interest to the
    Conference. Attorney General John Ashcroft addressed the Conference on
    matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice.




1
    Designated by the Chief Justice.

                                            3
Judicial Conference of the United States


             R EPORTS
                             Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                     courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge Smith
                     spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs, and Judge
                     Diana E. Murphy, Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission, reported
                     on Sentencing Commission activities.


             E LECTIONS
                             The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
                     Federal Judicial Center, each for a term of four years, Chief Bankruptcy Judge
                     Robert F. Hershner, Jr. of the Middle District of Georgia to replace Bankruptcy
                     Judge A. Thomas Small, and Magistrate Judge Robert B. Collings of the
                     District of Massachusetts to replace Magistrate Judge Virginia M. Morgan.


             E XECUTIVE C OMMITTEE

                     FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE LEGISLATION

                             The authority to redact information from financial disclosure reports
                     when the release of such information could endanger a judge or judicial
                     employee was granted to the Judicial Conference by the Identity Theft and
                     Assumption Deterrence Act of 1998 (Public Law No. 105-318), which
                     modified section 105(b) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C.
                     app. § 105(b)). However, this grant of authority is scheduled to expire on
                     December 31, 2001. On recommendation of the Committee on Financial
                     Disclosure, concurred in by the Committee on Security and Facilities, the
                     Executive Committee determined, on behalf of the Judicial Conference, that
                     the judiciary should take prompt action to seek the elimination of the sunset
                     provision found in section 7 of the Identity Theft and Assumption Deterrence
                     Act (5 U.S.C. app. § 105(b)(3)(E)).


                     FEDERAL COURTS IMPROVEMENT BILL

                              Every two years, each Conference committee considers legislative
                     initiatives within its jurisdiction that were approved by the Conference but not


                                                             4
                                                                    March 14, 2001

yet enacted to decide whether those provisions should be pursued in the
upcoming federal courts improvement bill, and notifies the Executive
Committee of its determinations. At its February 2001 meeting, the Executive
Committee reviewed the positions of the committees on whether pending
Conference positions should be pursued in the 107th Congress. With two
exceptions (which were referred back to the relevant committees for further
consideration), the Executive Committee concurred in the determinations of the
committees to include or not to include these provisions in the bill.

       The Executive Committee also reviewed a legislative provision within
its own jurisdiction that had not been enacted and the pursuit of which had
previously been suspended by the Committee since its enactment was unlikely.
This provision would establish a Judicial Conference Foundation to receive and
expend private contributions in support of official programs (JCUS-MAR 95,
p. 6). The Committee determined to continue to defer pursuit of such a
foundation.


MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

       The Executive Committee—

•      Agreed to adjust for inflation the alternative subsistence rate for judges
       itemizing travel expenses and to reinstate the annual automatic inflation
       adjustment to that rate, subject to Executive Committee review;

•      Supported the Financial Disclosure Committee’s adoption of a standard
       for granting waivers of the fee for obtaining copies of financial
       disclosure reports (i.e., a demonstrated inability to pay), and the
       application of that standard to deny a waiver for a media organization
       requesting the 1999 financial disclosure reports of all Article III judges;

•      Received a report of the Magistrate Judges Committee on the growth of
       the magistrate judges system;

•      Asked the Committee on the Administrative Office to undertake a
       review of reports required by law to be produced by the Administrative
       Office;




                                        5
Judicial Conference of the United States

                     •         Approved a resolution honoring Representative Harold Rogers, former
                               Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the
                               Departments of Commerce, Justice, State, the Judiciary, and Related
                               Agencies; and

                     •         Agreed on the need for prompt action to minimize any non-business
                               related activity that is being conducted on court computers; determined
                               to encourage all chief judges to establish policies in their courts on the
                               appropriate use of the Internet; and asked the Committee on
                               Automation and Technology to continue current efforts in information
                               technology (IT) security and to develop a comprehensive plan for
                               improving IT security in the courts.


             C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATIVE O FFICE

                         WIRETAP REPORTS

                                 The Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 requires the
                         Administrative Office to report to Congress annually the number and nature of
                         federal and state applications for orders authorizing or approving the
                         interception of wire, oral or electronic communications (“wiretap orders”)
                         based on reports submitted to the agency by federal and state judges and
                         prosecutors (18 U.S.C. § 2519(1), (2), and (3)). In March 1992, the Judicial
                         Conference determined to seek legislation to have this responsibility
                         transferred to the United States Department of Justice (JCUS-MAR 92, p. 14),
                         but has been unable to win sufficient support in Congress to accomplish this
                         end. In an effort to simplify the process, at this session, the Conference
                         approved an Administrative Office Committee recommendation that the
                         judiciary seek an amendment to 18 U.S.C. § 2519(1) to allow judges to submit
                         a single annual report to the Administrative Office, no later than January of
                         each year, that reports on all wiretap orders for the preceding calendar year
                         rather than an individual report each time a wiretap order is approved or
                         denied. This change would reduce the burden on the judges and their staffs
                         without impacting the accuracy or timeliness of the AO’s report, and would
                         not be mandatory for judges who wish to continue submitting reports
                         throughout the year.




                                                                6
                                                                      March 14, 2001



    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it reviewed
    the status of several major initiatives and studies undertaken by the
    Administrative Office. The Committee was briefed on the AO’s investigative
    assistance to the courts in resolving allegations against judiciary employees or
    others having business with the courts, and on how the judiciary’s
    administrative oversight mechanisms had been used effectively to identify
    potential irregularities in the courts. The Committee endorsed oversight
    enhancement initiatives, including a handbook for chief judges and programs
    that increase chief judges’ awareness of administrative management and
    internal control issues. The Committee also received a comprehensive
    briefing on the Administrative Office’s human resources initiatives, including
    the success of new benefits programs and efforts to seek legislation that would
    provide the Director of the Administrative Office with independent benefits
    authority; the successful implementation of the new Human Resources
    Management Information System in the Administrative Office, the Federal
    Judicial Center, and the U.S. Sentencing Commission, and plans to expand the
    system to the courts; and implementation of new staffing formulae in the
    courts.


C OMMITTEE ON A UTOMATION AND T ECHNOLOGY

    LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

            Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612 and on recommendation of the Committee
    on Automation and Technology, the Judicial Conference approved the 2001
    update to the Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the Federal
    Judiciary. Funds for the judiciary’s information technology program must be
    spent in accordance with this plan.


    LOCATION OF COURT RECORDS

            Section 457 of title 28, United States Code, requires that the “records
    of district courts and courts of appeals shall be kept at one or more of the
    places where court is held.” However, for electronic records, developments in
    computer and network technology have virtually eliminated physical location


                                           7
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      of the hardware on which such records reside as a factor in accessing those
                      records, and the ability to store information electronically in multiple locations
                      dramatically reduces potential loss from manmade or natural disasters. On
                      recommendation of the Committee on Automation and Technology, the
                      Judicial Conference agreed to seek a legislative change to 28 U.S.C. § 457 to
                      delete any reference to physical location requirements so as to accommodate
                      electronic records and supporting repositories.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Automation and Technology reported that it had
                      received the results of a comprehensive, independent study of the judiciary's
                      national information technology program, which concluded that the judiciary
                      has established a national information technology program using significantly
                      fewer resources than other government organizations. The Committee also
                      discussed Internet and electronic mail traffic and requested further analysis;
                      reviewed progress in an ongoing study of lawbooks and libraries; and received
                      updates on a number of other information technology projects and issues, such
                      as implementation of the new case management/electronic case files system
                      and new technologies for obtaining remote access to the judiciary’s data
                      communications network.


             C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
             OF THE B ANKRUPTCY S YSTEM

                     REAPPOINTMENT OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

                             In March 1997, the Judicial Conference added a chapter to the selection
                     and appointment regulations for bankruptcy judges (chapter 5) to provide for
                     reappointment of incumbent bankruptcy judges without subjecting them to the
                     full application and merit screening process required of candidates for new
                     positions (JCUS-MAR 97, p. 13). Chapter 5 was subsequently amended to
                     address appellate court concerns with certain time frames set forth in those
                     regulations (JCUS-SEP 00, pp. 43-44). At this session, on recommendation of




                                                             8
                                                                  March 14, 2001

the Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System,2 the Judicial
Conference made additional changes to chapter 5 to (a) clarify that a court of
appeals will consider an incumbent bankruptcy judge who seeks reappointment
before considering other qualified candidates; (b) remove a phrase from section
5.01(b) that might appear to create a presumption of reappointment; (c)
empower the chief judge of a court of appeals to extend time periods set forth
in the reappointment regulations, rather than requiring a vote of the active
members of that court; (d) eliminate a requirement in section 5.01(c) that the
court of appeals take an initial vote to determine whether the incumbent
appears to merit reappointment, and provide that the court of appeals proceed
directly to the public comment period; and (e) extend from 30 to 60 days the
time period during which the court of appeals must vote on the reappointment
following receipt of public comment.


PLACE OF HOLDING BANKRUPTCY COURT

        On the recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, and in
accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(1), the Judicial Conference approved the
request of the Western District of Missouri and the Eighth Circuit Judicial
Council to designate Carthage, Missouri, as an additional place of holding
bankruptcy court in the Western District of Missouri, and delete the designation
of Joplin, Missouri.


COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

       The Bankruptcy Committee reported that it addressed several fee issues.
It proposed to the Court Administration and Case Management Committee, for
recommendation to the Conference, an amendment to the Bankruptcy Court
Miscellaneous Fee Schedule to provide that fees for appeals or cross-appeals by
bankruptcy trustees (and debtors in possession in chapter 11 cases) be payable
only from the estate and to the extent that an estate is realized, in order to
encourage trustees to pursue estate assets. The Committee also concurred in
the recommendations of the Committee on Court Administration and Case
Management with regard to the revision and restructuring of electronic public


2
  The Bankruptcy Committee’s original recommendations were revised prior to
the Judicial Conference session in response to concerns raised by the Executive
Committee.


                                       9
Judicial Conference of the United States

                     access fees, and it endorsed other amendments to the Bankruptcy
                     Miscellaneous Fee Schedule (see infra “Miscellaneous Fee Schedules,”
                     pp. 12-15).


             C OMMITTEE ON THE B UDGET

                      TRANSFER OF RETIREMENT FUNDS

                              The Judicial Conference adopted a recommendation of the Budget
                      Committee that the Conference rescind its March 1993 decision to pursue
                      legislation that would allow the judiciary’s contributions to the Civil Service
                      Retirement Fund to be returned to the judiciary when bankruptcy and
                      magistrate judges for whom the benefits are paid elect to transfer out of the
                      Civil Service Retirement System (JCUS-MAR 93, p. 6). The proposal has
                      been rejected by the last four Congresses, and there is little likelihood of its
                      enactment.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Budget reported that it discussed efforts to
                      establish a greater linkage between the annual budget formulation process and
                      the use of the long-range budget estimates. To assist the Committee in these
                      efforts, the Administrative Office will develop long-range budget estimates in
                      the fall of each year rather than in the spring. This change will enable the
                      Budget Committee to review updated estimates at its January meetings and
                      use these estimates in preparing the budget guidance to the program
                      committees for the following spring/summer budget cycles. The Committee
                      also discussed strategies for presenting the 2002 budget request to Congress
                      and the need to emphasize the quality of justice when justifying annual
                      requests for resources.


             C OMMITTEE ON C ODES OF C ONDUCT

                      CODE OF CONDUCT FOR JUDICIAL EMPLOYEES

                              Canon 3F(4) of the Code of Conduct for Judicial Employees requires
                      certain designated employees to keep informed of their own and their close


                                                             10
                                                                   March 14, 2001

relatives’ financial interests in order to avoid conflicts of interest. The
Committee on Codes of Conduct recommended amending Canon 3F(4) to add
a definition of “financial interest” and to clarify that judicial employees have
no duty to inquire about relatives’ fiduciary interests. These amendments
would conform the “duty of inquiry” provisions for judicial employees to the
corresponding provisions applicable to judges under Canon 3C(2) of the Code
of Conduct for United States Judges (see JCUS-SEP 99, p. 52). The
Committee also proposed limiting application of Canon 3F(4) to the
employees specified in Canon 3F(2)(a) (i.e., law clerks and staff attorneys), as
these are the only employees who, like judges, are subject to automatic
disqualification due to financial interest. The Conference approved the
amendments to Canon 3F(4), which read as follows (new language is in
italics; deleted language is struck through):

       (4) A judicial employee who is subject to Canon 3F(2)(a)
       should keep informed about his or her personal, financial and
       fiduciary financial interests and make a reasonable effort to
       keep informed about such the personal financial interests of a
       spouse or minor child residing in the judicial employee’s
       household. For purposes of this canon, “financial interest”
       means ownership of a legal or equitable interest, however
       small, or a relationship as director, advisor, or other active
       participant in the affairs of a party, except that:

               (i) ownership in a mutual or common investment fund
       that holds securities is not a “financial interest” in such
       securities unless the employee participates in the management
       of the fund;

               (ii) an office in an educational, religious, charitable,
       fraternal, or civic organization is not a “financial interest” in
       securities held by the organization;

               (iii) the proprietary interest of a policy holder in a
       mutual insurance company, or a depositor in a mutual savings
       association, or a similar proprietary interest, is a “financial
       interest” in the organization only if the outcome of the
       proceeding could substantially affect the value of the interest;




                                       11
Judicial Conference of the United States

                                       (iv) ownership of government securities is a “financial
                               interest” in the issuer only if the outcome of the proceeding
                               could substantially affect the value of the securities.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              Since its last report in September 2000, the Committee on Codes of
                      Conduct received 25 new written inquiries and issued 26 written advisory
                      responses. During this period, the average response time for requests was 19
                      days. The Chairman received and responded to 23 telephonic inquiries. In
                      addition, individual Committee members responded to 135 inquiries from
                      their colleagues.


             C OMMITTEE ON C OURT A DMINISTRATION
             AND C ASE M ANAGEMENT

                      MISCELLANEOUS FEE SCHEDULES

                              Electronic Public Access. Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1913, 1914,
                      1926(a), 1930(b) and 1932, the Judicial Conference is authorized to prescribe
                      fees to be collected by the appellate and district courts, the Court of Federal
                      Claims, the bankruptcy courts, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
                      Litigation, respectively. While the various fees included in these
                      miscellaneous fee schedules are often court-specific, the fees pertaining to
                      electronic public access (EPA) to court information cut across fee schedule
                      lines. The Judicial Conference approved a Court Administration and Case
                      Management Committee recommendation that EPA fees be removed from the
                      various courts’ fee schedules and reissued in an independent miscellaneous
                      EPA fee schedule that would apply to all court types.

                              The Committee also recommended three substantive amendments to
                      the EPA fee schedule. The first amendment concerned the user fee for
                      Internet access to the judiciary’s new case management/electronic case files
                      (CM/ECF) system. Pursuant to section 404 of Public Law No. 101-515,
                      which directs the Judicial Conference to prescribe reasonable fees for public
                      access to information available in electronic form, the judiciary established a
                      seven cents per page fee for Internet access to electronic court records that will
                      apply to CM/ECF when it is introduced (JCUS-SEP 98, p. 64). In response to


                                                              12
                                                                  March 14, 2001

concerns about the effect of these fees on open access to court records,
especially with regard to litigants, the Committee recommended that the
schedule be amended to state that attorneys of record and parties in a case
(including pro se litigants) receive one free electronic copy of all filed
documents, if receipt is required by law or directed by the filer, which could
then be printed and saved to the recipient’s own computer or network. The
Committee further recommended that no fee under this provision be owed
until an individual account holder accrued charges of more than $10 in a
calendar year. This would allow free access to over 140 electronic pages,
providing a basic level of public access consistent with the services
historically provided by the courts. After discussion, the Conference adopted
the Committee’s recommendations.

        The Committee’s second proposal was for the establishment of a new
fee of 10 cents per page for printing paper copies of documents through public
access terminals at clerks’ offices. This proposed fee, set at a level
commensurate with the costs of providing existing services and developing
enhanced services, is less than the 50 cents per page fee currently being
charged for retrieving and copying court records and would therefore
encourage the use of public access terminals and reduce demands on clerks’
offices. The Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.

        Lastly, the Committee recommended, and the Conference approved,
the establishment of a Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER)
Service Center search fee of $20. The PACER Service Center provides
registration, billing, and technical support for the judiciary’s EPA systems and
receives numerous requests daily for particular docket sheets from individuals
who do not have PACER accounts. This fee would be consistent with the fees
currently imposed “for every search of the records of the court, and for
certifying the results thereof” in the other fee schedules.

        Reproduction of Recordings. The miscellaneous fee schedules for the
appellate, district, and bankruptcy courts include a provision requiring that a
fee be charged for “reproduction of magnetic tape recordings, either cassette
or reel-to-reel...including the cost of materials.” The Committee
recommended that this fee be modified to account for the expanded variety of
media technologies, including the use of digital equipment, rather than
magnetic tape recordings. In addition, the Committee recommended that the
current exemption from the fee for the federal government be eliminated when
the requested record is available through the judiciary’s CM/ECF system.
Approving the Committee’s recommendations, the Conference amended


                                      13
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      Item 5 of the appellate and district court miscellaneous fee schedules and Item
                      3 of the bankruptcy court miscellaneous fee schedule relating to the
                      reproduction of recordings to read as follows:

                               For reproduction of recordings of proceedings, regardless of the
                               medium, $20, including the cost of materials. This fee shall
                               apply to services rendered on behalf of the United States, if the
                               reproduction of the recording is available electronically.

                      The Conference also agreed to amend the preambles to the appellate, district,
                      and bankruptcy court miscellaneous fee schedules to eliminate the exemption
                      for federal agencies from the fee for reproduction of recordings.

                              Local Rules. The Conference adopted a Committee recommendation
                      to amend provisions in the appellate, district, and bankruptcy court and Court
                      of Federal Claims miscellaneous fee schedules (Item 11, Item 12, Item 18, and
                      Item 6, respectively) to reflect that local rules may be provided by means other
                      than printing a paper copy, such as electronically via the Internet. The
                      provisions were amended as follows (new language is in italics; deleted
                      language is struck through):

                               The court may charge and collect fees, commensurate with the
                               cost of printing, for copies of the local rules of court
                               commensurate with the cost of providing such copies. The
                               court may also distribute copies of the local rules without
                               charge.

                              Amendments in Bankruptcy Cases. On recommendation of the
                      Committee, the Conference amended Item 4 of the Bankruptcy Court
                      Miscellaneous Fee Schedule, which prescribes a fee of $20 for each
                      amendment to a debtor’s schedules of creditors or lists of creditors, to make
                      clear that amendments to the matrices or to the mailing lists of creditors,
                      which are often used by clerks’ offices to notify creditors and other parties of
                      actions relating to the bankruptcy case, would also generate the $20 fee. This
                      provides an incentive to debtors to make certain that matrices and mailing lists
                      are accurate when filed.

                             Miscellaneous Documents. Both the district and the bankruptcy court
                      miscellaneous fee schedules impose a fee for filing or indexing a
                      miscellaneous document not in a case or proceeding for which a filing fee has
                      been paid, except that the district court provision sets forth four specific


                                                              14
                                                                   March 14, 2001

instances in which the fee is applicable while the bankruptcy court provision is
more general. For consistency, the Judicial Conference, on recommendation
of the Committee, amended both Item 1 of the District Court Miscellaneous
Fee Schedule and Item 7 of the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule
to read as follows:

       For filing or indexing any document not in a case or proceeding
       for which a filing fee has been paid, $30.


CIVIL LITIGATION MANAGEMENT MANUAL

        On recommendation of the Committee and as required by the Civil
Justice Reform Act of 1990 (CJRA) (see 28 U.S.C. § 479(c)(1)), the Judicial
Conference approved for publication a civil litigation management manual
that describes those litigation management and cost and delay reduction
principles, techniques, and programs deemed most effective by the Judicial
Conference and the Directors of the Administrative Office and the Federal
Judicial Center.


JUROR QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAIRE

        In September 2000, the Judicial Conference revised the juror
qualification questionnaire to conform the categories on race and ethnicity to
those used by the Census Bureau for the 2000 census (JCUS-SEP 00, pp. 47-
48). The Census Bureau and other executive branch agencies have since
revised the terminology used to describe some of those categories.
Specifically, the term “Black” has been changed to “Black or African
American”; the term “Hispanic” has been changed to “Hispanic or Latino”;
and the term “Native American Indian” has been changed to “American Indian
or Alaska Native.” So that the juror qualification questionnaire terminology
will continue to mirror that used by the Census Bureau, the Conference
approved a Committee recommendation that Question 10 of the juror
qualification questionnaire be revised to incorporate these changes.


SOCIAL SECURITY REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

         Social security appeals are included in the Civil Justice Reform Act
statistical reports in the same way as motions in civil cases, but with a pending


                                       15
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      date from which the six-month clock begins to run set at 120 days after the
                      filing of the transcript in the case (JCUS-SEP 98, p. 63; JCUS-SEP 99, p. 58).
                      A small number of courts have adopted procedures that have the effect of
                      delaying by up to two months the date from which the clock begins to run by
                      allowing the transcript to be filed with the court when the Commissioner of
                      Social Security files the responsive brief, rather than when the transcript is
                      served on the claimant. These procedures are similar to the “holding”
                      procedures for civil motions discussed by the Conference in September 1999
                      (JCUS-SEP 99, pp. 57-58), in that they raise concerns about the uniformity of
                      the reporting requirements and about compliance with Rule 5(d) of the Federal
                      Rules of Civil Procedure (which requires all papers served upon a party to be
                      filed with the court “within a reasonable time after service”). On
                      recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to amend the
                      instructions for the CJRA report on social security appeals pending over six
                      months, as published in the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, to
                      define the “pending date” for such appeals to be reported as 120 days after the
                      filing of the transcript in the case, or in cases where the transcript is served
                      upon a party before it is filed with the court, then 120 days after the initial
                      service of the transcript. The Conference further agreed to request that each
                      circuit council review local rules with “holding” procedures for social security
                      cases to ensure compliance with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 5(d).


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                      reported on a number of issues relating to electronic case filing, including the
                      Committee’s extensive work on a judiciary-wide privacy policy for
                      consideration by the Conference, and its evaluation of existing local court
                      rules and practices pertaining to electronic filing. In other areas, the
                      Committee provided its views on courtroom sharing for magistrate and
                      bankruptcy judges to the Committee on Security and Facilities; considered the
                      development of processes for identifying and assisting “high workload
                      courts,” as recommended by the Judicial Officers Resources Working Group;
                      and began consideration of the issue of the changing nature of litigation in the
                      district courts.




                                                         16
                                                                      March 14, 2001


C OMMITTEE ON C RIMINAL L AW

    RISK PREDICTION INDEX

             In March 1997, the Judicial Conference approved the use of the Risk
    Prediction Index (RPI) by probation officers to assist in the assessment of the
    risk of recidivism posed by offenders being supervised on terms of probation
    and supervised release (JCUS-MAR 97, p. 21). Studies conducted by the
    Federal Judicial Center, at the request of the Criminal Law Committee,
    demonstrate that the RPI can also be useful in identifying those individuals
    released to pretrial services supervision who are likely to succeed and those
    who are likely to have their release status revoked. Accordingly, the
    Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, the use of
    the Risk Prediction Index by pretrial services officers (and probation officers
    in combined districts) to assist in the assessment of risk posed by defendants
    under pretrial services supervision.


    JUDGMENTS IN A CRIMINAL CASE

            On the Committee’s recommendation and after discussion, the
    Conference approved revised forms for judgments in a criminal case (AO
    245B-AO 245I) for publication and distribution to the courts. The judgment
    forms were revised to include express language indicating adjudication of
    guilt. In addition, in order to protect the identity of cooperating defendants,
    the portion of the forms entitled “Statement of Reasons,” which includes
    sensitive information about whether a defendant’s substantial assistance
    served as the basis for a sentence departure, was revised to become an
    attachment to the judgment forms, and will not be disclosed to the public.
    However, the complete judgment form, including the Statement of Reasons,
    will continue to be forwarded to appropriate entities, such as the United States
    Sentencing Commission, the Federal Bureau of Prisons, defense counsel,
    government attorneys, and the appellate courts.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Criminal Law reported on the status of a strategic
    assessment of the probation and pretrial services system and on the activities
    of an ad hoc work group that is reviewing and revising the pretrial services


                                           17
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      and post-conviction supervision monographs. The Committee also reviewed
                      a report on an independent study of the federal judiciary’s home confinement
                      program, which will be published and disseminated to the courts later this
                      year.


             C OMMITTEE ON D EFENDER S ERVICES

                      COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATION
                      GRANT AND CONDITIONS AGREEMENT

                              On recommendation of the Defender Services Committee, the Judicial
                      Conference approved revisions to clause 8 of the grant and conditions
                      agreement to prohibit community defender organizations (CDOs) from using
                      Criminal Justice Act (CJA) grant funds to contract locally for audit services
                      that would duplicate the AO’s national contract audit. The revisions would
                      also require prior approval of the AO’s Defender Services Division before a
                      CDO may use grant funds to engage an expert to respond to findings of a
                      national contract audit. The fourth paragraph of clause 8 was amended to read
                      as follows (new language is in italics):

                               The grantee may contract with local accountants or with the
                               Auditor, for any accounting and financial services necessary for
                               the operation of its office, including, but not limited to, the
                               preparation of all required federal and state tax returns and any
                               additional annual audit reports required by the Board of
                               Directors that do not duplicate the national contract audit.
                               Notwithstanding the foregoing, a grantee may use grant funds
                               to contract with an expert for the purpose of responding to a
                               finding of the Auditor in the annual audit when authorized in
                               advance to do so by the Defender Services Division.


                      REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION FOR
                      EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES

                              Section 3102 of title 5, United States Code, as recently amended by
                      section 311 of Public Law No. 106-518, the Federal Courts Improvement Act
                      of 2000, authorizes the head of each agency in the judicial branch to provide
                      personal assistants for disabled judges or employees, as determined necessary


                                                              18
                                                                 March 14, 2001

by the agency head. In order to implement this legislation with respect to
federal defender organizations, the Committee on Defender Services
recommended that the Judicial Conference take the following actions:

a.     Designate federal public defenders as “agency heads” for purposes of
       appointing personal assistants for individuals with disabilities in
       federal public defender organizations;

b.     Provide executive directors of community defender organizations with
       the same authority as federal public defenders with respect to
       individuals with disabilities in those organizations; and

c.     Authorize the Administrative Office to develop guidelines for federal
       public defenders and executive directors of community defender
       organizations to use in determining when and in what circumstances
       the creation of a personal assistant position is appropriate.

The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations. See also infra,
“Reasonable Accommodation for Employees with Disabilities,” pp. 25-26.


PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE

        The judiciary’s fiscal year 1999 appropriations act (Public Law No.
105-277), as amended by Public Law No. 106-58, requires the judiciary to
reimburse judges and certain judicial employees for up to half the cost of
professional liability insurance. The guidelines adopted by the Judicial
Conference to implement this program for federal public defender
organization (FPDO) employees (JCUS-SEP 99, pp. 61-62; JCUS-MAR 00, p.
7), placed a $150 cap on the amount of reimbursement an eligible individual
was entitled to receive. Due to an increase in premiums, the Committee on
Defender Services recommended that the guidelines for FPDO employees be
amended to lift the $150 cap and permit reimbursement of up to one-half the
cost of the policy, regardless of the dollar amount. The Judicial Conference
approved the recommendation. See also infra “Professional Liability
Insurance,” p. 26.




                                      19
Judicial Conference of the United States




                      AMICUS CURIAE POLICY FOR FEDERAL DEFENDERS

                              On recommendation of the Committee on Defender Services, the
                      Judicial Conference approved the addition of a new paragraph to Chapter IV
                      (“Defender Organizations”) of the Guidelines for the Administration of the
                      Criminal Justice Act and Related Statutes (CJA Guidelines), which sets forth
                      the circumstances in which federal defenders may participate as amicus curiae
                      in CJA cases. The new section formalizes a longstanding practice of
                      permitting federal defenders to participate as amicus curiae when requested to
                      do so by an appellate court, and in death penalty habeas corpus cases. The
                      section further authorizes federal defenders to participate as amicus curiae in
                      cases where, in the defender’s judgment, a legal issue affects the case of a
                      client whom the defender represents, i.e., “on behalf of a client as an ancillary
                      matter appropriate to the proceedings.” See 18 U.S.C. § 3006A(c). The new
                      paragraph reads as follows:

                               4.06 Participation as Amicus Curiae. Pursuant to governing
                               court rules, Federal Public Defenders and Community
                               Defenders may participate as amicus curiae in federal court at
                               the invitation of the court, in death penalty habeas corpus
                               cases, or on behalf of a client as an ancillary matter appropriate
                               to the proceedings.


                      USE OF CJA RESOURCES

                              In an effort to provide specific guidance on the use of CJA resources
                      by panel attorneys for automation-related needs involving unusual or
                      extraordinary expenses, the Defender Services Committee recommended, and
                      the Conference approved, a revision to paragraph 3.16 of the CJA Guidelines.
                      The revision requires, among other things, that panel attorneys consult with
                      the Defender Services Division prior to requesting court authorization to use
                      CJA funds to acquire computer hardware or software costing more than $300,
                      or to obtain computer systems and automation litigation support personnel and
                      experts whose services are expected to have a combined cost exceeding
                      $10,000, and that any computer hardware or software acquired with CJA
                      funds remains the property of the United States. The Conference also
                      approved a model order, to be included in Appendix C (“Advance



                                                               20
                                                                      March 14, 2001

    Authorization”) of the CJA Guidelines, for authorizing the acquisition of
    computer hardware and/or software in conformance with the revised
    guideline.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

           Under its delegated authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-
    MAR 89, pp. 16-17), the Committee on Defender Services approved fiscal
    year 2001 budgets for 56 federal public defender organizations totaling
    $210,417,000, and for 15 community defender organizations in the total
    amount of $57,960,400.

             The Committee on Defender Services reported that it met with the
    Chairman of the Budget Committee to discuss budgetary matters, with
    particular attention to the judiciary’s request for FY 2002 funding for a $113
    hourly panel attorney rate, as approved by the Conference in September 2000
    (JCUS-SEP 00, pp. 44-45; 50). The Committee continued its strategic
    planning effort by examining fundamental aspects of the Defender Services
    program from a broad-based perspective.


C OMMITTEE ON F EDERAL -S TATE J URISDICTION

    RESIDENT ALIEN PROVISO

            The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction identified a need to
    amend the "resident alien proviso" in section 1332(a) of title 28, United States
    Code, to clarify the scope of diversity of citizenship jurisdiction in disputes
    involving aliens admitted to the United States as permanent residents.
    Congress added this proviso to the section in 1988 to "deem" an alien
    admitted for permanent residence as a citizen of the state in which the alien is
    domiciled with the specific purpose of denying federal jurisdiction in suits
    between a citizen of a state and an alien permanently residing in the same
    state. However, the proviso's deeming language has been interpreted as
    applying to other litigation circumstances involving aliens. For example,
    under section 1332(a)(2), a non-resident alien has been permitted to sue a
    United States citizen and a resident alien by deeming the resident alien to be a
    citizen of the state of his domicile. Such application of the proviso has
    broadened the scope of diversity jurisdiction beyond that contemplated when
    the statute was enacted. Thus, upon recommendation from the Committee on


                                           21
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      Federal-State Jurisdiction, the Judicial Conference agreed to propose
                      legislation to resolve conflicting interpretations of the resident alien proviso in
                      28 U.S.C. § 1332(a) by deleting that proviso and substituting therefor text
                      providing that the district courts shall not have diversity of citizenship
                      jurisdiction under subsections 1332(a)(2)-(3) where the matter in controversy
                      is between a citizen of a state and a citizen or subject of a foreign state
                      admitted to the United States for permanent residence and domiciled in the
                      same state.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported on its
                      continuing assessment of legislative proposals that would, among other things,
                      permit individuals in federal and state custody to request post-conviction DNA
                      testing and provide a system for ensuring competent counsel in the states for
                      indigent defendants in capital cases. The Committee also informed the
                      Conference of its consideration of mass torts/class action issues, attorney
                      conduct rules in the federal courts, the Committee’s project to ascertain
                      amendments for jurisdictional improvements, and the Federal Judicial Code
                      Revision Project of the American Law Institute.


             C OMMITTEE ON F INANCIAL D ISCLOSURE

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of
                      December 31, 2000, the Committee had received 3,521 financial disclosure
                      reports and certifications for the calendar year 1999, including 1,285 reports
                      and certifications from Supreme Court Justices, Article III judges, and judicial
                      officers of special courts; 365 from bankruptcy judges; 509 from magistrate
                      judges; and 1,362 from judicial employees.




                                                              22
                                                                       March 14, 2001


C OMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT A SSIGNMENTS

     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the
     period from July 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000, a total of 89 intercircuit
     assignments, undertaken by 70 Article III judges, were processed and
     recommended by the Committee and approved by the Chief Justice. During
     calendar year 2000, a total of 190 intercircuit assignments were processed and
     approved. In addition, the Committee aided courts requesting assistance by
     both identifying and obtaining judges willing to take assignments.


C OMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL J UDICIAL R ELATIONS

     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
     involvement in rule-of-law and judicial reform activities relating to Africa,
     Asia, Europe, and Latin America, including United States Agency for
     International Development-funded programs to build upon the already-
     established partnership between the Russian and U.S. judiciaries, and a
     presentation to the European Court of Human Rights on appellate court
     structure, case management, and rules. The Committee is also working with
     the Library of Congress' Russian Leadership Program, which brings
     policymakers and leaders from the Russian Federation to communities
     throughout the United States, in developing a rule-of-law component that will
     provide Russian judges an opportunity to obtain an appreciation for the United
     States judicial system and the role of judges in American society.


C OMMITTEE ON THE J UDICIAL B RANCH

     JUDICIAL COMPENSATION

             The value of federal judges’ salaries continues to decline due to the
     combination of the denial of many annual Employment Cost Index (ECI)
     adjustments and inflation. At the same time, the salaries of private sector
     lawyers and law school deans have skyrocketed. This pay erosion and pay
     disparity have a negative effect on judges’ morale, recruitment, and retention


                                           23
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      and represent a real threat to Article III’s guarantees of judicial independence,
                      lifetime tenure, and undiminished compensation. Accordingly, the Judicial
                      Conference modified slightly and then unanimously approved a Judicial
                      Branch Committee recommendation that the Conference pursue vigorously—

                      a.       An Employment Cost Index adjustment for federal judges, Members of
                               Congress, and top officials in the executive branch for 2002 and
                               subsequent years, as provided by law;

                      b.       Legislation to give judges and other high level federal officials a
                               “catch-up” pay adjustment of 9.6 percent to recapture Employment
                               Cost Index adjustments previously foregone; and

                      c.       Appointment of a presidential commission to consider and make
                               recommendations to the President on appropriate salaries for high-
                               level officials in all three branches of government.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it has continued to
                      devote its attention to securing salary relief for all federal judicial officers.
                      The Committee received an update on developments in the judiciary’s benefits
                      program and on the status of two cases raising issues concerning taxation of
                      judicial compensation.


             C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL R ESOURCES

                      BIENNIAL SURVEY OF JUDGESHIP NEEDS

                               As part of the Biennial Survey of Judgeship Needs, workloads in
                      district and appellate courts with low weighted caseloads are reviewed for the
                      purpose of determining whether to recommend that an existing or future
                      judgeship vacancy not be filled. Through this process, in March 1999, the
                      Judicial Conference recommended to the President and the Senate that an
                      existing or future judgeship vacancy not be filled in the District Courts for the
                      District of Columbia, the District of Delaware, the Southern District of West
                      Virginia, and the District of Wyoming (JCUS-MAR 99, pp. 22-23). After
                      conducting the 2001 judgeship needs survey, the Committee on Judicial
                      Resources determined that either the caseload or the courts’ resources in the


                                                             24
                                                                  March 14, 2001

District of Delaware and the Southern District of West Virginia had changed
sufficiently to support a recommendation that any future vacancy in those
courts be filled. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
Conference voted to amend its March 1999 position to delete the District of
Delaware and the Southern District of West Virginia from the list of courts in
which a vacancy should not be filled.


REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION FOR
EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES

        As previously noted with respect to federal defender offices (see supra
“Reasonable Accommodation for Employees with Disabilities,” pp. 18-19),
the Federal Courts Improvement Act of 2000 gives the judiciary the authority
to use appropriated funds to hire personal assistants for judges and employees
with disabilities. Under this legislation, which amends 5 U.S.C. § 3102, the
head of each agency in the judicial branch may provide for personal assistants
that the agency head determines are necessary to enable a disabled judge or
employee to perform his or her official duties. On recommendation of the
Committee on Judicial Resources, the Judicial Conference took the following
actions to implement this new law with respect to judicial officers and court
employees:

a.     Approved creation of a personal assistant position under the Judiciary
       Salary Plan and the Court Personnel System to provide appropriate
       work assistance, as needed, to judges and judiciary employees with
       disabilities;

b.     Endorsed the Administrative Office’s use of classification flexibility
       currently existing under the Judiciary Salary Plan to classify personal
       assistant positions appropriately;

c.     Designated each chief judge, or the chief judge’s designee, as the
       “agency head” for judges and chambers staff, and each court unit
       executive as the “agency head” for employees of that unit, for purposes
       of appointing personal assistants for individuals with disabilities;

d.     Authorized use of central funding for personal assistant positions, as
       necessary, under the Judiciary Salary Plan for support of eligible
       judges and chambers staff;



                                      25
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      e.       Authorized provision of an allotment to a court after receipt of a
                               request for a personal assistant position under the Court Personnel
                               System and an Administrative Office determination that AO guidelines
                               were met; and

                      f.       Authorized the Administrative Office to develop guidelines for
                               designated agency heads to use in determining when and in what
                               circumstances the creation of a personal assistant position is
                               appropriate.


                      PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE

                              Guidelines adopted by the Judicial Conference to implement, in
                      accordance with Public Law No. 105-277, as amended by Public Law No.
                      106-58, a professional liability insurance reimbursement program for court
                      staff (JCUS-SEP 99, pp. 66-67; JCUS-MAR 00, p. 7) placed a $150 cap on
                      the amount of reimbursement an eligible individual is entitled to receive. In
                      the face of increased cost of premiums for such insurance, the Conference, on
                      recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources, agreed to amend
                      those guidelines to remove the $150 cap, retroactive to October 1, 1999 (see
                      also supra, “Professional Liability Insurance,” p. 19).

                      _________________________
                      RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION BONUSES

                              In March 1999, the Judicial Conference authorized the use of
                      recruitment and retention bonuses for automation positions in the courts on a
                      two-year pilot basis (JCUS-MAR 99, p. 27). Based on findings that the
                      program fulfills a genuine need in the courts and is being used judiciously, the
                      Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference agreed, that the
                      program be made permanent.


                      LAW CLERK STUDENT LOANS

                              In September 1988, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek an
                      amendment to 20 U.S.C. § 1077(a)(2)(C) to include full-time judicial law
                      clerks among those occupations entitled to defer repayment, during service, of
                      the principal on federally insured educational loans (JCUS-SEP 88, p. 90). At
                      this session, on recommendation of the Committee, the Conference slightly


                                                             26
                                                                        March 14, 2001

    modified its September 1988 position. It determined to seek legislation
    deferring interest as well as principal on such loans during the clerkship, for a
    period not to exceed three years of service.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it had asked the
    Administrative Office to conduct a comprehensive study, including a survey
    of Article III, bankruptcy, and magistrate judges, to determine if they are
    having difficulty recruiting and retaining highly qualified individuals to serve
    as law clerks, and, if so, to propose monetary and non-monetary solutions.
    The Committee also decided to ask the Administrative Office to undertake a
    comprehensive review of the Temporary Emergency Fund (TEF). The review
    will address such issues as whether there should be criteria for the allocation
    of law clerk and secretary positions to judges who need them and how to
    collect sufficient information regarding the use of the TEF. The Committee
    will coordinate this project with other Judicial Conference committees, as
    appropriate.


C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
OF THE M AGISTRATE J UDGES S YSTEM

    REIMBURSEMENT REGULATIONS

            Regulations for the reimbursement of expenses incurred by part-time
    magistrate judges, adopted pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 635(b), allow a part-time
    magistrate judge to claim reimbursement for salary expenses actually incurred
    for secretarial or clerical assistance rendered in connection with official
    magistrate judge duties, but do not make reference to reimbursement of
    support staff expenses for holidays, vacation leave, or sick leave. Noting that
    certain part-time magistrate judges at the higher salary levels require full-time
    or extensive staff support, the Committee on the Administration of the
    Magistrate Judges System recommended, and the Judicial Conference
    approved, amendments to the regulations to authorize reimbursement for
    holidays and annual and sick leave taken by judges’ support staff, not to
    exceed federal employee entitlements. The revised regulations do not require
    reimbursement for holidays and leave, but only set upper limits for




                                           27
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      reimbursement for those part-time magistrate judges who choose to claim
                      reimbursement for such expenses.


                      CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                              After consideration of the report of the Committee and the
                      recommendations of the Director of the Administrative Office, the district
                      courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference
                      approved the following changes in positions, salaries, locations, and
                      arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes
                      with a budgetary impact are to be effective when appropriated funds are
                      available.

                      THIRD CIRCUIT

                      District of New Jersey

                      1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                               Newark; and

                      2.       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                               the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      FOURTH CIRCUIT

                      Middle District of North Carolina

                               Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      Western District of Virginia

                               Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      Northern District of West Virginia

                      1.       Redesignated the full-time magistrate judge position at Elkins as
                               Clarksburg or Elkins;




                                                             28
                                                                  March 14, 2001

2.     Redesignated the part-time magistrate judge position at Clarksburg as
       Martinsburg upon the appointment of a full-time magistrate judge at
       Clarksburg or Elkins; and

3.     Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or
       arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

Southern District of West Virginia

       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

FIFTH CIRCUIT

Western District of Louisiana

       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
       Monroe from Level 4 ($33,633 per annum) to Level 3 ($44,844 per
       annum).

SIXTH CIRCUIT

Western District of Michigan

       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

Southern District of Ohio

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Dayton;
       and

2.     Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

Eastern District of Tennessee

       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.




                                      29
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      Western District of Tennessee

                               Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      EIGHTH CIRCUIT

                      Western District of Missouri

                               Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      TENTH CIRCUIT

                      District of Wyoming

                               Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                               Casper from Level 7 ($5,605 per annum) to Level 6 ($11,211 per
                               annum).

                      ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

                      Northern District of Georgia

                      1.       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Rome to full-time
                               status;

                      2.       Authorized one additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                               Atlanta; and

                      3.       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges
                      System reported that it discussed at length the issue of the growth of the
                      magistrate judges system. The Committee concluded that it is appropriate for
                      it to continue to consider requests from courts for additional magistrate judge
                      positions and to recommend approval of those requests that meet the criteria


                                                              30
                                                                       March 14, 2001

    established by the Judicial Conference, as it has to date, and that it will
    continue to monitor the growth of the magistrate judges system carefully. The
    Committee forwarded background materials and a statement of the issues on
    this topic to the Executive Committee (see supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,”
    p. 5).


C OMMITTEE TO R EVIEW C IRCUIT
C OUNCIL C ONDUCT AND D ISABILITY O RDERS

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability
    Orders reported that it has distributed to the courts a pamphlet containing the
    current version of the Illustrative Rules Governing Complaints of Judicial
    Misconduct and Disability and related materials that may be useful to judges
    and court staff in implementing the complaint procedure established by
    28 U.S.C. § 372(c).


C OMMITTEE ON R ULES OF P RACTICE AND P ROCEDURE

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
    approved for immediate publication proposed amendments to Rule C of the
    Supplemental Rules for Certain Admiralty and Maritime Claims to conform
    with recent legislation. The Committee's Subcommittee on Technology is
    working with the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
    studying privacy issues that arise from electronic case filing and developing
    guidance for courts to implement an electronic case filing system. The
    Advisory Committees on Appellate, Bankruptcy, Civil, and Criminal Rules
    are reviewing comments from the public submitted on amendments proposed
    to their respective sets of rules, including most significantly a proposed
    comprehensive style revision of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.




                                           31
Judicial Conference of the United States


             C OMMITTEE ON S ECURITY AND F ACILITIES

                     CONSTRUCTION SUBMISSION PROCESS/
                     FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

                             For the last four fiscal years, the Office of Management and Budget has
                     either eliminated or substantially reduced funding for courthouse construction
                     projects in the General Services Administration portion of the President’s
                     budget requests. The Committee on Security and Facilities recommended that
                     the Judicial Conference approve a formal courthouse construction submission
                     process that presents the current budget-year housing requirements approved by
                     the circuit judicial councils and the Judicial Conference in the Five-Year
                     Courthouse Project Plan, for transmission to executive branch officials, the
                     leadership of the House and Senate, the relevant appropriations and authorizing
                     committee chairmen, and others deemed appropriate. The submission would
                     not be a budget request, but a formal narrative statement of the judiciary’s
                     housing requirements to educate key legislative and executive branch decision
                     makers about these requirements. The Judicial Conference approved the
                     Committee’s recommendation by mail ballot concluded on January 30, 2001.

                             At the same time, the Judicial Conference, after taking into
                     consideration the comments of the circuit judicial councils, approved the Five-
                     Year Courthouse Project Plan for fiscal years 2002-2006 on an expedited basis,
                     so that it could be used to prepare the courthouse construction submission. The
                     Conference also approved by mail ballot a related recommendation that it
                     recognize the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals’ critical need for additional
                     office space to house court staff in Atlanta, Georgia. (This latter proposal is
                     not included in the Five-Year Plan because the intended building would
                     accommodate court staff rather than judges.)


                     RELEASE OF SPACE

                             Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 462(f), and on recommendation of the
                     Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the release of space and closure
                     of the non-resident facilities in Ada in the Eastern District of Oklahoma, and in
                     Enid in the Western District of Oklahoma.




                                                            32
                                                                  March 14, 2001



ERGONOMICS IN THE JUDICIAL WORKPLACE

        Ergonomics is the applied science of workplace equipment design
intended to maximize productivity by reducing employee fatigue and
discomfort. In order to prevent work-related musculosketal injuries and
minimize financial liability for the judiciary, the Committee on Security and
Facilities, with the encouragement of the Committee on Judicial Resources,
recommended that the Judicial Conference endorse the concept of ergonomics
in the judicial workplace and authorize the provision of information on
ergonomic assessments and the acquisition of ergonomic furniture, as local
funding permits, to assist courts when addressing ergonomic issues. The
Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


BANKRUPTCY JURY BOXES

        The Committee on Security and Facilities recommended to the March
2000 Judicial Conference that the U. S. Courts Design Guide be amended to
state that an eight-person jury box should be provided “when determined
necessary,” in order to clarify that jury boxes in bankruptcy courtrooms are not
required in every new courthouse. At that session, the Conference voted to
recommit the recommendation to the Committee so that it might obtain the
views of the Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System,
provided that while the matter was under reconsideration, a moratorium would
be imposed on the design or construction of jury boxes in new or existing
bankruptcy courtrooms (JCUS-MAR 00, p. 28). The Bankruptcy Committee
considered the issue and concurred in the view that bankruptcy courtrooms do
not normally require a jury box unless there is a demonstrated need. The
Judicial Conference approved the Security and Facilities Committee
recommendations that the Design Guide be amended to clarify that jury boxes
in bankruptcy courtrooms are not required in every new courthouse and that the
March 2000 moratorium on design and construction of jury boxes in new or
existing bankruptcy courtrooms be lifted.


COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

       The Committee on Security and Facilities reported that, with the strong
concurrence of the Judicial Branch Committee, it had rejected an Ernst &
Young facilities study recommendation that senior judges have access to a


                                      33
Judicial Conference of the United States

                     dedicated courtroom only for the first two years of senior status and share
                     courtrooms thereafter, in favor of the existing Judicial Conference planning
                     assumption that permits a dedicated courtroom for a senior judge for ten years
                     after taking senior status. The Committee endorsed a proposal that requires
                     court security officer (CSO) contractors to designate physicians to conduct
                     physical examinations of CSOs and directed the U.S. Marshals Service to
                     implement CSO medical standards endorsed by the Committee in June 2000.


             F UNDING
                              All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                      funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                      the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                      establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                  Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                  Presiding




                                                            34
                                                              March 14, 2001

INDEX

Administrative Office, Committee on the, 5, 6-7

Administrative Office o( the U. S. Coum
     budget formulation proce$s, 10
     changes in magistrate judge positions, 28
     Civil Litigation Management Manual, 15
     community defender organization audits, 18
     disabled employees, personal assistants, 18-19,25-26
     law clerk recruitment and retention survey, 27
     reports required by law, 5
     Temporary Emergency Fund (TEF), 27
     wiretap reports, 6

Amicus curiae
      policy for federal defenders, 20

Appropriations
     budget formulation process, 10
      courthouse construction, 32
     Criminal Justice Act panel attorney compensation, 21
     defender organization funding, 21

Automation (see information teclmology)

Automation and Technology, Committee on, 6, 7-8

Bankruptcy judges (see judges, bankruptcy)

Bankruptcy system (see also judges, bankruptcy)
      fees, electronic public access
              access to court files, 12-13
              PACER Service Center search, 13
              paper copies, public access terminals, 13
      fees, miscellaneous
              amendments to matrices/lists of creditors, 14
              appeals by bankruptcy trustees, 9
              copies oflocal rules, 14
              electronic public access, 9-10, 12-13
Judicial Conference ofthe United States

Bankruptcy system (continued)
            · filing miscellaneous documents, 14•15
              reproduction of recordings, 13-14
      jury boxes, 33
      place of holding court, 9
      reappointment regulations, 8-9

Bankruptcy System, Committee on the Administration               j
ofthe, 8-10,33                                                   :!


Benefits
       independent bem:fits authority, 7
       law clerks, student loan deferral, 26-27
       professional liability insurance, 19, 26

Bonuses, recruitment and retention, 26

Budget (see appropriations)

Budget, Committee on the, 10, 21

Case management ·
      case management/electronic case files systems, 12-13, 13
      Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990, 15
      Civil Litigation Management Manual, 15
      social security appeals, 15-16

Case Management/Electronic Case Files (CIVI./ECF), l2-13, 13

Census Bureau, 15

Chief judges (see judges, chief)

Circuit councils (see circuit judicial councils)

Circuit judges (see judges, circuit)




                                             ii
                                                           March 14, 2001
Circuit judicial councils
       changes in magistrate judge positions, 28
       courth"6tise construction projects, 32
       Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 32
       place of holding bankruptcy court, 9
       social security cases, local rules, 16

Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990 (CJRA)
        Civil Litigation Management Manual, 15
        social security appeals reporting, 15-16
        statistical reporting, 15-16

Civil Litigation Management Manual, 15

Civil rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Civil Service Retirement System, 10

CM/ECF (see Case Management/Electronic Case Files)

Code of Conduct for Judicial Employees, 10-12

Code of Conduct for United States Judges, 11

Codes of Conduct, Committee on, 10-12

Collings, Robert B., 4

Commissioner of Social Security, 16

Community defender organizations (see defender services)

Compensation
     Criminal Justice Act panel attorneys, 21
     judicial, 23-24
     recruitment and retention bonuses, 26

Conduct and Disability Orders, Committee to Review
Circuit Council, 31




                                             iii
Judicial Conference of the United States


Congress
        courthouse construction projects, 32
        courthouse construction submission process, 32
        diversity jurisdiction, 21-22
        Employment Cost Index (ECI) pay adjustment, 23-24
        federal courts improvement bHI, 4-5
        judgeships, Article III, 24-25
        judicial compensation, ?3-24
        Judicial Conference Foundation, 5
        law clerk student loan deferrals, 26-27
        presidential commission on salaries, 24
        resident alien proviso, 21-22
        retirement funds, judiciary contribution, 10
        wiretap reports, 6

Court administration
                                                                       ll
         case management/electronic case files systems, 12-13, 13
         Civil Justice Reform Act reporting requirements, 15-16        I
                                                                       I

         Civil Litigation Management Manual, 15                        I
         court records
                 access to electronic, 12-14
                 location, 7-8                                         I
                 PACER Service Ce11ter search fee, 13
                 paper copies, public access terminals, 13
         courtroom sharing, 16, 33-34
         electronic public access, 12-13
         electronic records, location, 7-8
         fees, 9-10, 12-15
         information technology security, 6
         Internet, appropriate use, 6
         Internet access to electronic records, 12-14
         Internet access to local rules, 14
         juror qualification questionnaire; 15
         miscellaneous fee schedules, 12-15
         miscellaneous fees, 9-10, 12-15
         place of ho1dillg bankruptcy court, 9
         social security appeals reporting requirement, 15-16

Court Administration and Case Management, Committee on, 9, 12-16, 31




                                            iv
                                                                          March 14, 2001
Court of Federal Claims
      electronic public access fees, 12-13
      miscellaneous fees, 12-13

Court Personnel System, 25-26

Court security officers
       medical standards, 34
       physical examinations, 34

Courthouses (see space and facilities)

Courtrooms (see space and facilities)

Courts of appeals (see also court administration)
      court records, location, 7-8
      fees, electronic public access
              access to court files, 12-13
              PACER Service Center search, 13
              paper copies, public access terminals, 13
      fees, miscellaneous
              copies oflocal rules, 14
              electronic public access, 12-13
              reproduction of recordings, 13
      forms for judgments in a criminal case, 17
      judgeship needs survey, 24-25
      reappointment of bankruptcy judges, 8-9

Criminal Justice Act (CJA) (see also defender services; federal defenders)
      amicus curiae policy for federal defenders, 20
      community defender organization audits, 18
      community defender organization grant and conditions agreement, 18
      Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act, 20- 21
      panel attorney automation expenses; 20-21
      panel attorney compensation, 21
      use ofCJA resources, 20-21

Criminal law (see also probation and pretrial services system)
      judgment forms, 17
      risk prediction index, 17

Criminal Law, Committee on, 17-18


                                             v
, Judicial Conference of the United States

 Defender services (see also Criminal Justice Act; federal defenders)
       community defender organization audits, 18
       community defender organization grant and conditions agreement, 18
       defender organization funding, 21
       federal defender participation as amicus. curiae, 20
       panel attorney automation expenses, 20-21
       panel attorney compensation, 21

 Defender Services, Committee on, 18-21

 Department of Justice
       Federal Bureau of Prisons, 17
       United States Marshals Service, 34
       wiretap reports, 6

  Design Guide (see U S. Courts Design Guide)

  Disabled employees, reasonable accommodation, 18-19, 25-26

  District courts (see also bankruptcy system; court administration; magistrate judges
  system; probation and pretrial services system)
         changes in magistrate judge positions, 28-30
         Civil Litigation Management Manual, 15
         CJRA reporting requirements, 15-16
         court records, location, 7-8
         diversity jurisdiction, 21-22
         electronic public access to court information, 12-13
         electronic records, location, 7-8
         fees, electronic public access
                 access to court files, 12-13
                 PACER Service Center search, 13
                 paper copies, public access terminals, 13
         fees, miscellaneous
                 copies oflocal rules, 14
                 electronic public access, 12-13
                 filing miscellaneous docriments, 14-15
                 PACER Service Center search, 13
                 paper copies through public access terminals, 13
                 reproduction of recordings, ·13
          forms for judgments in a criminal case, 17
         judgeship needs survey, 24-25


                                             vi
                                                                           March 14,)001

District courts (continued)
        jurisdiction, 21-22
        juror qualification questionnaire, 15
        release of non-resident facilities, 32

District judges (see judges, district)

Diversity jurisdiction, 21-22

Electronic public access (EPA) (see also Intemet)
       access to case files, 12-13
       case management/electronic case files systems (CM!ECF), 12-13, 13
       fees, 9-10, 12-13
       local rules, 14
       miscellaneous fee schedule, 12-13
       records, location, 7-8
       reproduction of recordings, 13-14

Employment Cost Index (ECI) pay adjustments, 23-24

Ergonomics, 33

Ernst & Young, 33-34

Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 4

Executive branch
      Census Bureau, 15
      Commissioner of Social Security, 16
      courthouse construction projects, 32
      Department of Justice, 6
             Federal Bureau of Prisons, 17
             United States Marshals Service, 34
      Employment Cost Index pay adjustment, 24
      General Services Administration, 32
      Office of Management and Budget, 32
      President of the United States, 24, 32
      presidential commission on salaries, 24
      race and ethnicity terminology, 15

Executive Committee, 4-6, 9, 31


                                                 vii
Judicial Corrference ofthe United States


'Federal Bureau of Prisons, 17

Federal Courts Improvement Act of2000, 18,25

Federal courts improvement legislation, 4-5

Federal defenders (see also Criminal Justice Act, defender services)
         amicus curiae policy, 20
         disabled, personal assistants, 18-19
         professional liability insurance, 19

Federal Judicial Center, 4, 7, 15, 17

Federal public defender organizations (see Criminal Justice Act, defender services)

Federal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Federal-State Jurisdiction, Committee on, 21-22

Fees
         amendments in bankruptcy cases, 14
         appeals by bankruptcy trustees, 9
         copies, public access terminals, 13
         copies oflocal rules, 14
         electronic public access, 9-10, 12•13
         filing miscellaneous documents, 14-15
         financial disclosure report copies, waiver, 5
         Internet access to court records, 12-13
         miscellaneous, 9-10, 12-15
         miscellaneous fee schedules
                 bankruptcy, 9-10, 12-15
                 court of appeals, 12-14
                 Court of Federal Claims, 12-13, 14
                 district court, 12-15
                 electronic public access, 12-13
                 Judici~J Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, 12-13
         PACER Service Center search, 13
         reproduction of recordings, 13•14
         waiver, financial disclosure report copies, 5

Financial Disclosure, Committee on, 4, 5, 22

                                                viii
                                                                       March 14, 2001

Financial disclosure reports, 4, 5, 22
      authority to redact, 4
      copy fee waiver, 5
      Identity Theft and Assumption Deterrence Act of 1998, 4
      legislation, 4

Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 32

General Services Administration, 32

Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, 16

Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal
Justice Act and Related Statutes, 20-21

Hershner, Robert F. Jr., 4

Identity Theft and Assumption Deterrence Act of 1998, 4

Illustrative Rules Governing Complaints of Judicial Misconduct and Disability, 31

Information technology (see also Internet)
      appropriate use, 6
      electronic records, location, 7-8
      Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the Federal Judiciary, 7
      recruitment and retention bonuses, automation positions, 26
      security, 6
      use ofCJA resources, 20-21

Intercireuit assignments, 23

Intercircuit Assignments, Committee on, 23

International Judicial Relations, Committee on, 23

Internet (see also information technology)
       access to court information, 12-13
       appropriate use policies, 6
      case management/electronic case files, 12-13
       fee for access to court records, 12-13
       fee for copies oflocal rules, 14
       non-business-related sites, 6

                                          ix
Judicial Conference of the United States


Judges, Article Ill (see also judges, federal; judgeships, Article III)
      compensation, 23-24
      intercircuit assignments, 23
      senior, courtroom sharing, 34

Judges, bankruptcy (see also bankruptcy system; judges, federal)
      courtroomsharing,l6
      reappointment, 8-9
      retirement funds, judiciary contribution, I 0

Judges, chief
      appellate, reappointment of bankruptcy judges, 9
      handbook on administrative oversight, 7
      Internet, policy on appropriate use, 6      .
      reasonable accommodation for employees with disabilities, 25

Judges, circuit (see judges, .Article. III; judges, chief; judges, federal)

Judges, Court of Federal Claims (see judges, federal)

Judges, district (see judges, Article III; judges, chief; judges, federal)

Judges, federal (see also judges, Article III; judges, bankruptcy; judges, chief; judges,
magistraty)
       Code of Conduct for United States Judges, 11
       compensation, 23-24
       disabled, personal assistants, 25-26
       financial disclosure, 4, 22
       pay adjustments, 23-24
       travel reimbursement rate, 5
       wiretap reports, 6

Judges, magistrate (see also judges, federal; magistrate judges system)
      changes in positions, 28-30
      part-time, reimbursement for certain staff expenses, 27-28
      reimbursement regulations, 27-28
      retirement funds, judiciary contribution, 10




                                               X
                                                                         March 14, 2001

Judgeships, Article III
      biennial survey of needs, 24-25
      eliminating or not filling, 24·25
      vacancies, 24-25

Judgments in a criminal ease,l7

Judicial Branch, Committee on the, 23-24, 33

Judicial Conference of the United States
       Foundation, 5
       funding of actions, 34
       mail ballots, 32

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
       electronic public access fees, 12-13

.Judicial Resources, Committee on, 24-27, 33

Judiciary Salary Plan, 25

Jury administration
      juror qualification questionnaire, 15
      jury boxes in bankruptcy courtrooms, 33

Law clerks
      code of conduct, 10-12
      conflict of interest, duty of inquiry, 10-12
      recruitment and retention survey, 27
      student loan deferral, 26-27

Legislative branch (see Congress)

Local rules, J4, 16

Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the Federal Judiciary, 7

Magistrate judges (see judges, magistrate)




                                              xi
Judicial Conference ofthe United States


Magistrate judges system (see also judges, magistrate)
      changes in positions, 28-30
      courtroom sharing, 16
      growth, 5, 30-31                             .    .
      part-time judges, reimbursement for certain staffexpenses,27-28
      reimbursement regulations, 27-28

Magistrate Judges System, Committee on the Administration
ofthe, 5, 27-31

Mail ballots of the Judicial Conference
       courthouse construction submission process, 32
       five-year courthouse project plan, fiscal years 2002-2006, 32
       new space for Eleventh Circuit staff, 3 2

Miscellaneous fee schedules (see fees)

Morgan, Virginia M., 4

Office of Management and Budget, 32

Omnib11s Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of1968, 6

PACER (see Public Access to Court Electronic Records)

Panel attorneys (see Criminal Justice Act; defender services)

Personnel, court
      bonuses for automation, 26
      disabled, reasonable accommodations, 18-19,25-26
      ergonomics, 33
      law clerk student loan deferrals, 26-27
      personal assistants for disabled, 18-19,25-26
      professional liability insurance, 19, 26
      recruitment and retention bonuses, 26

Pilot programs
       recruitment and retention bonuses, 26

Place of holding bankruptcy court, 9


                                           xii
                                                                              March 14, 2001

President ofthe United States, 24, 32

Pretrial services system (see probation and pretrial services system)

                   '
Probation and pretrial    services officers (see also personnel, court; probation and
pretrial services system)
         personal assistants for disabled, 25-26
        professional liability insurance, 26
        risk prediction index, 17

Probation and pretrial services system
      professional liability insurance, 26
      risk prediction index, 17

Professional liability insurance, 19, 26

Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER) (see also fees)
       Service Center search fee, 13

Records, location, 7-8

Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States for the Selection,
Appointment, and Reappointment of United States Bankruptcy Judges, 8

Resident alien proviso, 21-22

Resolution
      Rogers, Harold, 6

Retirement
      bankruptcy judges, 10
      Civil Service Retirement System, 10
      funds, judiciary contribution, 10
      magistrate judges, 10

Risk prediction index, 17

Rogers, Harold, 6

Rule of law programs, 23



                                             xiii
Judicial Conference ofthe United States


Rules of practice and procedure, 31
       Civil Rule 5(d), 16
       copies oflocal rules, 14

Rules of Practice and Procedure, Committee on, 31     j
Salaries (see compensation)
                                                      1
Security
       court security officers
               medical standards, 34
               physical examinations, 34
                                                      l
                                                      I

       information technology, 6

Security and Facilities, Committee on, 4, 16, 32-34
                                                      \
Small, A. Thomas, 4                                   I
Social security appeals, 15-16                        !
Space and facilities
      construction submission process, 32
      courthouse construction funding, 32
      courtroom sharing, 16, 33-34
      ergonomics in the workplace, 33
      Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 32
      jury boxes in bankruptcy courtrooms, 33
      release of non-resident court facilities, 32
      space for Eleventh Circuit staff, 32
       U. S. Courts Design Guide, 33

Staff attorneys
        code of conduct, 10-12
        conflict of interest, 10-12

Supporting personnel (see personnel, court)

Technology (see information technology)

Temporary Emergency Fund (TEF), 27


                                            xiv
                                                        March 14, 2001

Travel, judges'
       alternative subsistence rate, 5

United States Marshals Service, 34

United States Sentencing Commission, 7, 17

U. S. Courts Design Guide, 33

Wiretap reports, 6




                                                 XV
 >"!U.S. OOVERNMENTPR!NTJNG OFFICE; 2001-48)-2%140285
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE   U.S. COURTS
THURGOOD MARsHALL FEDERAL JUDICIARY BUILDING
           VVASHINGTON,D.C.20544
