R EPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE J UDICIAL C ONFERENCE
OF THE U NITED S TATES


March 13, 2002


              The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
      D.C., on March 13, 2002, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
      United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
      the following members of the Conference were present:

             First Circuit:

                         Chief Judge Michael Boudin
                         Chief Judge D. Brock Hornby,
                                District of Maine

             Second Circuit:

                         Chief Judge John M. Walker, Jr.
                         Chief Judge Frederick J. Scullin, Jr.,
                                Northern District of New York

             Third Circuit:

                         Chief Judge Edward R. Becker
                         Chief Judge Sue L. Robinson,
                                District of Delaware

             Fourth Circuit:

                         Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III
                         Chief Judge Charles H. Haden II,
                                Southern District of West Virginia

             Fifth Circuit:

                         Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King
                         Judge Martin L. C. Feldman,
                                Eastern District of Louisiana
Judicial Conference of the United States

                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Boyce F. Martin, Jr.
                                           Chief Judge Lawrence P. Zatkoff,
                                                  Eastern District of Michigan

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel M. Flaum
                                           Chief Judge Marvin E. Aspen,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge David R. Hansen
                                           Chief Judge James M. Rosenbaum,
                                                  District of Minnesota

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary M. Schroeder
                                           Judge Judith N. Keep,
                                                  Southern District of California

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Deanell R. Tacha
                                           Chief Judge Frank Howell Seay,
                                                  Eastern District of Oklahoma

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge R. Lanier Anderson
                                           Chief Judge Charles R. Butler, Jr.,
                                                  Southern District of Alabama




                                                               2
                                                                March 13, 2002

       District of Columbia Circuit:

                  Chief Judge Douglas H. Ginsburg
                  Chief Judge Thomas F. Hogan,
                         District of Columbia

       Federal Circuit:

                  Chief Judge Haldane Robert Mayer

       Court of International Trade:

                  Chief Judge Gregory W. Carman

        Circuit Judges Edward E. Carnes, Dennis G. Jacobs, Michael J.
Melloy, Jane R. Roth, Anthony J. Scirica, and William W. Wilkins, Jr., and
District Judges Lourdes G. Baird, Robin J. Cauthron, John G. Heyburn II,
David F. Levi, John W. Lungstrum, Edwin L. Nelson, Harvey E. Schlesinger
and Frederick P. Stamp, Jr. attended the Conference session. Jan Horbaly of
the Federal Circuit represented the circuit executives.

        Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Clarence
A. Lee, Jr., Associate Director for Management and Operations; William R.
Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General Counsel; Karen K. Siegel,
Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Michael W.
Blommer, Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; David Sellers, Assistant
Director, Public Affairs; and Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant Director,
Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat. Judge Fern Smith and Russell
Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center, also
attended the session of the Conference, as did Sally Rider, Administrative
Assistant to the Chief Justice.

        Senators Patrick J. Leahy, Charles E. Schumer, and Orrin G. Hatch and
and Representatives F. James Sensenbrenner and Howard Coble spoke on
matters pending in Congress of interest to the Conference. Solicitor General
Theodore Olson addressed the Conference on matters of mutual interest to the
judiciary and the Department of Justice.




                                       3
Judicial Conference of the United States


             R EPORTS
                             Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                     courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge Smith
                     spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs, and Judge
                     Diana E. Murphy, Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission, reported
                     on Sentencing Commission activities.


             E LECTIONS
                            The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
                     Federal Judicial Center for a term of four years Circuit Judge Pierre Leval of
                     the Second Circuit to succeed Circuit Judge Stanley Marcus.


             E XECUTIVE C OMMITTEE

                     UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION

                             In September 2001, the Judicial Conference recommended that the
                     President reappoint to the United States Sentencing Commission Judges
                     Sterling Johnson, Jr. of the Eastern District of New York and Joe Kendall of
                     the Northern District of Texas (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, p. 39). Subsequently,
                     Judge Kendall resigned from the federal bench. At this session, on
                     recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Judicial Conference—

                     a.       Reaffirmed its recommendation that the President reappoint Judge
                              Johnson; and

                     b.       In lieu of recommending the reappointment of Judge Kendall, urged the
                              President to appoint Judge Ricardo Hinojosa of the Southern District of
                              Texas.


                     FIVE-YEAR JURISDICTIONAL REVIEW

                            Every five years each committee of the Judicial Conference must
                     recommend to the Executive Committee, with a justification, whether it should
                     be maintained or abolished (JCUS-SEP 87, p. 60). Pursuant to this mandate,


                                                             4
                                                                    March 13, 2002

each committee submitted to the Executive Committee a completed self-
evaluation questionnaire, which was considered by the Executive Committee at
its February 2002 meeting. The Executive Committee made no changes to the
committee structure itself, but, on request of the respective committees, revised
the jurisdictional statements of the Committees on Defender Services, Judicial
Resources, Magistrate Judges, and Security and Facilities. The Executive
Committee also revised its own jurisdictional statement. In addition, at the
request of the Committee on Automation and Technology, the Executive
Committee agreed to transfer two areas of responsibility from that committee’s
jurisdiction to the jurisdiction of the Committee on Court Administration and
Case Management. These revisions were made final in March 2002, following
an opportunity for comment by committee chairs. The Executive Committee
also approved a recommendation of the Committee on Automation and
Technology to change its name to the Committee on Information Technology
and slightly modified the jurisdictional statement of that committee.


PRIVACY AND PUBLIC ACCESS TO ELECTRONIC CASE FILES

        In September 2001, the Judicial Conference approved a policy on
privacy and public access to electronic case files that includes a prohibition on
electronic public access to documents in criminal cases, with the proviso that
the prohibition be reexamined within two years (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, pp. 48-
50). In December 2001, the Committee on Court Administration and Case
Management asked the Executive Committee to approve two exceptions to this
prohibition, one for a pilot program whereby selected courts would provide
electronic access to all criminal cases to facilitate reexamination of the policy,
and the other for “high-profile” criminal cases where requests for documents
impose extraordinary demands on a court’s resources. The Executive
Committee declined, without addressing the merits of the request, because it
did not find that the circumstances rose to the level of an “emergency”
requiring action prior to the next Conference session.

        In January 2002, however, prompted by the recent filing of a high-
profile case in the Eastern District of Virginia that resulted in extensive
requests by the media for copies of documents, the Executive Committee
agreed to approve on an interim basis, pending consideration by the full
Conference, an exception to the prohibition on electronic public access in
criminal cases for cases that place extraordinary demands on clerks’ offices.
The exception requires consent of the parties as well as a finding by the trial
judge or presiding judge of the appellate panel that such access is warranted
under the circumstances. Subsequently, in response to concerns raised, the

                                        5
Judicial Conference of the United States

                     Committee also clarified the policy, noting that it did not prohibit web
                     publication of, or electronic access to, judicial opinions and orders in criminal
                     cases.

                              At this session, the Conference made permanent the exception for
                     high-profile cases that place extraordinary demands on clerks’ offices and
                     approved the pilot program requested by the Committee on Court
                     Administration and Case Management (see infra, “Privacy and Public Access
                     to Electronic Case Files,” pp. 10-11).


                     MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                              The Executive Committee—

                     •        Approved proposed adjustments to the judiciary’s fiscal year 2003
                              budget request to take into consideration increases in the federal pay
                              inflation rate and an anticipated postage rate increase as well as to fund
                              recurring costs in the court security program that are associated with the
                              judiciary’s fiscal year 2001 emergency supplemental appropriation on
                              terrorism.

                     •        Approved a proposed spending plan for utilization of $82.2 million in
                              supplemental funding received by the judiciary for security following
                              the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

                     •        Approved, with minor modifications, a Report on the Jury System in the
                              Federal Courts that was prepared in response to congressional directive
                              and required to be filed with Congress by February 1, 2002.

                     •        In light of recent anthrax contamination of the United States mail
                              system, adopted recommendations of the Committee on Security and
                              Facilities to secure efficient and appropriate means of providing
                              nationwide access to anthrax testing services and expert advice on
                              addressing biological/chemical threats and to pursue possible changes
                              to the U.S. Courts Design Guide to address biological and chemical
                              threats.

                     •        Allowed to take effect an automatic inflationary increase in the
                              alternative subsistence amount for reimbursement of judges’ travel
                              expenses in light of the continued rise in travel costs in many locations.


                                                              6
                                                                          March 13, 2002

    •         Requested that the Judicial Branch Committee reconsider the collection
              of data on non-case related travel of judges for the purpose of reporting
              that travel to Congress (see infra, “Travel Regulations for United States
              Justices and Judges,” p. 21).

    •         Agreed to dissolve the Coordinating Group on Financial Disclosure
              Legislation because its primary purpose was accomplished, i.e.,
              obtaining elimination or extension of the sunset date of the
              Conference’s authority to redact for security purposes information in
              judges’ financial disclosure reports.


C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATIVE O FFICE

        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it reviewed
        the progress of several major initiatives, including the AO’s efforts to enhance
        security of judges, judiciary personnel, and courthouses in the wake of the
        September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and in response to the threat of anthrax
        in the mail. In light of the increased emphasis on electronic communications,
        the Committee asked the Administrative Office to undertake a comprehensive
        study of the requirements, practices, and methods of effective distribution of
        information to court officials who need it. The Committee reviewed and
        expressed its continuing support for the AO’s management oversight and
        stewardship initiatives, including numerous accomplishments achieved in
        2001. The Committee considered a report on Administrative Office priorities
        from 1985 to 2001, and unanimously passed a resolution in recognition of
        Director Mecham’s leadership during this period.


C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
OF THE B ANKRUPTCY S YSTEM

    OFFICIAL DUTY STATIONS/PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

           Under 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(1), the Judicial Conference has authority to
    designate the places of holding court and official duty stations of bankruptcy
    judges. The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System



                                               7
Judicial Conference of the United States

                     periodically conducts comprehensive nationwide surveys to discover any
                     inaccuracies in such designations that might develop over time. Based on the
                     most recent survey, which was conducted in the fall of 2001, and with the
                     approval of the respective judges, courts, and circuit judicial councils, the
                     Bankruptcy Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved,
                     changes in five official duty stations and eight places of holding court as
                     follows:

                     OFFICIAL DUTY STATIONS

                     1.       Transfer the official duty station of the bankruptcy judge at Hato Rey in
                              the District of Puerto Rico to San Juan;

                     2.       Designate the official duty station of Bankruptcy Judge Albert S.
                              Dabrowski in the District of Connecticut as “Hartford or New Haven”;

                     3.       Transfer the official duty station of Bankruptcy Judge Stephen S.
                              Mitchell in the Eastern District of Virginia from Richmond to
                              Alexandria;

                     4.       Transfer the official duty station of Chief Bankruptcy Judge Kent
                              Lindquist in the Northern District of Indiana from Gary to Hammond;
                              and

                     5.       Transfer the official duty station of the bankruptcy judge at Rome in the
                              Northern District of Georgia to Atlanta.

                     PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

                              District                      City                   Change
                              Massachusetts                 Barnstable             Addition
                              Puerto Rico                   Ponce                  Addition
                              Virginia-Western              Woodstock              Deletion
                              Ohio-Southern                 Steubenville           Deletion
                              Ohio-Southern                 St. Clairsville        Addition
                              Illinois-Southern             Effingham              Addition
                              Oregon                        Redmond                Addition
                              Georgia-Northern              Rome                   Addition




                                                              8
                                                                      March 13, 2002



    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Bankruptcy Committee reported that it decided to ask the Federal
    Judicial Center to begin planning two new studies: one to reassess the existing
    case-weights used in evaluating additional judgeship requests because of the
    many developments – legislative, technological, and economic – that have
    affected judicial workload since the case-weights were first developed; and a
    second to study venue-related issues, including identification of factors that
    influence selection of venue for chapter 11 cases of large companies. The
    Committee also endorsed several actions that it believes will enhance relations
    between district and bankruptcy courts and promote collegiality among the
    judges.


C OMMITTEE ON THE B UDGET

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on the Budget reported that it discussed court security
    issues related to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and other security
    threats, and the short-term and long-term funding implications of these issues.
    The Committee also discussed the possibility of serious budget constraints in
    future years due to the slowing economy and the shift in the federal budget
    situation from anticipated surpluses to expected deficits. The Committee
    hopes to use the long-range planning process and its summer meetings with
    the program committee chairs as vehicles to encourage program committees to
    look at long-range budget issues and ways to economize and prioritize.


C OMMITTEE ON C ODES OF C ONDUCT

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

           Since its last report in September 2001, the Committee on Codes of
    Conduct received 27 new written inquiries (three of which were subsequently
    withdrawn) and issued 22 written advisory responses. During this period, the
    average response time for requests was 18 days. The Chairman received and
    responded to 16 telephonic inquiries. In addition, individual Committee
    members responded to 95 inquiries from their colleagues.


                                           9
Judicial Conference of the United States


             C OMMITTEE ON C OURT A DMINISTRATION
             AND C ASE M ANAGEMENT

                      PRIVACY AND PUBLIC ACCESS TO ELECTRONIC CASE FILES

                               Model Local Rules. In September 2001, the Conference adopted
                      model local rules for district and bankruptcy courts to assist those courts in
                      implementing electronic case filing (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, p. 50). At this
                      session, on recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
                      Case Management, the Conference adopted amendments to Rule 12 of the
                      Model Local District Court Rules for Electronic Case Filing to conform those
                      rules to the policy on privacy and public access to electronic case files also
                      adopted by the Conference in September 2001 (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, pp. 48-
                      50). Rule 12, as amended, clarifies that access to unsealed civil documents is
                      still available at the courthouse and that anyone with a Public Access to
                      Electronic Court Records (PACER) account can access unsealed electronic
                      documents over the Internet, consistent with the Conference-approved privacy
                      policy.

                              Criminal Case Files Pilot Program. As noted above (see supra,
                      “Privacy and Public Access to Electronic Case Files,” pp. 5-6), the policy on
                      privacy and public access to electronic case files, adopted by the Conference
                      in September 2001, prohibits remote public electronic access to criminal case
                      file documents, with the proviso that the Committee on Court Administration
                      and Case Management reexamine the prohibition within two years (JCUS-
                      SEP/OCT 01, pp. 48-50). On recommendation of the Committee, the
                      Conference approved creation of a pilot program to allow selected courts to
                      provide remote public electronic access to criminal case file documents. The
                      authority to select the participating courts was delegated to the Committee.
                      The Federal Judicial Center has agreed to study the participating courts within
                      the two-year time frame and inform the Committee of its findings.

                              “High-Profile” Criminal Cases. The Committee also recommended a
                      modification to the criminal case files provision of the privacy policy to allow
                      remote public electronic access to files in “high-profile” criminal cases where
                      requests for documents impose extraordinary demands on a court’s resources.
                      Consent of the parties would be required as well as a finding by the trial judge
                      or presiding judge of the appellate panel that such access is warranted under
                      the circumstances. In January 2002, the Executive Committee approved such
                      an exception on an interim basis, pending consideration by the Conference, to


                                                             10
                                                                   March 13, 2002

accommodate a recent high-profile case filed in the Eastern District of
Virginia (see supra, “Privacy and Public Access to Electronic Case Files,”
pp. 5-6). At this session, the Conference approved the Committee’s
recommendation to allow such exceptions on a permanent basis.


JURY WHEEL DATA

         To ensure that juries are selected randomly from a fair cross section of
the community, the Administrative Office provides Census Bureau data for
every jury division in each federal district showing racial, ethnic and gender
composition of the general voting-age population to serve as a basis for
comparison to jury wheel samplings. However, two recent court rulings have
found that because an individual must be a citizen to be eligible to serve as a
juror, the relevant population with which to make these comparisons is the
voting-age population of citizens, rather than the voting-age population of all
persons. Finding that the voting-age citizen population would provide a more
precise basis for comparison against jury wheel samplings, the Committee
recommended, and the Conference approved, the use of such data in lieu of
voting-age general population data for district courts to complete Part IV of
the Form JS-12, “Report on the Operation of the Jury Selection Plan.” The
Conference directed the Administrative Office to make any necessary
amendments to the form to comport with this change.


ELECTRONIC PUBLIC ACCESS FEE SCHEDULE

        The Electronic Public Access Fee Schedule imposes a fee of seven
cents per page for case file data obtained via the Internet (JCUS-SEP 98,
p. 64; JCUS-MAR 01, pp. 12-13). This fee is based upon the total number of
pages in a document, even if only one page is viewed, because the case
management/electronic case files system (CM/ECF) software cannot
accommodate a request for a specific range of pages from a document.
Concerns have been raised that this can result in a relatively high charge for a
small usage. Balancing user concerns with the need to generate sufficient
revenue to fund the program, the Committee recommended that the Judicial
Conference amend Section I of the Electronic Public Access Fee Schedule to
cap the charge for accessing any single document via the Internet at the fee for
30 pages. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.




                                       11
Judicial Conference of the United States



                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                      reported on several steps being taken to implement the policy on privacy and
                      access to electronic case files approved by the Judicial Conference in
                      September 2001 (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, pp. 48-50). The Committee also
                      discussed implementation of Recommendation 73 of the Long Range Plan for
                      the Federal Courts as it pertains to the statistical data that is collected by the
                      courts, and the current practices in the courts regarding fee waivers for
                      electronic public access. The Committee supported the establishment of a
                      Criminal Justice Act (CJA) supervising attorney position in courts that would
                      find it of value (using only local funds), and communicated this position to the
                      Judicial Resources Committee, which was preparing a recommendation to the
                      Conference on this matter (see infra, “Criminal Justice Act Supervising
                      Attorneys,” p. 23).


             C OMMITTEE ON C RIMINAL L AW

                      JUVENILE DELINQUENCY PROVISIONS OF 18 U.S.C. § 5037

                              The Committee on Criminal Law reviewed the juvenile delinquency
                      provisions of 18 U.S.C. § 5037 and recommended that the Judicial Conference
                      seek certain amendments thereto. First, the Committee recommended that
                      18 U.S.C. § 5037 be amended to authorize imposition of “juvenile
                      delinquency supervision,” a new form of supervision to follow any
                      imprisonment of juvenile delinquents. Currently, there is no effective way
                      under the statute to provide for post-imprisonment supervision that would
                      permit juveniles to receive the kind of assistance available to adults in the
                      transition from prison to the community. Second, the Committee
                      recommended that section 5037 be amended to establish procedures for
                      revocation of probation or juvenile delinquency supervision that are
                      specifically for juveniles under 21 years of age. The cross-reference to the
                      adult mandatory revocation provisions in 18 U.S.C. § 3565 would be deleted
                      for persons who are under 21 years of age at the time of revocation. Third, the
                      Committee recommended the creation of authority to sanction violations of
                      probation or juvenile delinquency supervision for persons over 21 years of
                      age. Finally, the Committee recommended codification of the holding in
                      United States v. R.L.C., 503 U.S. 291 (1992), to limit juveniles sentenced to
                      terms of imprisonment to sentences that could be imposed upon similarly

                                                             12
                                                                        March 13, 2002

    situated adults under the sentencing guidelines. The Conference agreed to
    seek the amendments recommended by the Committee.


    TECHNICAL AMENDMENT TO THE SPEEDY TRIAL ACT

           On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed
    to propose technical amendments to 18 U.S.C. § 3161(h) that would remove
    obsolete references to a provision of the Narcotic Addict Rehabilitation Act
    (28 U.S.C. § 2902). The Narcotic Addict Rehabilitation Act was repealed on
    October 17, 2000, by the Children’s Health Act of 2000, Public Law
    No. 106-310.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it was briefed on a
    comprehensive plan developed by the Department of Justice to enhance state
    drug courts nationwide, to ensure drug-free federal prisons, and to increase
    drug testing of offenders in the community. The plan included
    recommendations that the Department of Justice work with the judiciary on
    initiatives related to pretrial and post-conviction drug testing and treatment for
    those on probation, parole, or supervised release. The Committee was also
    briefed on the activities of an ad hoc working group that is reviewing and
    revising pretrial services and post-conviction supervision policies and of an
    ad hoc working group examining officer safety issues.


C OMMITTEE ON D EFENDER S ERVICES

    PANEL ATTORNEY COMPENSATION

            The Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 amended
    21 U.S.C. § 848(q)(10)(A) to establish a maximum compensation rate of $125
    per hour for panel attorney services in capital cases. That section also
    provides a specific mechanism for the Judicial Conference to authorize
    increases to the maximum hourly rate to take into account increases in the
    rates of federal pay. Noting the significant erosion since 1996 in the economic
    value of the $125 capital rate, and reiterating the importance of maintaining a
    rate of compensation at a level sufficient to assure appointment of qualified
    attorneys (see JCUS-SEP 98, pp. 67-74), the Committee recommended that

                                           13
Judicial Conference of the United States

                        the Judicial Conference exercise its authority under 21 U.S.C. § 848(q)(10)(A)
                        to authorize all available Employment Cost Index (ECI) increases to the
                        maximum hourly compensation rate for panel attorneys in capital cases. The
                        Committee also recommended that the Conference amend paragraph 6.02A of
                        the Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act and Related
                        Statutes, Volume VII, Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, to provide
                        for future annual ECI increases automatically, subject to the availability of
                        funding. The Conference approved the Committee’s recommendations.


                        PHYSICAL FITNESS CENTERS

                                In September 2001, the Judicial Conference adopted a policy on
                        physical fitness centers that, among other things, authorizes courts to expend
                        local funds to allow court staff to participate in fitness center activities
                        (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, p. 62). Based on a determination that federal public and
                        community defender organization personnel could also benefit from this
                        policy, the Committee recommended that the Conference approve the
                        inclusion of federal public and community defender organizations in the
                        Conference’s policy on physical fitness centers under the same terms as those
                        applied to court units. The Committee’s recommendation was approved.


                        GRANT AND CONDITIONS AGREEMENT

                               The Judicial Conference adopted a recommendation of the Committee
                        to modify Clause 25 (Failure to Comply with Terms and Conditions) of the
                        Grant and Conditions Agreement with Community Defender Organizations
                        (Appendix D, Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act
                        and Related Statutes, Volume VII, Guide to Judiciary Policies and
                        Procedures) to clarify the remedies available for the failure of grantees to
                        comply with the terms of the grant and conditions agreement. The following
                        sentence was added to the end of Clause 251:

                               The Conference reserves the right to pursue all remedies,
                               including, but not limited to, recovery of monetary damages
                               and accrued interest, for grantee’s failure to comply with any of



                    1
                     The Conference also corrected a typographical error in the preceding sentence,
                    replacing “therefore” with “therefor.”

                                                              14
                                                                       March 13, 2002

           the terms and conditions of the grant award or to deliver the
           representation and other services which are the subject of the
           agreement.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Defender Services reported that, under its delegated
    authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR 89, pp. 16-17), it
    approved additional funding requests for fiscal year 2001 for federal defender
    organizations in the amount of $519,900 and for fiscal year 2002 in the
    amount of $710,500. In addition, the Committee approved fiscal year 2002
    funding of $221,000 for a new federal defender organization branch office,
    subject to congressional authorization and the availability of funds.

            The Committee also reported that it approved revisions and additions
    to the Strategic Plan Outline for the Defender Services Program relating to
    federal capital representations. The Committee also received reports on
    federal defender and panel attorney training events in fiscal years 2001and
    2002, and on legislative activity in the 107th Congress. The Committee
    discussed several items to be considered by the Committee on Judicial
    Resources insofar as they affect defender services: the Criminal Justice Act
    supervising attorney pilot project (see infra, “Criminal Justice Act Supervising
    Attorneys,” p. 23); expanded use of background checks; court unit executive
    leave (see infra, “Judiciary Leave Policy,” pp. 24-25); and release of personnel
    information. The Committee’s views on these items were conveyed to the
    Judicial Resources Committee.


C OMMITTEE ON F EDERAL -S TATE J URISDICTION

    SECTION 204 OF THE PROPOSED INNOCENCE
    PROTECTION ACT OF 2001

            Section 204 of the proposed Innocence Protection Act of 2001 (S. 486
    and H.R. 912, 107th Congress) would amend 28 U.S.C. § 2254 to provide that
    in a habeas corpus proceeding instituted by an indigent applicant under
    sentence of death, the court shall not presume a finding of fact made by a state
    court to be correct, or decline to consider a claim on the ground that the
    applicant failed to raise the claim in state court, unless the state provided the
    applicant with legal representation at the pertinent stage in the state court

                                           15
Judicial Conference of the United States

                        proceedings under a system that met the standards formulated by a National
                        Commission on Capital Representation.2 The Committee on Federal-State
                        Jurisdiction was prepared to make a recommendation to the September 2001
                        Judicial Conference opposing section 204 but determined to reconsider the
                        matter in view of a 1990 Conference position that had come to its attention.3

                                Upon reconsideration, the Committee again determined that section
                        204 raised serious federalism, resource, and practical concerns and threatened
                        to unsettle existing habeas corpus requirements and therefore should be
                        opposed. With regard to the Conference’s prior position, it was the
                        Committee’s view that the Conference’s 1990 position was ambiguous, and
                        that many changes in the law had occurred since the 1990 position was
                        adopted. Deciding, therefore, to base its recommendation upon the current
                        legal landscape, the Committee recommended that the Conference express its
                        continued support for the goal of ensuring that capital defendants have


                    2
                     Section 201 of S. 486 and H.R. 912 would create a National Commission that
                    would be responsible for formulating standards specifying the elements of an
                    effective system for providing adequate representation.
                    3
                     This position on procedural default rules and state findings of fact was adopted
                    in March 1990 in conjunction with consideration of the Report of the Ad Hoc
                    Committee on Federal Habeas Corpus in Capital Cases (often referred to as the
                    Powell Committee Report), but was not included in the March 1990 Report of
                    the Proceedings of the Judicial Conference of the United States. The position is
                    as follows:

                                       Upon the filing of a petition for a writ of habeas corpus
                              in the federal court the court should first determine whether the
                              specific guidelines for competent counsel were followed in the
                              state proceedings. If the court determines that competent
                              counsel was appointed in the state proceedings, the same counsel
                              should be appointed in the federal court, wherever possible. If
                              the court determines that competent counsel was not appointed
                              in the state proceedings, the federal district court should appoint
                              new counsel under the governing guidelines. In the latter case,
                              the federal court should not require dismissal of non-exhausted
                              state claims, or apply any procedural default rules or the rule
                              governing the presumption of correctness of state court findings
                              of fact.


                                                               16
                                                                     March 13, 2002

    competent representation in both state and federal capital proceedings at every
    stage of their cases, but oppose section 204 of the Innocence Protection Act.
    The Committee also recommended that to the extent the current and 1990
    positions were in conflict, the 1990 position be superseded by the current
    position on section 204. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
    recommendations.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it had
    conducted a panel discussion on class action litigation, which included
    presentations by judges, practitioners, and academics, to assist the Committee
    in its ongoing review of problems and potential solutions relating to
    overlapping and multistate class actions. The Committee also informed the
    Conference of its consideration of the report of the Subcommittee on Mass
    Torts of the Bankruptcy Committee regarding the treatment of mass future
    claims in bankruptcy. In addition, the Committee reported on the work of its
    Subcommittee on Federal-State Interaction, which is charged with making
    suggestions as to how the Committee can better foster state-federal relations
    and educational initiatives.


C OMMITTEE ON F INANCIAL D ISCLOSURE

    SPECIAL REDACTION REVIEW PANEL

            In May 2000, the Judicial Conference approved revisions to the
    Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States on Access to
    Financial Disclosure Reports Filed by Judges and Judiciary Employees Under
    the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as Amended, setting forth procedures
    for the redaction of information from financial disclosure reports that could
    endanger the filer or other person if obtained by a member of the public
    hostile to the filer (JCUS-SEP 00, p. 39). The revised regulations provided for
    a Special Redaction Review Panel to hear appeals from filers aggrieved by a
    denial of a request for redaction. The term of the Panel was set by regulation
    to expire on December 31, 2001. Of 17 appeals filed with the Panel before the
    expiration date, only one appeal is still pending. On recommendation of the
    Committee on Financial Disclosure, the Judicial Conference extended the
    term of the Special Redaction Review Panel in order for the Panel to be able
    to complete its work on the remaining 2001 appeal still pending.


                                          17
Judicial Conference of the United States



                        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                As of December 31, 2001, the Committee on Financial Disclosure had
                        received 3,595 financial disclosure reports and certifications for the calendar
                        year 2000, including 1,298 reports and certifications from Supreme Court
                        justices, Article III judges, and judicial officers of special courts; 349 from
                        bankruptcy judges; 524 from magistrate judges; and 1,424 from judicial
                        employees. The Committee reported that the Judicial Conference's authority
                        to redact for security reasons information in a financial disclosure report filed
                        by a judge or judiciary employee was extended until December 31, 2005
                        (Public Law No. 107-126).


             C OMMITTEE ON INFORMATION T ECHNOLOGY 4

                        LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

                                Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612 and on recommendation of the Committee
                        on Information Technology, the Judicial Conference approved a 2002 update
                        to the Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the Federal Judiciary.
                        Funds for the judiciary’s information technology program will be spent in
                        accordance with this plan.


                        DECENTRALIZATION OF LONG-DISTANCE TELEPHONE BILLING

                                The Committee on Information Technology reported to the Conference
                        on a proposal to decentralize long-distance telephone billing in fiscal year
                        2003, giving courts the ability to order, manage, and pay for their long-
                        distance services locally. After discussion, the Conference approved a motion
                        to refer the subject back to the Committee on Information Technology to
                        evaluate whether decentralization is cost-effective considering local telephone
                        rates and personnel time, and to develop standards for local review of long-
                        distance telephone bills.




                    4
                        Previously known as the Committee on Automation and Technology.

                                                               18
                                                                      March 13, 2002



     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Information Technology reported that it had
     amended the five-year courtroom technologies program objectives for new
     courthouses and courthouses undergoing major renovation; reviewed steps
     being taken to implement the recommendations made in a study of the
     lawbooks and library program approved by the Judicial Conference in
     September 2001; discussed how to tailor the interim appropriate Internet use
     policy approved by the Judicial Conference in September 2001 specifically to
     the judiciary, with the expectation that a permanent policy would be presented
     to the Judicial Conference for consideration in September 2002; and received
     updates on a number of information technology projects and issues.


C OMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT A SSIGNMENTS

     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the
     period from July 1, 2001, to December 31, 2001, a total of 76 intercircuit
     assignments, undertaken by 57 Article III judges, were processed and
     recommended by the Committee and approved by the Chief Justice. During
     calendar year 2001, a total of 166 intercircuit assignments were processed and
     approved. In addition, the Chairman aided courts requesting assistance by
     both identifying and obtaining judges willing to take assignments.


C OMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL J UDICIAL R ELATIONS

     TRANSFER OF INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT FUNDS

            Under a 1995 interagency agreement between the Judicial Conference
     and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
     USAID provided funds to the judiciary though the Federal Judicial Center
     Foundation for use in developing and administering international rule-of-law
     programs (see JCUS-SEP 95, p. 69; JCUS-SEP 97, pp. 72-73). The projects
     for which those funds were designated have since been completed, and
     approximately $3000 remains in the FJC Foundation. Since the Judicial




                                           19
Judicial Conference of the United States

                        Conference has endorsed the use of a contract-based mechanism in place of
                        the interagency agreement for funding of future projects (JCUS-SEP 99,
                        p. 64), the Committee recommended, and the Conference approved, the return
                        to USAID of the remaining unexpended funds under the 1995 interagency
                        agreement, thus concluding the agreement.


                        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee reported on the success of the rule-of-law component
                        of the Open World (formerly Russian Leadership) Program in forging ties
                        between members of the United States and Russian judiciaries. The
                        Committee also discussed steps it is taking to implement the Judicial
                        Conference policy encouraging exposure of foreign lawyers and law students
                        at United States law schools to the work of the courts (JCUS-SEP 99, p. 64).
                        The Committee also reported on its involvement in rule-of-law and judicial
                        reform activities relating to Asia and the Pacific, Europe, and Latin America,
                        including participation in legal exchanges with India and Mexico.


            C OMMITTEE ON THE J UDICIAL B RANCH

                        FEDERAL EMPLOYEES’ GROUP LIFE INSURANCE

                                On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
                        Judicial Conference endorsed seeking legislation to require the federal
                        government to pay all the costs associated with active and senior Article III
                        judges’ and congressional members’ Federal Employees’ Group Life
                        Insurance (FEGLI) premiums (i.e., premiums for Basic Life and all
                        appropriate options and any potential tax consequences relating to the payment
                        of those premiums). Currently, all FEGLI enrollees pay two-thirds the cost of
                        basic and accidental death and dismemberment coverage, and all the cost of
                        the three forms of optional FEGLI insurance.5 The Committee noted that
                        enhancing judges’ benefits to make them more competitive with the private
                        sector will help the judiciary to continue to attract highly qualified individuals
                        to the federal bench.


                    5
                     The Director of the Administrative Office is authorized to pay out of
                    appropriated funds any increase imposed after April 24, 1999, in the FEGLI
                    premiums of Article III judges age 65 and above (JCUS-SEP 00, pp. 54-55).

                                                               20
                                                                  March 13, 2002



TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES
JUSTICES AND JUDGES

        Frequent Flyer Mileage. Section 1116 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002, Public Law No. 107-107, enacted on
December 28, 2001, authorizes executive branch employees to use for
personal travel frequent flyer miles or other travel entitlements accrued while
traveling on official government business. The Travel Regulations for United
States Justices and Judges have been silent on this issue. In light of the
change in law with regard to executive branch employees, it was the
consensus of the Committee on the Judicial Branch that the Judicial
Conference should likewise expressly authorize judicial officers (as well as
their family members and dependents) to use for personal travel officially
earned frequent flyer mileage. On recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference approved the following new subparagraph to section A.3. of the
Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, Guide to Judiciary
Policies and Procedures, Vol. III-A, Chapter C-V:

       Travel Promotional Awards–Frequent flyer miles and other
       travel promotional materials awarded at the sole discretion of a
       company and received by a judge in connection with official
       travel may be used at the discretion of that judge. This
       paragraph shall apply with respect to frequent flyer mileage and
       promotional materials received before, on, or after the date of
       adoption.

        Non-Case Related Travel. In September 1999, the Judicial Conference
approved an amendment to the Travel Regulations for United States Justices
and Judges that substantially incorporated, for the purpose of reporting all
non-case related professional travel undertaken by a judge of the United
States, the travel reporting requirements for members of the United States
Senate (JCUS-SEP 99, p. 65). In response to concerns raised by several
judges about the reporting requirements, the Executive Committee requested
that the Judicial Branch Committee revisit the policy (see supra,
“Miscellaneous,” pp. 6-7). In order to give the Committee more time for an
in-depth examination of the issue and to review the reporting requirements,
the Conference approved a motion to extend the deadline from May 15, 2002
to October 1, 2002 for judges to file with their chief judges non-case related
travel reports for calendar year 2001.



                                      21
Judicial Conference of the United States



                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Judicial Branch Committee reported that it continues to focus on
                      securing meaningful salary relief for judges. The Committee authorized the
                      chair to establish several subcommittees that are charged with considering and
                      advising the Committee on long- and short-term issues relating to judges’ pay,
                      including relations with the other branches of government, the bar, and other
                      organizations that support improved judicial salaries. The Committee also
                      determined to continue its efforts to improve the judicial benefits package so
                      that it is competitive with those already widely available throughout the
                      private and public sectors. The Committee resolved to continue working
                      closely with the Freedom Forum’s First Amendment Center on planning and
                      conducting regional programs for judges and journalists. In addition, the
                      Committee established an ad hoc subcommittee that will consider and report
                      to the Committee on new methods to educate the media and the public about
                      the judicial branch and judges.


             C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL R ESOURCES

                      PRO SE LAW CLERKS

                              To assist courts in recruiting and hiring competent and qualified pro se
                      law clerks, and after considering various options, the Committee on Judicial
                      Resources recommended that the Judicial Conference adopt a stabilizing
                      factor for allocating pro se law clerk positions, similar to one that was recently
                      adopted for bankruptcy appellate panel law clerks (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01,
                      pp. 62-63). With a stabilizing factor, the number of allocated positions would
                      only be reduced if the number of prisoner filings does not support the
                      allocated positions in a court under the staffing formula for two years in a row.
                      The Conference approved the use of the stabilizing factor and also approved a
                      procedure whereby, if a court wants to extend a pro se law clerk position
                      beyond the time that the court would be permitted to do so under the staffing
                      formula, it would turn first to its own decentralized funding and then to its
                      circuit’s Temporary Emergency Fund.




                                                             22
                                                                  March 13, 2002



CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT SUPERVISING ATTORNEYS

         In March 1997, the Judicial Conference approved a two-year pilot
project authorizing designated clerks of court to hire an attorney to assist the
court in Criminal Justice Act panel administration and case cost management,
including voucher review (JCUS-MAR 97, p. 24). The pilot was later
extended through March 2002 (JCUS-SEP 98, p. 67). After considering the
views of the Defender Services and the Court Administration and Case
Management Committees, the Committee on Judicial Resources agreed with
both committees that it should recommend that the Conference endorse the
establishment of a CJA supervising attorney position in courts that would find
it of value. The Conference approved the recommendation. The committees
differed, however, on how the position should be funded. After discussion,
the Conference approved the recommendation of the Committee on Judicial
Resources that the position be funded using as the sole source decentralized
Salaries and Expenses account funding.


MEDICAL STANDARDS FOR PROBATION AND
PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICERS AND OFFICER ASSISTANTS

        At the request of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Administrative
Office enlisted the services of the Department of Health and Human Services,
Public Health Service, Law Enforcement Medical Programs to conduct a study
of the physical requirements of the qualification standards for probation and
pretrial services officers and officer assistants. Based on this study and
comments received from chief probation and chief pretrial services officers,
the Committee on Judicial Resources, in consultation with the Committee on
Criminal Law, recommended that the Conference (a) approve an update to the
current medical requirements for these positions; (b) require all final
candidates for these positions to undergo medical examinations by Public
Health Service physicians, using the medical guidelines developed by the
Public Health Service’s Law Enforcement Medical Programs; and (c) permit
the use of the medical guidelines in fitness-for-duty determinations for
incumbents in these positions. As in the past, the final decision on hiring of
new officers or officer assistants, or on the fitness for duty of incumbents,
rests with the individual court. The Conference approved the Committee’s
recommendations.




                                       23
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      _________________________
                      CERTIFIED REALTIME COURT REPORTERS

                              Demand by judges for realtime court reporting, which requires a high
                      level of knowledge, skills, and ability, has been steadily increasing. In order
                      to ensure that federal courts can recruit and retain qualified realtime court
                      reporters and to encourage current federal official court reporters without
                      certification to work toward attaining realtime certification, the Committee
                      recommended that the Judicial Conference adopt a separate salary level for
                      federal official court reporters certified to provide realtime services to judges,
                      attorneys and participants in court proceedings. The new salary level would
                      include a salary increase of an additional ten percent above a court reporter’s
                      basic salary level. The Conference approved the Committee’s
                      recommendation.


                      JUDICIARY LEAVE POLICY

                              Under the judiciary leave policy contained in the Guide to Judiciary
                      Policies and Procedures, Volume I-C, Chapter X, Subchapter 1630.1, circuit
                      executives, federal public defenders, and court unit executives have been
                      permitted to approve their own leave. On recommendation of the Committee
                      on Judicial Resources and after discussion, the Judicial Conference approved
                      amendments to the judiciary leave policy to provide that no individual shall
                      approve his or her own leave and that all circuit executives, federal public
                      defenders, and court unit executives must have their leave approved by the
                      appropriate chief judge or designee. These changes bring the judiciary’s leave
                      policy into conformance with the Leave Act (which covers all judiciary
                      employees other than judges and certain chambers staff), and with regulations
                      promulgated thereunder (5 C.F.R. Part 630). Moreover, the changes are
                      consistent with “good government” principles of accountability and
                      stewardship. Volume I-C, Chapter X, Subchapter 1630.1 of the Guide will be
                      amended as follows (new language is in italics; language to be omitted is
                      struck through):

                               Section E. Responsibilities, 2.a. Leave Approving Court
                               Officials: Approve or deny leave for subordinate employees in
                               a consistent and equitable manner. Wherever possible, it is
                               strongly recommended that no employee sign as the authorizing
                               official for one's own leave requests. No individual shall
                               approve his/her own leave.


                                                              24
                                                                   March 13, 2002

       Section F. Approval Authority, 1. Annual Leave, Sick Leave,
       and Leave Without Pay (LWOP): Requests for approved leave
       (including LWOP) and advanced leave should be in writing.
       Each court and court unit will determine at what level of
       supervision normal leave requests and advanced leave requests
       are to be approved. All circuit executives, federal public
       defenders, and court unit executives must have their leave
       approved by the appropriate chief judge or his/her designee.


RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF LAW CLERKS

        At the request of the Committee on Judicial Resources, the
Administrative Office conducted a study to determine whether federal courts
were experiencing any significant problems in recruiting and retaining law
clerks. Although the study found that there was no serious nationwide
problem in recruiting and retaining law clerks that warrants an increase in
compensation, its results suggested several measures that could be taken to
improve the process. The Committee recommended that the Conference adopt
a resolution to improve the recruitment and retention of federal law clerks and
endorse specific measures that could be implemented in that regard. After
discussion, the Conference tabled this recommendation.


COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

         The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it declined to
approve a request to initiate a drug testing policy for applicants for
employment in district clerks’ offices since courts already have both the legal
and the delegated budget authority to implement such a policy at the local
court level. The Committee also declined to approve a request to raise the
current Court Personnel System (CPS) benchmark for courtroom deputy clerks
to district judges from classification level 27 to 28, noting that each court has
the authority to reclassify any CPS position to reflect greater substantive job
responsibilities. The Committee decided not to make a recommendation to
the Judicial Conference regarding expanding the use of background
investigations and records checks in the courts until proposed guidelines are
provided by the Administrative Office.




                                       25
Judicial Conference of the United States



             C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
             OF THE M AGISTRATE J UDGES S YSTEM

                      CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                              After consideration of the report of the Committee on the
                      Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of
                      the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial
                      councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the following
                      changes in positions, salaries, locations, and arrangements for full-time and
                      part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact are to
                      be effective when appropriated funds are available.

                      FIRST CIRCUIT

                      District of Rhode Island

                               Made no change in the number or location of the magistrate judge
                               positions in the district.

                      SECOND CIRCUIT

                      Northern District of New York

                               Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                               the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      FOURTH CIRCUIT

                      Western District of North Carolina

                               Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      Eastern District of Virginia

                               Redesignated the two magistrate judge positions designated as
                               Norfolk, as Norfolk or Newport News, and the magistrate judge
                               position designated as Newport News, as Norfolk or Newport News.



                                                             26
                                                                  March 13, 2002


FIFTH CIRCUIT

Northern District of Texas

1.     Authorized a full-time magistrate judge position at Abilene;

2.     Upon the appointment of a full-time magistrate judge at Abilene,
       discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Abilene and the
       part-time magistrate judge position at San Angelo; and

3.     Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

SIXTH CIRCUIT

Middle District of Tennessee

       Made no change in the number or location of the magistrate judge
       positions in the district.

EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Eastern District of Missouri

       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

NINTH CIRCUIT

District of Guam

       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Agana to full-time
       status.

Western District of Washington

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Tacoma
       or Seattle; and

2.     Made no other changes in the number, locations, salaries, or
       arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                                      27
Judicial Conference of the United States


                      TENTH CIRCUIT

                      District of Kansas

                      1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Kansas
                               City;

                      2.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Topeka,
                               effective upon the appointment of the new full-time magistrate judge at
                               Kansas City; and

                      3.       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      District of Utah

                      1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Salt
                               Lake City;

                      2.       Upon the appointment of the new full-time magistrate judge at Salt
                               Lake City, decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge
                               position at St. George from Level 2 ($57,961 per annum) to Level 4
                               ($34,776 per annum); and

                      3.       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                               the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

                      Northern District of Florida

                      1.       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Gainesville to
                               full-time status; and

                      2.       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                               the other magistrate judge positions in the district.




                                                              28
                                                                      March 13, 2002




    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee reported that it discussed the allocation of pro se law
    clerk positions and voted unanimously to advise the Judicial Resources
    Committee that it favors changing the current allocation procedure to enable
    courts to offer at least a two-year commitment when hiring pro se law clerks
    (see supra, “Pro Se Law Clerks,” p. 22). Also, the Committee identified the
    following as the four most important long-range planning issues for the
    magistrate judges system: 1) appropriate limits on magistrate judge numbers
    and authority; 2) roles of magistrate judges in court governance; 3) appropriate
    chambers staffing for magistrate judges; and 4) contributions of magistrate
    judges to the quality of justice and the evaluation of full, fair, and effective
    utilization of magistrate judges.


C OMMITTEE TO R EVIEW C IRCUIT
C OUNCIL C ONDUCT AND D ISABILITY O RDERS

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability
    Orders reported that it has undertaken a review and analysis of H.R. 3892
    (107th Congress), legislation to amend the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act,
    28 U.S.C. § 372(c), that was introduced on March 7, 2002.


C OMMITTEE ON R ULES OF P RACTICE AND P ROCEDURE

    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

           In September/October 2001, the Judicial Conference approved
    amendments to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, including
    comprehensive style revisions, and forwarded them to the Supreme Court for
    approval (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, p. 70). Subsequent to the Conference’s
    approval, but prior to Supreme Court action on the proposal, Congress passed
    the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools
    Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA PATRIOT
    ACT), Public Law No. 107-56, which amended Criminal Rules 6 and 41.


                                          29
Judicial Conference of the United States


                      These amendments to Rules 6 and 41 did not incorporate the pending style
                      revisions, and arguably could be superseded by them. To avoid confusion, the
                      Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the Conference
                      proposed technical amendments to Rules 6 and 41 (as revised by the USA
                      PATRIOT ACT) to conform those rules to the style revisions pending before
                      the Supreme Court. The Conference approved these amendments and
                      authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court for its consideration with a
                      recommendation that they be adopted by the Court (and integrated with the
                      changes approved by the Judicial Conference in September/October 2001) and
                      transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure approved for
                      publication proposed amendments to Rule 1005 of the Federal Rules of
                      Bankruptcy Procedure and several Official Bankruptcy Forms. The proposed
                      amendments are consistent with provisions governing disclosure of social
                      security and other personal identification numbers recommended under the
                      recently adopted Judicial Conference policy on privacy and public access to
                      electronic case files (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, pp. 48-50). The Advisory
                      Committees on Appellate, Bankruptcy, Civil, Criminal, and Evidence Rules
                      are reviewing comments from the public submitted on amendments proposed
                      in August 2001 to their respective sets of rules, including a significant number
                      of comments on proposed amendments to Civil Rule 23 (class actions).


             C OMMITTEE ON S ECURITY AND F ACILITIES

                     24-HOUR HEATING AND COOLING

                             On recommendation of the Committee on Security and Facilities, the
                     Judicial Conference endorsed a policy of providing heating and cooling
                     systems 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to control humidity and temperature in
                     court facilities with environmental conditions conducive to growth of fungus or
                     mold, subject to funding availability. Specific standards for implementation of
                     this policy will be determined once a cost analysis is completed.




                                                            30
                                                                        March 13, 2002




    FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

            After consultation with the circuit judicial councils, the Committee on
    Security and Facilities proposed a five-year plan of courthouse construction
    projects for the fiscal years (FYs) 2003-2007. As part of this proposal, the
    Committee recommended that the FY 2003 column of the plan be divided into
    two columns to reflect separately those projects that were unfunded in FY 2002
    or earlier and those projects scheduled for funding in FY 2003, to distinguish
    better these two types of projects. The plan also adopted a new method for
    scoring annexes and separate courts of appeals and bankruptcy facilities that
    recognizes their differences from a district court facility. After discussion, the
    Conference approved the Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan for fiscal years
    2003-2007, as recommended by the Committee.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Security and Facilities considered the security
    implications of publishing the new edition of Justices and Judges of the United
    States Courts in both print and electronic formats and advised the
    Administrative Office Director to continue restriction of distribution, limit
    access within circuit headquarters libraries and prohibit photocopying, exclude
    photographs of judges from the J-Net, and caution judges about publishing
    their photographs in the print version and information about spouses in both
    versions. The Committee agreed with the criteria used by the U.S. Marshals
    Service to determine the level of security necessary at private seminars or
    meetings attended by judges.


F UNDING
           All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
    funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to




                                            31
Judicial Conference of the United States


                      the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                      establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                   Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                   Presiding




                                                            32
                                                                       March 13, 2002

INDEX

Administrative Office, Committee on the, 7

Administrative Office of the U. S. Courts
     background investigations/records checks guidelines, 25
     Census Bureau data, 11
     changes in magistrate judge positions, 26
     Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance, 20
     law clerk recruitment and retention study, 25
     probation and pretrial services officers, medical standards, 23

Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, 13

Appellate rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Appropriations
     budget request adjustment, FY 2003, 6
     defender organization funding, 15
     emergency supplemental appropriation, 6
     spending plan, supplemental funding for security, 6

Automation (see information technology)

Automation and Technology, Committee on (see Committee on Information
Technology)

Bankruptcy judges (see judges, bankruptcy)

Bankruptcy rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Bankruptcy system (see also judges, bankruptcy)
     electronic case filing, model local rules, 10
     official duty stations, 7-8
     places of holding court, 7-8

Bankruptcy System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 7-9




                                            i
Judicial Conference of the United States


Benefits
       Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance, 20
       judiciary leave policy, 24-25

Budget (see appropriations)

Budget, Committee on the, 9

Budget decentralization
      long-distance telephone billing, 18

Case management (see court administration)

Case management/electronic case files (CM/ECF), 11

Census Bureau, 11

Chief judges (see judges, chief)

Children’s Health Act of 2000, 13

Circuit councils (see circuit judicial councils)

Circuit judges (see judges, circuit)

Circuit judicial councils
       changes in magistrate judge positions, 26
       Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 31
       official duty stations of bankruptcy judges, 7-8
       places of holding bankruptcy court, 7-8

Civil rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Clerks of court
       Criminal Justice Act panel administration, 23

CM/ECF (see case management/electronic case files)

Codes of Conduct, Committee on, 9

Community defender organizations (see defender services)


                                             ii
                                                                          March 13, 2002
Compensation
     court reporters, realtime, 24
     Criminal Justice Act panel attorneys, 13-14
     judicial, 22

Competency of counsel, capital cases, 15-17

Conduct and Disability Orders, Committee to Review
Circuit Council, 29

Congress (see also legislation, pending)
      judges’ travel, reporting requirements, 7, 21
      Report on the Jury System in the Federal Courts, 6

Coordinating Group on Financial Disclosure Legislation, 7

Court administration (see also jury administration; staffing resources)
      access to court information, 5-6, 10-11, 11
      case management/electronic case files systems, 11
      CM/ECF, 11
      court reporting, realtime, 24
      criminal case files
              “high-profile” cases, 5-6, 10-11
              judicial opinions/orders, 5-6
              pilot program, 5-6, 10
      decentralization of long-distance telephone billing, 18
      electronic case filing, model local rules, 10
      electronic public access
              criminal case files, 5-6, 10, 10-11
              fees, 11
      leave policy, 24-25
      privacy, 5-6, 10-11

Court Administration and Case Management, Committee on, 5-6, 10-12, 23

Court reporters
      realtime, compensation, 24

Court reporting
      realtime, 24

Courthouses (see space and facilities)


                                           iii
Judicial Conference of the United States


Courts of appeals (see also court administration)
      rules of practice and procedure, 30

Criminal Justice Act (CJA) (see also defender services; federal defenders)
      Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act, 14
      panel attorney administration, 12, 15, 23
      panel attorney compensation, 13-14
      supervising attorney position, 12, 15, 23

Criminal law (see also probation and pretrial services system)
      competency of counsel, capital cases, 15-17
      electronic public access to court information, 5-6, 10-11, 11
      juvenile delinquency
              post-imprisonment supervision, 12-13
              probation, sanctions for violation, 12-13
              sentences, 12-13
      privacy, criminal case files
              “high-profile” cases, 5-6, 10-11
              judicial opinions/orders, 5-6
              pilot program, 5-6, 10
      rules of practice and procedure, 29-30
      Speedy Trial Act, technical amendments, 13

Criminal Law, Committee on, 12-13, 23

Criminal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Defender services (see also Criminal Justice Act)
      community defender organization grant and conditions agreement, 14-15
      competency of counsel, capital cases, 15-17
      Criminal Justice Act supervising attorney position, 12, 15, 23
      defender organization funding, 15
      leave policy, public defenders, 24-25
      physical fitness centers, defender personnel, 14

Defender Services, Committee on, 5, 13-15, 23

Department of Health and Human Services
      Public Health Service, Law Enforcement Medical Programs, 23

Department of Justice, 13


                                           iv
                                                                             March 13, 2002
Design Guide (see U.S. Courts Design Guide)

District courts (see also bankruptcy system; court administration; jury administration,
magistrate judges system; probation and pretrial services system)
       changes in magistrate judge positions, 26-28
       Criminal Justice Act supervising attorney position, 12, 15, 23
       electronic case filing, model local rules, 10
       electronic public access
               criminal case files, 5-6, 10, 10-11
               fees, 11
               Internet, 10-11, 11
       jury wheel data, 11
       Model Local District Court Rules for Electronic Case Filing, 10
       panel attorney administration, 23
       pro se law clerk allocation, 22, 29

District judges (see judges, district)

DNA/competency of counsel legislation, 15-17

Electronic case filing (see also electronic public access)
       model local rules, 10

Electronic public access (EPA) (see also Internet)
       case management/electronic case files (CM/ECF), 11
       criminal cases
               “high-profile,” 5-6, 10-11
               judicial opinions/orders, 5-6
               pilot program, 5-6, 10
       Electronic Public Access Fee Schedule, 11
       fees, 11
       Internet, 10-11, 11
       privacy policy, 5-6, 10-11

Employment Cost Index (ECI), 14

Executive branch
      Census Bureau, 11
      Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Law
             Enforcement Medical Programs, 23




                                             v
Judicial Conference of the United States



Executive branch (continued)
       Department of Justice, 13
       Frequent flyer mileage, 21
       United States Agency for International Development, 19

Executive Committee, 4-7, 10-11, 21

Federal defenders (see also defender services)
      leave policy, public defenders, 24-25
      physical fitness centers, 14

Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance, 20

Federal Judicial Center, 4, 9, 10, 19

Federal Judicial Center Foundation, 19

Federal public defender organizations (see defender services)

Federal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Federal-State Jurisdiction, Committee on, 15-17

Federal-state relations
      competency of counsel legislation, 15-17
      Subcommittee on Federal-State Interaction, 17

Fees
        electronic access, 11
        Electronic Public Access Fee Schedule, 11

Financial Disclosure, Committee on, 17-18

Financial disclosure reports
      Coordinating Group on Financial Disclosure Legislation, 7
      filed, 18
      redaction authority, 7, 17
      Special Redaction Review Panel, 17

Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 31


                                                 vi
                                                                            March 13, 2002

Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, 14, 21, 24

Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal
Justice Act and Related Statutes, 14

Habeas corpus, capital cases, 15-17

Hinojosa, Ricardo, 4

Information technology (see also electronic public access, Internet)
      case management/electronic case files (CM/ECF), 11
      fees, electronic access to court information, 11
      Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the Federal Judiciary, 18

Information Technology, Committee on, 5, 18-19

Intercircuit assignments, 19

Intercircuit Assignments, Committee on, 19

International Judicial Relations, Committee on, 19-20

Internet (see also information technology)
       access fee, 11
       public access to court information, 5-6, 10-11, 11

Johnson, Sterling, Jr., 4

Judges, Article III (see also judges, federal)
      Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance, 20
      financial disclosure reports, 18
      intercircuit assignments, 19

Judges, bankruptcy (see also bankruptcy system; judges, chief; judges, federal)
      official duty stations, 7-8

Judges, chief
      leave approval, 24-25
      non-case related travel reports, 21

Judges, circuit (see judges, Article III; judges, chief; judges, federal)


                                                 vii
Judicial Conference of the United States



Judges, Court of Federal Claims (see judges, federal)

Judges, district (see judges, Article III; judges, chief; judges, federal)

Judges, federal (see also judges, Article III; judges, chief; judges, magistrate)
      compensation, 22
      financial disclosure reports, 7, 18
      frequent flyer mileage, 21
      travel reimbursement rate, 6
      travel reporting requirements, 7, 21

Judges, magistrate (see also judges, federal; magistrate judges system)
      changes in positions, 26-28

Judicial Branch, Committee on the, 7, 20-22

Judicial Conference of the United States
       committee five-year jurisdictional review, 4-5
       committee jurisdictional statements, 4-5
       committees’ self-evaluations, 4-5
       funding of actions, 31-32
       jurisdiction of committees, 4-5

Judicial Resources, Committee on, 5, 12, 22-25, 29

Jurisdiction of Judicial Conference committees (see Judicial Conference of the United States)

Jury administration
      Census Bureau data, 11
      jury wheel samplings, 11
      Report on the Jury System in the Federal Courts, 6
      Report on the Operation of the Jury Selection Plan, Form JS-12, 11

Justices and Judges of the United States Courts, 31

Kendall, Joe, 4

Law clerks
      pro se, 22, 29
      recruitment and retention, 25
Leave Act, 24

                                                 viii
                                                                       March 13, 2002



Legislation, pending (107th Congress)
       competency of counsel legislation, 15-17
       Innocence Protection Act of 2001 (S. 486 and H.R. 912), 15-17

Legislative branch (see Congress)

Local rules
       model electronic public access, 10

Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the Federal Judiciary, 18

Magistrate judges (see judges, magistrate)

Magistrate judges system (see also judges, magistrate)
      changes in positions, 26-28

Magistrate Judges System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 5, 26-29

Model Local District Court Rules for Electronic Case Filing, 10

Narcotic Addict Rehabilitation Act, 13

National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002, 21

Open World Program, 20

Panel attorneys (see Criminal Justice Act)

Personnel, judiciary (see also staffing resources)
      financial disclosure reports, 18
      leave policy
              circuit executives, 24-25
              court unit executives, 24-25
              federal public defenders, 24-25
      physical fitness centers, 14
      probation/pretrial services officers and assistants
              fitness-for-duty determinations, 23
              qualification standards, 23

Physical fitness centers, 14

                                                ix
Judicial Conference of the United States




Pretrial services system (see probation and pretrial services system)

Privacy
      criminal cases, electronic access
              “high-profile” cases, 5-6, 10-11
              judicial opinions and orders, 5-6
              pilot program, 5-6, 10
      policy, 5-6, 10, 10-11

Probation and pretrial services officers (see also personnel, judiciary)
      fitness for duty, 23
      medical guidelines, 23
      qualification standards, physical requirements, 23

Probation and pretrial services system (see also probation and pretrial services officers)
      officer assistants, medical requirements, 23

Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER), 10

Public Health Service, 23

Records (see also electronic public access)
      criminal case files
              “high-profile” cases, 5-6, 10-11
              judicial opinions/orders, 5-6
              pilot program, 5-6, 10
      electronic access, 5-6, 10-11
      electronic filing, model local rules, 10
      privacy, 5-6, 10-11
      Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER), 10
      unsealed civil documents, 10

Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States on Access to Financial
Disclosure Reports Filed by Judges and Judiciary Employees Under the Ethics in
Government Act of 1978, as Amended, 17

Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Federal Habeas Corpus in Capital Cases (Powell
Committee Report), 16

Report on the Jury System in the Federal Courts, 6

                                                  x
                                                                        March 13, 2002



Rule of law programs, 19-20

Rules of practice and procedure
       appellate rules, 30
       bankruptcy rules, 30
       civil rules, 30
       criminal rules, 29-30
       evidence rules, 30
       model local rules, electronic case filing, 10

Rules of Practice and Procedure, Committee on, 29-30

Salaries (see compensation)

Security
       anthrax contamination, 6
       biological/chemical threats, 6
       financial disclosure reports, authority to redact, 7, 17
       supplemental funding, 6

Security and Facilities, Committee on, 5, 6, 30-31

Space and facilities
       Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 31
       heating and cooling systems, 30

Special Redaction Review Panel, 17

Speedy Trial Act, 13

Staffing formulae (see staffing resources)

Staffing resources (see also personnel, judiciary)
       Criminal Justice Act supervising attorney position, 12, 15, 23
       law clerk recruitment and retention, 25
       pro se law clerks, 22, 29

Subcommittee on Federal-State Interaction, 17


Subcommittee on Mass Torts, 17

                                                 xi
Judicial Conference of the United States




Supporting personnel (see personnel, judiciary)

Technology (see information technology)

Telephone, long-distance billing, 18

Temporary Emergency Fund, 22

Travel, judges’
       alternative subsistence rate, 6
       frequent flyer mileage, 21
       reporting non-case related travel, 7, 21

Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, 21

United States Agency for International Development (USAID), 19-20

United States Sentencing Commission, 4

United States v. R.L.C., 12

Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept
and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA PATRIOT ACT), 29-30

U.S. Courts Design Guide, 6




                                                  xii
