R EPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE J UDICIAL C ONFERENCE
OF THE U NITED S TATES




SEPTEMBER 24, 2002
WASHINGTON, D.C.
R EPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE J UDICIAL C ONFERENCE
OF THE U NITED S TATES




SEPTEMBER 24, 2002
WASHINGTON, D.C.




JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES
CHIEF JUSTICE WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST,
PRESIDING
LEONIDAS RALPH MECHAM, SECRETARY
R EPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE J UDICIAL C ONFERENCE
OF THE U NITED S TATES


September 24, 2002


              The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
      D.C., on September 24, 2002, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
      United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
      the following members of the Conference were present:

             First Circuit:

                         Chief Judge Michael Boudin
                         Chief Judge D. Brock Hornby,
                                District of Maine

             Second Circuit:

                         Chief Judge John M. Walker, Jr.
                         Chief Judge Frederick J. Scullin, Jr.,
                                Northern District of New York

             Third Circuit:

                         Chief Judge Edward R. Becker
                         Chief Judge Sue L. Robinson,
                                District of Delaware

             Fourth Circuit:

                         Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III
                         Chief Judge Charles H. Haden II,
                                Southern District of West Virginia

             Fifth Circuit:

                         Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King
                         Judge Martin L. C. Feldman,
                                Eastern District of Louisiana
Judicial Conference of the United States

                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Boyce F. Martin, Jr.
                                           Chief Judge Lawrence P. Zatkoff,
                                                  Eastern District of Michigan

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel M. Flaum
                                           Judge Marvin E. Aspen,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge David R. Hansen
                                           Chief Judge James M. Rosenbaum,
                                                  District of Minnesota

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary M. Schroeder
                                           Judge Judith N. Keep,
                                                  Southern District of California

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Deanell R. Tacha
                                           Chief Judge Frank Howell Seay,
                                                  Eastern District of Oklahoma

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge J. L. Edmondson
                                           Chief Judge Charles R. Butler, Jr.,
                                                  Southern District of Alabama

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Douglas H. Ginsburg
                                           Chief Judge Thomas F. Hogan,
                                                  District of Columbia


                                                               34
                                                            September 24, 2002

       Federal Circuit:

                  Chief Judge Haldane Robert Mayer

       Court of International Trade:

                  Chief Judge Gregory W. Carman

        Circuit Judges Edward E. Carnes, Dennis G. Jacobs, Michael J.
Melloy, Jane R. Roth, and Anthony J. Scirica, and District Judges Lourdes G.
Baird, John G. Heyburn II, David F. Levi, John W. Lungstrum, Edwin L.
Nelson, Patti B. Saris, Harvey E. Schlesinger, and Frederick P. Stamp, Jr.
attended the Conference session. Betsy Shumaker of the Tenth Circuit
represented the circuit executives.

        Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of
the United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did
Clarence A. Lee, Jr., Associate Director for Management and Operations;
William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General Counsel; Karen K.
Siegel, Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat;
Michael W. Blommer, Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; David Sellers,
Assistant Director, Public Affairs; and Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant
Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat. Judge Fern M. Smith and
Russell Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center,
were in attendance at the session of the Conference, as was Judge Diana
Murphy, Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission. Sally Rider,
Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice; Scott Harris, Supreme Court
Legal Counsel; and the 2002-2003 Judicial Fellows also observed the
Conference session.

        Senators Patrick J. Leahy, Orrin G. Hatch, and Jeff Sessions and
Representatives F. James Sensenbrenner and Howard Coble spoke on matters
pending in Congress of interest to the Conference. Attorney General John
Ashcroft addressed the Conference on matters of mutual interest to the
judiciary and the Department of Justice.




                                       35
Judicial Conference of the United States


             R EPORTS
                             Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                     courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO), and Judge
                     Smith spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs.


             E XECUTIVE C OMMITTEE

                     RESOLUTIONS

                            The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
                     Committee to adopt the following resolution in recognition of the substantial
                     contributions made by Judicial Conference committee chairs who will
                     complete their terms of service in 2002:

                                     The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
                              with appreciation, respect and admiration the following judicial
                              officers:

                                           HONORABLE CHARLES H. HADEN II
                                                 Executive Committee

                                           HONORABLE ROBIN J. CAUTHRON
                                             Committee on Defender Services

                                            HONORABLE MILTON I. SHADUR
                                           Advisory Committee on Rules of Evidence

                              Appointed as committee chairs by Chief Justice William H.
                              Rehnquist, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role in
                              the administration of the federal court system. These judges
                              served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference
                              committees while, at the same time, continuing to perform their
                              duties as judges in their own courts. They have set a standard of
                              skilled leadership and earned our deep respect and sincere
                              gratitude for their innumerable contributions. We acknowledge
                              with appreciation their commitment and dedicated service to the
                              Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.




                                                             36
                                                            September 24, 2002



MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

    The Executive Committee—

•   On recommendation of the Court Administration and Case
    Management Committee, agreed to endorse S. 848 (107th Congress), the
    Social Security Number Misuse Prevention Act of 2001, provided
    certain amendments affecting court records are made to the legislation;

•   Approved minor revisions to The Judicial Conference of the United
    States and its Committees, a document outlining Conference and
    committee practices and procedures;

•   Agreed to a request from the Security and Facilities Committee to
    remove the word “large” from paragraph six of the mail handling policy
    adopted by the Judicial Conference by mail ballot in July 2002 (see
    infra, “Mail Handling Policy,” pp. 61-63) that referred to funding for
    design and construction of mail facilities in “large” court-only
    buildings;

•   Approved a request of the Committee on Rules of Practice and
    Procedure that congressional leaders be advised of an inadvertent
    omission of one sentence in the “style” revisions to the Federal Rules of
    Criminal Procedure that had previously been approved by the
    Conference (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, p. 70) and the Supreme Court and
    transmitted to Congress in April 2002, and that Congress be asked to
    enact legislation to correct the error;

•   Approved a recommendation of the Court Administration and Case
    Management Committee that the Conference (a) seek legislation to
    designate Plattsburgh, New York, as a place of holding court in the
    Northern District of New York and St. Clairsville, Ohio, as a place of
    holding court in the Southern District of Ohio; and (b) support
    legislation authorizing the Southern District of Iowa to conduct
    proceedings at the federal courthouse in Rock Island, Illinois, during the
    renovation of the Southern District of Iowa’s courthouse in Davenport;

•   Approved proposed interim financial plans for fiscal year 2003 for the
    Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Fees of Jurors and
    Commissioners, and Court Security accounts, and authorized the
    Director of the Administrative Office to make technical and other

                                   37
Judicial Conference of the United States

                              adjustments as deemed necessary. The Executive Committee will be
                              consulted as necessary concerning significant changes in the financial
                              plans that might be required once a full-year appropriation is enacted;
                              and

                     •        Approved the concept of an off-site court operations support center;
                              authorized the release to Congress of a report entitled, “Court
                              Operations Support Center and Continuity of Operations Housing
                              Plan,” which addresses the feasibility, requirements, costs, and benefits
                              of establishing an off-site facility; and approved funding for fiscal year
                              2003 start-up costs for the center.


             C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATIVE O FFICE

                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it reviewed
                     the progress of several major initiatives, including the AO’s efforts to obtain
                     legislative and spending authority for the AO Director to provide benefits for
                     judges and judicial branch employees, the AO’s support of continuity of
                     operations planning in the courts and a study of the need for an off-site support
                     center to ensure continuation of core court support operations in the event of an
                     emergency affecting the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building in
                     Washington, D.C., and the judiciary’s management oversight and internal
                     controls initiatives. The Committee considered the results of a review the AO
                     conducted of its communications with the courts and noted several procedural
                     improvements made in response to feedback garnered from advisory groups.
                     The Committee endorsed proposed changes to the Administrative Office’s
                     advisory group structure and reviewed and provided comments on a draft
                     publication for judges regarding travel regulations and procedures that the AO
                     is developing in response to the Committee’s request.




                                                              38
                                                                     September 24, 2002


C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
OF THE B ANKRUPTCY S YSTEM

    BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

             New Judgeships. The Judicial Conference is required by 28 U.S.C.
    § 152(b)(2) to submit recommendations for new bankruptcy judgeships to
    Congress, which establishes the number of such judgeships for each judicial
    district. In March 1991, the Conference adopted a policy that provides for a
    national survey of judgeship needs every two years and establishes criteria for
    evaluating requests for additional bankruptcy judgeships (JCUS-MAR 91,
    12-13). Based on the 2002 biennial survey of judgeship needs, the Committee
    on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System recommended that the Judicial
    Conference transmit to Congress proposed legislation to convert two existing
    temporary bankruptcy judgeship positions to permanent status, extend for an
    additional five-year period the temporary bankruptcy judgeships in four
    districts, create 36 additional bankruptcy judgeships, and convert the
    bankruptcy judgeship shared by the Middle and Southern Districts of Georgia
    to a full-time position for the Middle District of Georgia. Congress has not
    acted on the additional judgeships requested by the Conference since 1992
    despite a dramatic rise in bankruptcy filings and judicial workloads. The
    Conference approved the Committee’s recommendations, which are in lieu of
    previous Conference recommendations.

            Continuing Need for Existing Judgeships. In accordance with
    28 U S.C. § 152(b)(3), the Judicial Conference conducts a comprehensive
    review of all judicial districts every other year to assess the continuing need for
    all authorized bankruptcy judgeships. By December 31 of each even-numbered
    year, the Conference reports its recommendations to Congress for the
    elimination of any authorized bankruptcy judgeship position that can be
    eliminated when a vacancy exists by reason of resignation, retirement, removal
    or death. As a result of the 2002 continuing need survey, the Bankruptcy
    Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference agreed, that the
    Conference take the following actions:

    a.     Recommend to Congress that no bankruptcy judgeship be statutorily
           eliminated; and

    b.     Advise the Eighth and Ninth Circuit Judicial Councils to consider not
           filling vacancies in the Districts of South Dakota and Alaska,


                                            39
Judicial Conference of the United States

                              respectively, that currently exist or may occur by reason of resignation,
                              retirement, removal, or death, until there is a demonstrated need to do
                              so.


                     VENUE IN BANKRUPTCY CASES

                             In order to eliminate existing uncertainty in the case law and help
                     address concerns about forum shopping in bankruptcy cases and proceedings,
                     the Bankruptcy Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference seek an
                     amendment of the bankruptcy venue statute (28 U.S.C. § 1412) to allow a
                     judge to raise an issue of venue and to transfer a bankruptcy case sua sponte.
                     The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                     OFFICIAL DUTY STATIONS

                             On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, and in accordance
                     with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(1), the Judicial Conference approved the request of
                     the Eastern District of New York and the Second Circuit Judicial Council to
                     designate the official duty station for the judge selected to replace Bankruptcy
                     Judge Dorothy Eisenberg in the Eastern District of New York as “Brooklyn or
                     Central Islip,” and the request of the District of New Jersey and the Third
                     Circuit Judicial Council to transfer the official duty station of Bankruptcy
                     Judge Morris Stern from Trenton to Newark in the District of New Jersey.


                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Bankruptcy Committee reported on the steps being taken to finalize
                     a report of its mass tort litigation subcommittee on the treatment of mass future
                     claims in bankruptcy. In addition, the Committee, conscious of the need for
                     fiscal restraint, recommended that funding in fiscal year 2004 for the areas
                     within its program oversight remain at the adjusted current services levels for
                     fiscal year 2003. At the request of the Budget Committee’s Economy
                     Subcommittee, the Bankruptcy Committee also discussed the sharing of
                     administrative functions by the courts, information technology investments and
                     staffing, and development of a new case-weighted formula for evaluating
                     additional bankruptcy judgeship requests. The Committee received briefings
                     on a wide range of topics, including inter-court relationships, bankruptcy judge
                     reappointment issues, and workforce diversity.


                                                              40
                                                                   September 24, 2002


C OMMITTEE ON THE B UDGET

    FISCAL YEAR 2004 BUDGET REQUEST

            In light of the congressional budget environment, the Budget
    Committee recommended a fiscal year 2004 budget request lower than the
    funding levels proposed by the program committees. The Judicial Conference
    approved the budget request subject to amendments necessary as a result of
    new legislation, actions of the Judicial Conference, or other reasons the
    Executive Committee considers necessary and appropriate.1 The approved
    budget request includes funding for a panel attorney compensation rate of
    $113 per hour for non-capital representations, which was subsequently a
    subject for discussion at this Conference session in relation to a recommenda-
    tion by the Defender Services Committee that the rate be increased to $120
    per hour in fiscal year 2004. The Conference declined to adopt the Defender
    Services Committee’s recommendation (see infra, “Panel Attorney
    Compensation,” pp. 44-45).


    OFFICIAL ACCOUNTING SYSTEM FOR THE COURTS

            On recommendation of the Budget Committee, the Judicial Conference
    endorsed the Financial Accounting System for Tomorrow (FAS4T) as the
    official accounting system of the courts necessary to support the
    decentralization of various budget and financial management authorities.
    FAS4T is a commercial, off-the-shelf financial application that has been tested
    and certified by the Joint Financial Management Improvement Program, a
    cooperative effort by the Department of the Treasury, the General Accounting
    Office, the Office of Management and Budget, and the Office of Personnel
    Management, to improve financial management practices in the government.
    The implementation of a single, standard financial system in all courts will
    better enable the judiciary to meet its stewardship responsibilities in a cost-
    effective manner.




   1
    Subsequent to the Conference session, by mail ballot concluded on October 9,
   2002, the Executive Committee approved technical adjustments to the fiscal
   year 2004 budget request.

                                          41
Judicial Conference of the United States



                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Budget Committee reported that it unanimously agreed to make
                     recommendations to various Judicial Conference committees pertaining to
                     short- and long-term planning and economy issues. The Committee
                     recommended that consideration be given to, among other things, identifying
                     all costs associated with information technology investments; advancing the
                     schedule for reviewing the court support staffing formulae; and sharing of
                     administrative functions such as information technology support, human
                     resources management, financial management, and procurement among court
                     units.


             C OMMITTEE ON C ODES OF C ONDUCT

                     CAPITAL GAINS ROLLOVER LEGISLATION

                             The Committee on Codes of Conduct, in consultation with the
                     Committee on the Judicial Branch, recommended that the Judicial Conference
                     seek legislation extending to the judicial branch the capital gains rollover
                     treatment available to the executive branch by virtue of Internal Revenue Code
                     § 1043. That provision allows for the rollover of investments without an
                     immediate recognition of taxable capital gains where the sale was undertaken
                     to comply with conflict-of-interest requirements. Such a provision would
                     provide financial relief to judges willing to divest financial holdings in order to
                     avoid disqualification and resulting disruptions of court dockets. The
                     Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             Since its last report to the Judicial Conference in March 2002, the
                     Committee on Codes of Conduct received 36 new written inquiries and issued
                     32 written advisory responses. During this period, the average response time
                     for these requests was 16 days. The Chairman received and responded to 27
                     telephone inquiries. In addition, individual committee members responded to
                     120 inquiries from colleagues.




                                                             42
                                                                     September 24, 2002


C OMMITTEE ON C OURT A DMINISTRATION
AND C ASE M ANAGEMENT

    ELECTRONIC PUBLIC ACCESS FEES

            The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
    reviewed the way in which courts have implemented the limited exemptions
    allowed by the Judicial Conference from the collection of electronic public
    access (EPA) fees. The Committee found a wide variation in the application of
    these exemptions. Noting that such variation detracted from what the
    Conference intended to be a national policy, the Committee recommended, and
    the Conference approved, the following policies with regard to the EPA fee
    schedule:

    a.     The EPA fee schedule and its limited exemptions should be applied in a
           similar manner in all courts, rather than through individual court
           practices and policies; and

    b.     Review of a court’s compliance with the EPA fee schedule and its
           exemptions should be included in the court financial audit process.

    Implementation guidelines will be developed for the Conference’s approval.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
    reported that it examined the issue of workforce diversity in court clerks’
    offices and unanimously agreed that achieving and maintaining workforce
    diversity be identified as a strategic long-range issue for the federal courts. The
    Committee also reported that it was briefed on a number of other issues,
    including the creation of the position of Court of Appeals Emergency
    Preparedness Officer; an overview of the operation of the Court Personnel
    System; a review of the principles of the judiciary’s decentralized budgeting; a
    report on videconferencing in the federal courts; and an update on the Federal
    Judicial Center’s ongoing major initiatives.




                                            43
Judicial Conference of the United States


             C OMMITTEE ON C RIMINAL L AW

                     OFFICER SAFETY PROGRAM

                             On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial
                     Conference approved a “use of force continuum” to govern self-defense
                     responses by probation and pretrial services officers and authorized the
                     Director of the Administrative Office to develop an officer safety program to
                     include, among other things, implementing policies regarding the use of force,
                     officer safety instructor certification, resource materials, and training. The use
                     of force continuum, which will provide the general structure for the safety
                     program, is a set of defensive options consisting of five progressive levels
                     governing an officer’s response to threatening situations.


                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it received information
                     on various court practices regarding the content and format of presentence
                     investigation reports. The Committee also was informed about the practices of
                     the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) with regard to the redisclosure of such
                     reports and agreed to consult with representatives from the AO, the Department
                     of Justice (including BOP), the United States Sentencing Commission, and
                     others to examine concerns raised. The Committee was updated on a strategic
                     assessment of the probation and pretrial services system, including the results
                     of a recently completed survey of chief probation and pretrial services offices.
                     The Committee unanimously agreed to adopt achieving and maintaining
                     workforce diversity as a Committee long-range strategic issue and to
                     recommend that workforce diversity be adopted as a long-range, crosscutting,
                     strategic issue for the judiciary.


             C OMMITTEE ON D EFENDER S ERVICES

                     PANEL ATTORNEY COMPENSATION

                            As noted above, the fiscal year 2004 budget request recommended by
                     the Budget Committee and approved at this session by the Conference included
                     funding for a panel attorney compensation rate of $113 per hour for non-capital
                     representations (see supra, “Fiscal Year 2004 Budget Request,” p. 41), the
                     same rate sought in fiscal years 2002 and 2003. The Committee on Defender

                                                             44
                                                                 September 24, 2002

Services recommended that the Conference include funding in the fiscal year
2004 budget request to increase the panel attorney rate to $120 per hour, which
reflects a $75 per hour base rate of pay plus cumulative annual federal pay
Employment Cost Index adjustments authorized by Congress and approved by
the Conference but never fully funded. After discussion, the Conference
declined to approve the Defender Services Committee’s recommendation of
$120 per hour.


GRANT AND CONDITIONS AGREEMENT

        The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Committee
on Defender Services to revise Clause 8 (Audits) of the Grant and Conditions
Agreement with Community Defender Organizations (CDOs) to delete
language that permits CDOs to contract for local accounting services with the
contract auditor selected and paid for by the Administrative Office to perform
an annual audit of the grantee’s financial activities. This modification is
consistent with newly revised auditor independence requirements under the
Government Auditing Standards. On recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference also amended Clause 8 to add payroll, disbursing, and record-
keeping services to the list of services for which CDOs can contract with local
accountants. This modification makes explicit that CDOs may use local
accountants for such activities, as they have done in the past. The new clause
reads as follows (new language in bold italics and deleted language in
strikeout):

       The grantee may contract with local accountants or with the
       Auditor, for any accounting and financial services necessary for
       the operation of its office, including, but not limited to, the
       preparation of all required federal and state tax returns,; payroll,
       disbursing, and record-keeping services; and any additional
       annual audit reports required by the Board of Directors that do
       not duplicate the national contract audit. Notwithstanding the
       foregoing, a grantee may use grant funds to contract with an
       expert for the purpose of responding to a finding of the Auditor
       in the annual audit when authorized in advance to do so by the
       Defender Services Division.




                                       45
Judicial Conference of the United States



                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on Defender Services reported that, under its delegated
                     authority from the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR 89, pp. 16-17), it
                     approved fiscal year 2003 budgets for 73 federal defender organizations
                     totaling $329,227,600. The Committee also reported that, consistent with
                     Judicial Conference policy (JCUS-MAR 95, pp. 18-19), it recommended
                     seeking an immediate amendment to the Criminal Justice Act to raise the case
                     compensation maximums for panel attorney representations, and the
                     Administrative Office transmitted to Congress proposed legislation including
                     such an amendment. The Committee reaffirmed its position that developing
                     and sustaining workforce diversity should be recognized as a long-range
                     planning strategic issue for the Defender Services program. The Committee
                     was briefed on other significant long-range planning initiatives for the
                     Defender Services program, including a joint state/federal defender conference
                     on quality of criminal defense representation.


             C OMMITTEE ON F EDERAL -S TATE J URISDICTION

                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it has
                     continued to explore alternative approaches to legislation pending before
                     Congress to address class action litigation in the federal and state courts. The
                     Committee declined to endorse a recommendation, forwarded to it by the
                     Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure for its consideration, relating to
                     the use of minimal diversity in such actions, but recognized the importance of
                     continuing to explore less intrusive and less burdensome means, both statutory
                     and non-statutory, to redress the problems presented by overlapping and
                     competing class actions. In addition, the Committee endorsed five proposals to
                     foster state-federal judicial educational opportunities, including the creation of
                     a website reflecting state-federal judicial education programs. As part of its
                     jurisdictional improvements project, the Committee also continued its review
                     of several proposals to reform the standards for, and process of, removal and
                     remand.




                                                            46
                                                                    September 24, 2002


C OMMITTEE ON F INANCIAL D ISCLOSURE

    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of July 1, 2002,
    it had received 3,578 financial disclosure reports and certifications for the
    calendar year 2001, including 1,243 reports and certifications from Supreme
    Court justices, Article III judges, and judicial officers of special courts; 339
    from bankruptcy judges; 512 from magistrate judges; and 1,484 from judicial
    employees. The Committee continued its efforts to ensure that all filers are
    aware of the obligation to file a report that accurately reflects the information
    required by the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. §§ 101-111).
    Members of the Committee participated in a series of orientation seminars run
    by the Federal Judicial Center for newly appointed district judges and
    workshops run by the Administrative Office for judges’ secretaries and judicial
    assistants. In addition, the Committee developed a one-hour presentation on
    the ten most common errors that filers make in completing the financial
    disclosure report, which was aired on the Federal Judiciary Television
    Network.


C OMMITTEE ON INFORMATION T ECHNOLOGY

    MODEL USE POLICY

             In September 2001, the Judicial Conference adopted, on an interim
    basis, a policy establishing a national minimum standard for appropriate use of
    government office equipment, including information technology. The
    Conference adopted the policy, based on one developed for use in the executive
    branch, with the understanding that the Committee on Information Technology
    would tailor it for the judiciary. Individual courts retained the right to impose
    or maintain more restrictive policies. The Conference also reaffirmed that
    individual courts have responsibility to enforce appropriate use policies and
    directed the Administrative Office, as part of its regular audit process, to
    examine and comment upon the adequacy of the courts’ enforcement methods
    (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, pp. 43-44). At this session, on recommendation of the
    Committee, which proposed modifications to the interim policy to make it
    specific to the judiciary, the Conference approved on a permanent basis the
    policy governing personal use of government office equipment, including




                                           47
Judicial Conference of the United States

                     information technology. The tailored policy does not vary substantively from
                     the interim policy.


                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on Information Technology reported that it endorsed
                     the engagement of the National Security Agency to conduct an assessment of
                     the adequacy of security measures for the judiciary’s data communications
                     network, determined that no movement should be made to decentralize funding
                     for long-distance telephone services at this time, and received the results of a
                     preliminary analysis on how the courts expend decentralized funds for
                     information technology. The Committee also endorsed resource requirements
                     and priorities for the programs under its jurisdiction and received updates on a
                     number of information technology projects and issues.


            C OMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT A SSIGNMENTS

                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the
                     period from January 1, 2002, to June 30, 2002, a total of 108 intercircuit
                     assignments, undertaken by 75 Article III judges, were processed and
                     recommended by the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments and approved by
                     the Chief Justice. In addition, the Committee aided courts requesting
                     assistance by both identifying and obtaining judges willing to take assignments.
                     The Committee also reported on changes to the intercircuit assignment process
                     that would increase efficiency and timely processing of requests.


             C OMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL J UDICIAL R ELATIONS

                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                            The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                     involvement in rule-of-law and judicial reform activities throughout the world,
                     highlighting those in the Russian Federation, Rwanda, China, Venezuela,
                     Romania, and Algeria. Judge Michael Mihm of the Central District of Illinois
                     and Judge Lloyd George of the District of Nevada were recognized by the


                                                           48
                                                                   September 24, 2002

    Council of Judges of the Russian Federation for the assistance they have
    provided in the ten years since the Council’s establishment.


C OMMITTEE ON THE J UDICIAL B RANCH

    TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

            On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
    Judicial Conference approved an amendment to the Travel Regulations for
    United States Justices and Judges to allow judges to claim reimbursement for
    personal luggage handling as a miscellaneous transportation expense.
    Previously, judges could claim reimbursement for tips for transporting personal
    luggage only where the judge claimed reimbursement for actual expenses of
    subsistence.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it continues to
    concentrate much of its attention on the critical question of judicial
    compensation. The Committee prepared documentation to submit to the
    Second National Commission on the Public Service (the “Volcker
    Commission”) regarding the judiciary’s compensation needs, focusing upon the
    significant erosion in the purchasing power of judicial salaries, the upward
    trajectory in the salaries of other legal professionals, and trends in judicial
    retirements and resignations. The Committee also devoted considerable time
    and attention to the status of the judiciary’s benefits initiative, the Judicial
    Survivors’ Annuities System, and the Federal Employees Health Benefits
    Program.


C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL R ESOURCES

    PRO SE LAW CLERKS

            The Judicial Conference, at its March 2002 session, approved a
    procedure whereby if a court wants to extend a pro se law clerk position
    beyond the time that it would be permitted to do so under the staffing formula,
    the court would turn first to its own decentralized funding and then to its
    circuit’s Temporary Emergency Fund (JCUS-MAR 02, p. 22). However,

                                          49
Judicial Conference of the United States

                     because pro se law clerks are funded centrally by the Administrative Office,
                     this policy blurred the distinction – key to budget decentralization – between
                     centrally held and decentralized funds. At this session, the Conference
                     approved the recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee that the
                     policy be modified so that a court wishing to extend a pro se law clerk position
                     beyond the time that its staffing formula would allow would request funds to
                     do so from its circuit’s Temporary Emergency Fund.


                     DEATH PENALTY LAW CLERKS

                             In March 1999, the Judicial Conference adopted a staffing formula for
                     death penalty law clerks of one law clerk for each 15 capital habeas corpus
                     cases in a district, if requested by the circuit judicial council (JCUS-MAR 99,
                     p. 24). Noting that death penalty law clerks, like pro se law clerks, develop
                     extensive knowledge and experience in their respective subject-matter areas,
                     the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference approve the use of a
                     stabilizing policy similar to that recently adopted for pro se law clerks (JCUS-
                     MAR 02, p. 22). The Conference agreed and approved a stabilizing policy that
                     provides that the number of allocated death penalty law clerk positions will
                     only be reduced if the number of pending capital habeas corpus cases does not
                     meet the formula standard for two consecutive years.


                     ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION

                             In March 1998, the Judicial Conference approved a “basic” and a
                     “robust” staffing factor for clerk’s office positions performing duties related to
                     alternative dispute resolution (JCUS-MAR 98, pp. 20-21). The basic staffing
                     factor was intended to apply to most district courts’ alternative dispute
                     resolution (ADR) programs, while the robust factor was intended for a limited
                     number of courts with extensive ADR programs. Citing a significant growth in
                     its ADR program and the strong support it receives from the bench and bar, the
                     Eastern District of Missouri requested application of the robust factor to
                     support its ADR program. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
                     Conference approved the district’s request.


                     COURT INTERPRETERS

                            Based on established criteria, the Committee recommended, and the
                     Conference approved, four additional court interpreter positions for fiscal year

                                                            50
                                                                September 24, 2002

2004: two positions for the Southern District of California, one position for the
Northern District of Illinois, and one position for the District of Nevada. These
positions will address the steady growth in the number of Spanish/English
interpreter events in those districts.


CHIEF DEPUTY CLERK

       Noting the unique responsibility and workload of the clerk’s office for
the District of the District of Columbia stemming from its location in the
nation’s capital, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference
authorize a second JSP-16 Type II chief deputy clerk position for that district,
using existing decentralized funding available to the court. The Conference
adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


DISTRICT COURT EXECUTIVE PILOT PROGRAM

          The district court executive pilot program, authorized by the Judicial
Conference in 1981, was designed to provide supervisory administrative
assistance to chief district judges in courts with enhanced non-judicial,
managerial responsibilities (JCUS-MAR 81, p. 68). Three of the six districts
that participated in the pilot program have retained the district court executive
position; the other three merged the functions of the position into the clerk’s
office. The Committee on Judicial Resources consulted with the Court
Administration and Case Management Committee, which conducted a review
of the pilot program. Based on the latter committee’s review, which noted the
growth of cross-unit administration and the flexibility of budget
decentralization to allow the development of management positions suited to a
particular court’s needs, the Judicial Resources Committee recommended that
the district court executive pilot program be terminated. Also in keeping with
the views of the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management,
the Judicial Resources Committee recommended continuing existing staffing
allocations for the courts that participated in the pilot program (allowing the
courts to maintain the positions should they so choose), since the existing
positions created under the pilot program continue to provide valuable services
to the courts and much of the work for which district court executive positions
are responsible has been incorporated into the staffing and funding allocations
for all six districts. The Judicial Conference adopted the Judicial Resources
Committee’s recommendations.



                                       51
Judicial Conference of the United States



                     RELEASE OF PERSONNEL INFORMATION

                             On recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, the Judicial
                     Conference approved a policy regarding the release by the Administrative
                     Office of personnel information pertaining to judges and judiciary employees.
                     The policy refines the procedures for the release of aggregate personnel data
                     and restricts the type of individual information that is allowed to be released to
                     the public without express written authorization of the judge or employee. The
                     new policy will be set forth in the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures,
                     Volume I, Chapter X.


                     BACKGROUND CHECKS/INVESTIGATIONS

                             The Judicial Conference discussed and adopted a recommendation of the
                     Judicial Resources Committee to expand the use of background investigations
                     and checks in the courts. The new policy creates two categories of positions
                     based on the nature of the work and the position’s potential to impact the
                     judiciary adversely. For “sensitive” positions, a Federal Bureau of Investigation
                     (FBI) fingerprint check is required, and a credit check is optional depending on
                     the duties of the position. For “high-sensitive” positions, an Office of Personnel
                     Management (OPM) ten-year single-scope background investigation is required,
                     as well as five-year updates. Five-year updates are also required for all
                     employees in high-sensitive positions who had FBI background investigations
                     prior to this policy being implemented. The policy applies to all new hires of
                     court and federal public defender organization employees, and also applies to
                     current court and federal public defender organization employees who are hired
                     for or promoted into high-sensitive positions.2 The policy will be published in
                     the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, Volume I, Chapter X.

                            Also on recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                     authorized the Administrative Office to use OPM in lieu of the FBI for
                     conducting pre-employment background investigations of probation and pretrial
                     services officers and officer assistants. OPM background investigations provide


                    2
                     This policy does not apply to probation and pretrial services officers and
                    officer assistants, bankruptcy administrators, and chapter 13 standing
                    bankruptcy trustees because they are covered by previously approved policies
                    on background investigations (see JCUS-SEP 68, pp. 68-69; JCUS-SEP 99,
                    p. 60; JCUS-SEP 87, p. 81; and JCUS-SEP 92, p. 61).

                                                             52
                                                                  September 24, 2002

the same level of investigative coverage as FBI investigations at half the cost
and can be expedited from 120 days to as little as 35 days for a modest
additional fee. Moreover, because OPM already conducts all required
reinvestigations of officers and officer assistants, the process for investigations
will be streamlined.


TRANSCRIPT RATES

        Noting that transcript and transcript copy fee rates for federal official
court reporters have not been increased in more than a decade, the Committee
on Judicial Resources recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, a
ten percent increase in such rates to be effective in fiscal year 2003.3 The
increase is subject to the availability of funding in the Defender Services
appropriation for any necessary increase in that appropriation to defray the
increased rates.


COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

         The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that in response to a
request for input on several long-range planning issues from the Economy
Subcommittee of the Committee on the Budget, the Committee encouraged the
Administrative Office to conduct a study on ways to structure increasingly
complex courts to ensure the highest quality and most professional
administrative support without impairing their local authority. The Committee
Chair briefed the Committee on his testimony regarding the judiciary benefits
program before a House subcommittee, which applauded the judiciary’s
Flexible Benefit Program and indicated its interest in the judiciary serving as a
model for the other branches of the government. The Committee also reported
that it supported the identification of workforce diversity as a cross-cutting,
long-range planning issue.




3
 This increase will not apply to rates for original transcripts in six large
metropolitan district courts that previously received approval to increase those
rates by ten or twenty percent from the Director of the Administrative Office
pursuant to his Conference-delegated authority to increase transcript rates when
the circumstances justify it (JCUS-MAR 81, pp. 7-8).

                                         53
Judicial Conference of the United States



             C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
             OF THE M AGISTRATE J UDGES S YSTEM

                     PARTICIPATION AT CIRCUIT JUDICIAL CONFERENCES

                             On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
                     Magistrate Judges System, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek an
                     amendment to 28 U.S.C. § 333 to include magistrate judges among the judicial
                     officers who may by statute be summoned to a circuit judicial conference.
                     Magistrate judges regularly attend circuit judicial conferences in all circuits.
                     They were not included in section 333 upon its original enactment in 1939
                     because the modern office of magistrate judge did not exist at that time.


                     CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                             After consideration of the report of the Committee on the Administration
                     of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of the Director of the
                     Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the
                     circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the following changes in positions,
                     salaries, locations, and arrangements for full-time and part-time magistrate
                     judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact are to be effective when
                     appropriated funds are available.

                     FIRST CIRCUIT

                     District of Massachusetts

                              Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                              magistrate judge positions in the district.

                     SECOND CIRCUIT

                     District of Connecticut

                              Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                              magistrate judge positions in the district.




                                                            54
                                                               September 24, 2002


THIRD CIRCUIT

Middle District of Pennsylvania

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the magistrate judge positions in the district.

FIFTH CIRCUIT

Eastern District of Texas

       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Eastern District of Wisconsin

       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
       the magistrate judge positions in the district.

EIGHTH CIRCUIT

District of Minnesota

       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Bemidji
       from Level 8 ($3,477 per annum) to Level 6 ($11,592 per annum).

NINTH CIRCUIT

Eastern District of California

1.     Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Bakersfield to full-
       time status;

2.     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
       Redding from Level 4 ($34,776 per annum) to Level 3 ($46,368 per
       annum);

3.     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at South
       Lake Tahoe from Level 5 ($23,184 per annum) to Level 4 ($34,776 per
       annum); and
                                       55
Judicial Conference of the United States


                     4.       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the other
                              magistrate judge positions in the district.

                     District of Nevada

                              Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                              magistrate judge positions in the district.

                     TENTH CIRCUIT

                     District of New Mexico

                     1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Las
                              Cruces;

                     2.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                              Albuquerque;

                     3.       Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Roswell
                              from Level 7 ($5,795 per annum) to Level 5 ($23,184 per annum);

                     4.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Clovis or
                              Portales, effective April 1, 2003; and

                     5.       Made no other changes in the number, locations, salaries, or
                              arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                     Eastern District of Oklahoma

                     1.       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at McAlester to full-
                              time status; and

                     2.       Made no change in the location or arrangements of the other magistrate
                              judge positions in the district.

                     District of Wyoming

                              Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Lander
                              from Level 7 ($5,795 per annum) to Level 6 ($11,592 per annum).




                                                              56
                                                                September 24, 2002


ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Middle District of Florida

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Fort
       Myers;

2.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
       Jacksonville; and

3.     Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

Southern District of Florida

1.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Miami;

2.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Fort
       Lauderdale;

3.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at West
       Palm Beach or Miami; and

4.     Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements
       of the magistrate judge positions in the district.


ACCELERATED FUNDING

        On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed
to designate for accelerated funding in fiscal year 2003 the nine new full-time
magistrate judge positions approved by the Conference.


COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

        The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
reported that it discussed the issue of workforce diversity in the context of the
magistrate judges system and recognized the need for diversity in magistrate
judge appointments. The Committee voted unanimously to write to all district
court chief judges to emphasize the importance of diversity and to encourage

                                        57
Judicial Conference of the United States


                     courts to continue efforts to achieve diversity in all aspects of the magistrate
                     judge selection process. The Committee also discussed the issue of magistrate
                     judge involvement in court governance. The Committee agreed to write to the
                     chief judges of those circuits without a magistrate judge on the circuit council to
                     encourage them to consider including magistrate judges on their respective
                     circuit councils.


             C OMMITTEE TO R EVIEW C IRCUIT
             C OUNCIL C ONDUCT AND D ISABILITY O RDERS

                     INFORMATION ON COMPLAINT PROCEDURES

                            In recognition of the increasing importance of on-line availability of
                     information for the transaction of legal business, and at the suggestion of two
                     members of Congress, the Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and
                     Disability Orders recommended that the Judicial Conference:

                     a.       Urge every federal court to include a prominent link on its website to its
                              circuit’s forms for filing complaints of judicial misconduct or disability
                              and its circuit’s rules governing the complaint procedure; and

                     b.       Encourage chief judges and judicial councils to submit non-routine
                              public orders disposing of complaints of judicial misconduct or
                              disability for publication by on-line and print services.

                     The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability
                     Orders continued to monitor the status of H.R. 3892 (107th Congress),
                     legislation to amend (in several minor respects) the Judicial Conduct and
                     Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. § 372(c), that was introduced on March 7, 2002.




                                                              58
                                                                   September 24, 2002



C OMMITTEE ON R ULES OF P RACTICE AND P ROCEDURE

    FEDERAL RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

            The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
    Judicial Conference proposed technical amendments to Appellate Forms 1
    (Notice of Appeal to a Court of Appeals From a Judgment or Order of a District
    Court), 2 (Notice of Appeal to a Court of Appeals From a Decision of the
    United States Tax Court), 3 (Petition for Review of Order of an Agency, Board,
    Commission or Officer), and 5 (Notice of Appeal to a Court of Appeals From a
    Judgment or Order of a District Court or a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel). The
    Judicial Conference approved the amendments and authorized their transmittal
    to the Supreme Court for its consideration with the recommendation that they be
    adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


    FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

            The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
    Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1005 (Caption
    of Petition), 1007 (Lists, Schedules, and Statements; Time Limits), 2002
    (Notices to Creditors, Equity Security Holders, United States, and United States
    Trustee), 2003 (Meeting of Creditors or Equity Security Holders), 2009
    (Trustees for Estates When Joint Administration Ordered), 2016 (Compensation
    for Services Rendered and Reimbursement of Expenses), and new Rule 7007.1
    (Corporate Ownership Statement), together with Committee notes explaining
    their purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference approved the amendments
    and the new rule and authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court for its
    consideration with the recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and
    transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.

            The Committee also submitted, and the Conference approved, proposed
    revisions to Bankruptcy Official Forms 1 (Voluntary Petition), 5 (Involuntary
    Petition), and 17 (Notice of Appeal Under 28 U.S.C. § 158(a) or (b) From a
    Judgment, Order, or Decree of a Bankruptcy Judge) relating to multilateral
    clearing banks and child-support creditors, to take effect on December 1, 2002,
    and proposed privacy-related revisions to Bankruptcy Official Forms 1
    (Voluntary Petition), 3 (Application and Order to Pay Filing Fee in
    Installments), 5 (Involuntary Petition), 6 (Schedules), 7 (Statement of Financial
    Affairs), 8 (Individual Debtor’s Statement of Intention), 9 (Notice of
    Commencement of Case Under the Bankruptcy Code, Meeting of Creditors, and

                                           59
Judicial Conference of the United States


                     Deadlines), 10 (Proof of Claim), 16A (Caption (Full)), 16C (Caption of
                     Complaint in Adversary Proceeding Filed by a Debtor), 17 (Notice of Appeal
                     Under 28 U.S.C. § 158(a) or (b) From a Judgment, Order, or Decree of a
                     Bankruptcy Judge), and 19 (Certification and Signature of Non-Attorney
                     Bankruptcy Petition Preparer (See 11 U.S.C. § 110)), to take effect on
                     December 1, 2003.


                     FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

                             The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                     Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Civil Rules 23 (Class Actions), 51
                     (Instructions to Jury: Objection), 53 (Masters), 54 (Judgments; Costs), and 71A
                     (Condemnation of Property), and revisions to Forms 19 (Motion to Dismiss,
                     Presenting Defenses of Failure to State a Claim, of Lack of Service of Process,
                     of Improper Venue, and of Lack of Jurisdiction Under Rule 12(b)), 31
                     (Judgment on Jury Verdict), and 32 (Judgment on Decision by the Court),
                     together with Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The Judicial
                     Conference approved the changes and authorized their transmittal to the
                     Supreme Court for its consideration with the recommendation that they be
                     adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.
                     Included in these proposed amendments is a substantial reworking of Rule 23
                     class action procedures focusing on four areas of class action litigation: the
                     timing of the certification decision and notice; judicial oversight of settlements
                     (which was discussed at the Conference session); attorney appointment; and
                     attorney compensation.


                     FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

                              The Bail Bond Fairness Act of 2001, H.R. 2929, 107th Congress, would
                     amend Criminal Rule 46(e) to eliminate the current power of a judge to forfeit a
                     bail bond for failure to satisfy a condition of release, other than “if the defendant
                     fails to appear physically before the court.” Noting that current Rule 46(e)
                     provides judges with the flexibility to impose added safeguards to ensure a
                     defendant’s compliance with conditions of release, e.g., refraining from drug
                     use, and that absent such assurance, judges might decide to retain a defendant in
                     custody, the Committee recommended that the Conference oppose such
                     legislation. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.



                                                              60
                                                                     September 24, 2002




    FEDERAL RULES OF EVIDENCE

             The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
    Judicial Conference a proposed amendment to Evidence Rule 608(b) (Specific
    instances of conduct), together with Committee notes explaining its purpose and
    intent. The Judicial Conference approved the amendment and authorized its
    transmittal to the Supreme Court for its consideration with the recommendation
    that it be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with
    the law.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure unanimously
    endorsed the findings and recommendations of the Advisory Committee on
    Civil Rules dealing with problems raised by filings of duplicative and
    overlapping class actions and transmitted them to the Committee on Federal-
    State Jurisdiction for its consideration. The Committee supports “the concept of
    minimal diversity for large, multi-state class actions, in which the interests of no
    state are paramount, with appropriate limitations or threshold requirements so
    that the federal courts are not unduly burdened and the states’ jurisdiction over
    in-state class actions is left undisturbed.” The Committee also approved for
    publication proposed amendments to Rule 9014 of the Federal Rules of
    Bankruptcy Procedure, Rule 41 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
    Rule 804 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, and a comprehensive revision of the
    Rules Governing Section 2254 Cases and Section 2255 Proceedings.


C OMMITTEE ON S ECURITY AND F ACILITIES

    MAIL HANDLING POLICY

            In response to concerns raised by the recent anthrax contamination of the
    United States mail system, the Committee on Security and Facilities contracted
    with an independent consultant to conduct a study of current judiciary mail
    handling facilities and practices and to recommend procedures and
    infrastructure guidelines to improve mail handling safety in federal courthouses.




                                            61
Judicial Conference of the United States


                     Based on this study, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference
                     take the following steps to enhance judiciary mail handling policies and
                     procedures:

                     a.       Issue guidance to courts on mail handling procedures, and consider
                              establishing a central mail facility in court-only and possibly in multi-
                              tenant buildings for screening, sorting and opening the mail;

                     b.       Require a court’s full concurrence on the adoption and implementation
                              of the study’s enhanced mail handling policies and procedures prior to
                              construction of a central mail facility;

                     c.       Approve funding for design and construction of central mailrooms for
                              the Moakley Courthouse in Boston, the Moynihan U.S. Courthouse in
                              New York City, and the Bryan Courthouse in Alexandria to prepare for
                              the high-threat trials;

                     d.       Approve updating the U. S. Courts Design Guide to incorporate the new
                              standards for mailrooms in new courthouses;

                     e.       Approve issuing design changes or change orders to the General
                              Services Administration (GSA) on all courthouses in the design and
                              construction phases to provide a central mail facility that meets the
                              current Interagency Security Committee and U. S. Courts Design Guide
                              standards and proposed prototype architectural and mechanical standards
                              for bio-chemical safety;

                     f.       Approve funding design and construction for mail facilities in large4
                              court-only buildings and ask the circuit councils to work with GSA to
                              develop costs for specific buildings so that priorities can be set; and

                     g.       In FY 2003, approve construction of mail facilities for remaining court-
                              only and multi-tenant buildings as funding permits.


                    4
                     The Security and Facilities Committee subsequently came to believe that the
                    word “large” in this section was too restrictive and would limit the circuit
                    judicial councils in setting local priorities in this area. The Committee sought
                    the removal of the word “large” from this provision of the mail handling policy.
                    The Executive Committee approved the change on behalf of the Judicial
                    Conference (see supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” p. 37).

                                                               62
                                                                September 24, 2002


Since the process of designing and constructing new mail facilities is a lengthy
one, the Committee requested and the Judicial Conference agreed to an
expedited review of these recommendations so that safety measures could be put
in place as soon as possible. By mail ballot concluded on July 18, 2002, the
Judicial Conference approved the recommendations.


FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

        In March 2002, the Conference approved the Five-Year Courthouse
Project Plan for fiscal years 2003-2007 with fiscal year 2003 projects displayed
in two columns to distinguish those projects unfunded in fiscal year 2002 and
prior years from those scheduled for funding in fiscal year 2003. Funding
priority between the two columns was not established (JCUS-MAR 02, p. 31).
At this session, on recommendation of the Committee on Security and Facilities,
the Conference agreed to take the following actions regarding the Five-Year
Courthouse Project Plan:

a.     Endorse placement of projects in the first year of each Five-Year Plan
       that gives priority in descending order by score: (1) first, to any
       unfunded projects remaining from earlier years; and then (2) to projects
       planned for that first year;

b.     Approve the placement of new projects in the Five-Year Plan in score
       order with other projects in any of the last three years of any Five-Year
       Plan;

c.     Endorse the early acquisition of sites (including donated sites) for
       courthouse projects; however, projects with donated sites shall maintain
       their original placement in score order on the Five-Year Plan; and

d.     Authorize the Administrative Office to work with GSA prior to
       submission of the President’s budget request to OMB in any given fiscal
       year.


JURY ROOM SIZE

         In September 2000, the Judicial Conference amended the U. S. Courts
Design Guide to reduce the number of jurors to be accommodated in a standard
district courtroom from 18 to16, unless otherwise required, since courts had

                                       63
Judicial Conference of the United States


                     advised that they seldom convened 18 jurors for a trial (JCUS-SEP 00,
                     pp. 66-67). However, courts have noted that on those occasions when they do
                     empanel 16 to 18 jurors, particularly for trials expected to last a week or longer,
                     a 350 square foot jury deliberation room is not large enough for jurors’ comfort.
                     In order to accommodate such cases, the Conference adopted the
                     recommendation of the Committee on Security and Facilities to amend the
                     Design Guide to—

                     a.       Permit one in four district court jury deliberation rooms to be 500 square
                              feet;

                     b.       Permit one jury deliberation room to be 500 square feet in courthouses
                              with fewer than four courtrooms; and

                     c.       Stipulate that, if a special proceedings courtroom is planned for a new
                              courthouse project, the 500 square foot jury deliberation room should be
                              placed adjacent to it.


                     SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS COURTROOMS

                            On recommendation of the Committee, and after discussion, the Judicial
                     Conference agreed to amend the Design Guide to add language that would
                     permit a special proceedings courtroom for new court buildings planned with
                     fewer than four district courtrooms, in states with small, widely dispersed
                     populations, to accommodate multi-defendant trials in those locations. Special
                     proceedings courtrooms in such locations will no longer be considered “special
                     requirements” necessitating approval of circuit judicial councils.


                     SECURITY IN THE COURTROOM

                             To provide a framework for decision-making for the judiciary-funded
                     court security program, the Committee recommended, and the Conference
                     approved, guiding principles for federal judicial security. Those principles state
                     that federal judges, court staffs and visitors to courthouses are targets; that the
                     federal judiciary is responsible for identifying the judiciary’s strategic security
                     needs, in conjunction with the United States Marshals Service and others; that
                     protection of the judiciary is the primary U.S. Marshals Service task; that
                     resources provided by the judiciary to the U.S. Marshals Service or to any other
                     executive branch agency are a supplement to, not a substitute for, the resources

                                                              64
                                                                    September 24, 2002


    otherwise available to those agencies for protecting the federal judiciary; and
    that a unified program is essential.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Security and Facilities reported that it considered
    ways to enhance the court security program and recommended that the
    Administrative Office convene a focus group of judges to discuss “what works
    and what does not work” with regard to court security, and develop an
    orientation program for chief judges to reinforce the vital role of the court
    security committee in the overall security program of each judicial district. The
    Committee also reviewed an evaluation of the first year of implementation of
    the cyclical maintenance program for court space and concluded that the results,
    which showed that 80 percent of the funds were expended on court buildings
    over 20 years old, reinforced the need for the program approved by the Judicial
    Conference in September 2000 (JCUS-SEP 00, p. 67). The Committee was
    briefed on the recent, significant agreement between GSA and the judiciary that
    allows the judiciary to plan for ten years of expansion room in a new courthouse
    from the date of occupancy, rather than from the date of design, as has been
    done in the past.


F UNDING
            All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
    funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
    the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
    establish for the use of available resources.




                                                   Chief Justice of the United States
                                                   Presiding




                                            65
                                                                     September 24, 2002

INDEX

Administrative Office, Committee on the, 38

Administrative Office of the United States Courts
     advisory group structure, 38
     background investigations, probation/pretrial services, 52-53
     changes in magistrate judge positions, 54
     courthouse construction budget request, 63
     courts’ enforcement of office equipment policies, 47
     Criminal Justice Act panel attorney compensation, 46
     financial plans, FY 2003, 37-38
     officer safety program, 44
     off-site court operations center, 38
     pro se law clerk funding, 49-50
     release of personnel information, 52
     security, court, 65
     transcript rates, 53

ADR (see alternative dispute resolution)

Alternative dispute resolution
      staffing factor, 50

Appellate rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Appropriations
     budget request, FY 2004, 41, 44-45
     Court Security account, 37-38
     courthouse construction budget request, 63
     Criminal Justice Act panel attorney compensation, 41, 44-45
     defender organization funding, 46
     Defender Services account, 37-38, 53
     Fees of Jurors and Commissioners account, 37-38
     financial plans, interim, FY 2003, 37-38
     Salaries and Expenses account, 37-38

Automation (see information technology)

Automation and Technology, Committee on (see Information Technology, Committee
on)


                                            i
Judicial Conference of the United States


Background checks/investigations, 52-53

Bankruptcy administrators
     background checks/investigations, 52

Bankruptcy judges (see judges, bankruptcy)

Bankruptcy rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Bankruptcy system (see also judges, bankruptcy)
     judgeships
        continuing need, 39-40
        new, 39
     official duty stations, 40
     rules of practice and procedure, 59-60
     workforce diversity, 40
     venue, 40

Bankruptcy System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 39-40

Bankruptcy trustees, chapter 13 standing
     background checks/investigations, 52

Budget (see appropriations)

Budget, Committee on the, 40, 41-42, 44-45, 53
      Economy Subcommittee, 40, 53

Budget decentralization
      chief deputy clerk, Type II, District of the District of Columbia, 51
      district court executive pilot program, 51
      long-distance telephone billing, 48
      pro se law clerk funding, 49-50

Case management (see court administration)

Cauthron, Robin J., 36

Chief judges (see judges, chief)



                                            ii
                                                                         September 24, 2002
Circuit councils (see circuit judicial councils)

Circuit judges (see judges, circuit)

Circuit judicial conferences, 54

Circuit judicial councils
       changes in magistrate judge positions, 54
       conduct and disability orders, publication, 58
       death penalty law clerks, 50
       magistrate judge representation, 58
       special proceedings courtrooms, 64

Civil rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Clerks of court
       chief deputy, Type II, District of the District of Columbia, 51
       district court executive pilot program, 51

Codes of Conduct, Committee on, 42

Community defender organizations (see defender services)

Compensation
     court reporters transcript rates, 53
     Criminal Justice Act panel attorneys, 41, 44-45, 46
     judicial, 49
     Second National Commission on the Public Service, 49

Conduct and disability, judicial
     complaint forms on-line, 58
     complaint procedures on-line, 58
     publication of non-routine public orders, 58

Conduct and Disability Orders, Committee to Review
Circuit Council, 58

Congress (see also legislation, pending)
      bankruptcy judgeships, 39-40
      criminal rules style revisions, 37
      Employment Cost Index pay adjustments, 45
      judicial conduct and disability, access to information, 58
      rules of practice and procedure, 59-61

                                             iii
Judicial Conference of the United States


Court administration
      access to court information
         electronic public access fees, 43
         judicial conduct and disability orders/forms, 58
      decentralization of long-distance telephone billing, 48
      district court executive pilot program, 51
      fees, electronic public access, 43
      financial management, 41
      government office equipment, model use policy, 47-48
      information technology security, 48
      official duty stations, bankruptcy, 41
      places of holding court, 37
      records, 37, 52

Court Administration and Case Management, Committee on, 37, 43, 51

Court governance, 54, 58

Court interpreters, 50-51

Court reporters
      transcript rates, 53

Courthouses (see space and facilities)

Courtrooms (see space and facilities)

Courts of appeals (see also court administration)
      rules of practice and procedure, 59

Criminal Justice Act (CJA) (see also defender services; federal defenders)
      case compensation maximums, 46
      panel attorney compensation, 41, 44-45, 46

Criminal law (see also defender services; probation and pretrial services system)
      forfeiture of bail bond, conditions, 60
      rules of practice and procedure, 37, 60

Criminal Law, Committee on, 44

Criminal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)


                                           iv
                                                                         September 24, 2002
Data communications network (DCN), 48

Death penalty law clerks, 50

Defender services (see also Criminal Justice Act; federal defenders)
      community defender organization grant and conditions agreement, 45
      defender organization funding, 46
      workforce diversity, 46

Defender Services, Committee on, 41, 44-46

Department of Justice
      Federal Bureau of Investigation, 52-53
      United States Marshals Service, 64-65

Department of Treasury, 41

Design Guide (see U. S. Courts Design Guide)

District court executive pilot program, 51

District courts (see also bankruptcy system; court administration; magistrate judges
system; probation and pretrial services system)
       alternative dispute resolution staffing, 50
       changes in magistrate judge positions, 54
       chief deputy clerk, Type II, District of the District of Columbia, 51
       class action jurisdiction, 46, 61
       class action procedures, 60
       clerks’ offices staffing allocation, 50, 51
       court interpreter positions, 50-51
       death penalty law clerks, 50
       district court executive pilot program, 51
       jury room size, 63-64
       places of holding court, 37
       pro se law clerks, 49-50
       rules of practice and procedure, 60, 61
       transcript rates, 53

District judges (see judges, district)

Diversity jurisdiction, 46, 61



                                             v
Judicial Conference of the United States


Electronic public access (EPA) (see also Internet)
       fee exemptions, 43

Employment Cost Index (ECI), 45

Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 47

Executive branch
      capital gains rollover, 42
      Department of Justice
         Federal Bureau of Investigation, 52-53
         United States Marshals Service, 64-65
      Department of Treasury, 41
      General Services Administration, 62, 63, 65
      government office equipment, appropriate use policy, 47-48
      Joint Financial Management Improvement Program, 41
      Office of Management and Budget, 41, 63
      Office of Personnel Management, 41, 52-53
      President of the United States, 63
      security resources, 64-65

Executive Committee, 36-38, 41, 62

Federal Bureau of Investigation, 52-53

Federal defenders (see also Criminal Justice Act, defender services)
      public, background checks/investigations, 52

Federal public defender organizations (see defender services)

Federal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Federal-State Jurisdiction, Committee on, 46, 61

Federal-state relations
      education programs, 46

Fees
        electronic public access, exemptions, 43

Financial Accounting System for Tomorrow (FAS4T), 41


                                            vi
                                                                        September 24, 2002

Financial Disclosure, Committee on, 47

Financial disclosure reports, 47

Financial management, 41

General Accounting Office, 41

General Services Administration, 62, 63, 65

George, Lloyd, 48

Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, 52

Haden, Charles H. II, 36

Information technology (see also Internet)
      appropriate use policy, 47-48
      electronic public access fee exemptions, 43
      long-distance telephone services, 48
      security, 48

Information Technology, Committee on, 47-48

Intercircuit assignments, 48

Intercircuit Assignments, Committee on, 48

Internal Revenue Code, 42

International Judicial Relations, Committee on, 48-49

Internet (see also information technology)
       appropriate use policies, 47-48
       model use policy, 47-48
       public access, judicial conduct and disability information, 58
       usage, 47-48

Joint Financial Management Improvement Program, 41




                                            vii
Judicial Conference of the United States



Judges, Article III (see also judges, chief; judges, federal)
      compensation, 49
      intercircuit assignments, 48

Judges, bankruptcy (see also bankruptcy system; judges, chief; judges, federal)
      official duty stations, 40
      venue, 40

Judges, chief
      court security orientation programs, 65
      district court executive pilot program, 51
      publication of conduct and disability orders, 58

Judges, circuit (see judges, Article III; judges, chief; judges, federal)

Judges, Court of Federal Claims (see judges, federal)

Judges, district (see judges, Article III; judges, chief; judges, federal)

Judges, federal (see also judges, Article III; judges, bankruptcy; judges, chief; judges,
magistrate)
       capital gains rollover treatment, 42
       compensation, 49
       financial disclosure reports, 47
       forfeiture of bail bond, judges’ authority, 60
       investments, conflicts-of interest, 42
       miscellaneous transportation expenses, 49
       Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, 49

Judges, magistrate (see also judges, federal; magistrate judges system)
      accelerated funding, 57
      changes in positions, 54-57
      participation at circuit judicial conferences, 54
      representation on circuit judicial councils, 58
      workforce diversity, 57-58

Judgeships, bankruptcy
      continuing need, 39-40
      new, 39

Judicial Branch, Committee on the, 42, 49

                                             viii
                                                                         September 24, 2002

Judicial Conference of the United States
       funding of actions, 65
       Judicial Conference of the United States and its Committees, 37
       mail ballots, 37, 61-63
       practices and procedures, 37

Judicial Conference of the United States and its Committees, 37

Judicial Resources, Committee on, 49-53

Judiciary Salary Plan (see personnel, judiciary)

Jurisdiction
       diversity, class action litigation, 46, 61

Jury administration
      jury room size, 63-64

Law clerks
      death penalty, 50
      pro se, 49-50

Legislation, pending (107th Congress)
       Bail Bond Fairness Act of 2001 (H.R. 2929), 60
       Social Security Number Misuse Prevention Act of 2001 (S. 848), 37

Legislative branch (see also Congress)
       General Accounting Office, 41

Magistrate judges (see judges, magistrate)

Magistrate judges system (see also judges, magistrate)
      accelerated funding, 57
      changes in positions, 54-57
      workforce diversity, 57-58

Magistrate Judges System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 54-58

Mail ballots of the Judicial Conference, 37, 61-63

Mihm, Michael, 48

                                              ix
Judicial Conference of the United States



Miscellaneous fee schedules (see fees)

National Security Agency, 48

Office of Management and Budget, 41, 63

Office of Personnel Management, 41, 52-53

Official duty stations, bankruptcy, 40

Panel attorneys (see Criminal Justice Act)

Personnel, judiciary (see also staffing resources)
      background checks/investigations, 52-53
      chief deputy clerk, Type II, District of the District of Columbia, 51
      court reporter transcript rates, 53
      financial disclosure reports, 47
      Internet usage, 47-48
      Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP), 51
      release of personnel information, 52
      workforce diversity, 40, 43, 44, 46, 53, 57-58

Places of holding court, 37

President of the United States, 63

Pretrial services system (see probation and pretrial services system)

Privacy
      release of personnel information, 52
      Social Security Number Misuse Prevention Act of 2001, proposed, 37

Pro se law clerks, 49-50

Probation and pretrial services officers (see also personnel, judiciary)
      background checks/investigations, 52-53
      officer safety program, 44
      use of force continuum, 44




                                             x
                                                                        September 24, 2002

Probation and pretrial services system (see also probation and pretrial services
officers)
        workforce diversity, 44

Records (see also electronic public access)
      release of personnel information, 52
      Social Security Number Misuse Prevention Act of 2001, proposed, 37

Resolutions
      Cauthron, Robin J., 36
      Haden, Charles H. II, 36
      Shadur, Milton I., 36

Rule of law programs, 48-49

Rules of practice and procedure
       appellate rules, 59
       bankruptcy rules, 59-60, 61
       civil rules, 60, 61
       class actions, 60
       criminal rules, 37, 60, 61
       evidence rules, 61

Rules of Practice and Procedure, Committee on, 37, 46, 59-61

Salaries (see compensation)

Second National Commission on the Public Service, 49

Security
       background checks for court employees, 52-53
       guiding principles, 64-65
       information technology, 48
       mail handling policy, 37, 61-63

Security and Facilities, Committee on, 37, 61-65

Shadur, Milton, I., 36




                                           xi
Judicial Conference of the United States



Space and facilities
       courthouse construction, 61-63, 63
       Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 63
       jury room size, 63-64
       mail handling facilities, 37, 61-63
       special proceedings courtrooms, 64
       U. S. Courts Design Guide
          jury room size, 63-64
          mailrooms in new courthouses, 62
          special proceedings courtrooms, 64

Staffing formulae (see staffing resources)

Staffing resources (see also personnel, judiciary)
       alternative dispute resolution staffing factor, 50
       court interpreter positions, 50-51
       death penalty law clerks, 50
       district court executive pilot program, 51
       pro se law clerks, 49-50

Supporting personnel (see personnel, judiciary)

Technology (see information technology)

Temporary Emergency Fund, 49-50

Transcript rates, 53

Travel, judges’
       reimbursement, personal luggage handling, 49

Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, 49

United States Marshals Service, 64-65

U. S. Courts Design Guide, 62, 63-64, 64

Volcker Commission (see Second National Commission on the Public Service)




                                             xii
A DMINISTRATIVE O FFICE OF THE U.S. C OURTS
T HURGOOD M ARSHALL F EDERAL J UDICIARY B UILDING
            W ASHINGTON, D.C. 20544
