REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


September 23, 2003


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on September 23, 2003, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. ' 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                     First Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Michael Boudin
                                 Judge D. Brock Hornby,
                                        District of Maine

                     Second Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge John M. Walker, Jr.
                                 Chief Judge Frederick J. Scullin, Jr.,
                                        Northern District of New York

                     Third Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Anthony J. Scirica
                                 Chief Judge Sue L. Robinson,
                                        District of Delaware

                     Fourth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge William W. Wilkins
                                 Judge David C. Norton,
                                        District of South Carolina

                     Fifth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King
                                 Judge Martin L. C. Feldman,
                                        Eastern District of Louisiana


                     Sixth Circuit:
Judicial Conference of the United States


                                           Chief Judge Boyce F. Martin, Jr.
                                           Chief Judge Lawrence P. Zatkoff,
                                                  Eastern District of Michigan

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel M. Flaum
                                           Judge Marvin E. Aspen,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge James B. Loken
                                           Chief Judge James M. Rosenbaum,
                                                  District of Minnesota

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary M. Schroeder
                                           Chief Judge David Alan Ezra,
                                                  District of Hawaii

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Deanell R. Tacha
                                           Chief Judge Frank Howell Seay,
                                                  Eastern District of Oklahoma

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge J. L. Edmondson
                                           Judge J. Owen Forrester
                                                  Northern District of Georgia

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Douglas H. Ginsburg
                                           Chief Judge Thomas F. Hogan,
                                                  District of Columbia




                                                     2
                                                                                    September 23, 2

           Federal Circuit:

                      Chief Judge Haldane Robert Mayer

           Court of International Trade:

                      Chief Judge Gregory W. Carman

            The following Judicial Conference committee chairs or their designees
    attended the Conference session: Circuit Judges Edward E. Carnes, Dennis G.
    Jacobs, Marjorie O. Rendell, and Jane R. Roth and District Judges Lourdes G.
    Baird, John G. Heyburn II, Sim Lake, David F. Levi, John W. Lungstrum,
    Catherine D. Perry, Lee H. Rosenthal, Patti B. Saris, Harvey E. Schlesinger,
    and Frederick P. Stamp, Jr. Karen Greve Milton of the Second Circuit
    represented the circuit executives.

            Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
    United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did
    Clarence A. Lee, Jr., Associate Director for Management and Operations;
    William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General Counsel; Karen K.
    Siegel, Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat;
    Michael W. Blommer, Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; David Sellers,
    Assistant Director, Public Affairs; and Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant
    Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat. Judge Barbara Rothstein
    and Russell Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial
    Center, also attended the session of the Conference, as did Sally Rider,
    Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice; Scott Harris, Supreme Court
    Legal Counsel; and the 2003-2004 Judicial Fellows.

           Senators Patrick J. Leahy and Jeff Sessions and Representative John
    Conyers, Jr. spoke on matters pending in Congress of interest to the
    Conference. Attorney General John Ashcroft addressed the Conference on
    matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice.


REPORTS
           Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
   courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge
   Rothstein spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center programs, and
   Judge Diana E. Murphy, Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission,
   reported on Sentencing Commission activities.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

                                                   3
Judicial Conference of the United States



       RESOLUTIONS

              The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
       Committee to adopt the following resolution in recognition of the substantial
       contributions made by Judicial Conference committee chairs who will
       complete their terms of service in 2003:

                       The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
                with appreciation, respect and admiration the following judicial
                officers:

                              HONORABLE LOURDES G. BAIRD
                              Committee on the Administrative Office

                          HONORABLE MICHAEL J. MELLOY
                   Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System

                            HONORABLE WILLIAM W. WILKINS
                                Committee on Criminal Law

                              HONORABLE JAMES C. CACHERIS
                               Committee on Intercircuit Assignments

                            HONORABLE PAUL A. MAGNUSON
                           Committee on International Judicial Relations

                             HONORABLE HARVEY E. SCHLESINGER
               Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System

                                                       HONORABLE ANTHONY J.
       SCIRICA
                           Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure

                                 HONORABLE DAVID F. LEVI
                                 Advisory Committee on Civil Rules

               Appointed as committee chairs by Chief Justice
        William H. Rehnquist, these outstanding jurists have played a
        vital role in the administration of the federal court system.
        These judges served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial
        Conference committees while, at the same time, continuing to
        perform their duties as judges in their own courts. They have
        set a standard of skilled leadership and earned our deep respect

                                                   4
                                                                                   September 23, 20

       and sincere gratitude for their innumerable contributions. We
       acknowledge with appreciation their commitment and dedicated
       service to the Judicial Conference and to the entire federal
       judiciary.


SENTENCING-RELATED LEGISLATION

        On March 27, 2003, the House of Representatives approved a floor
amendment (the AFeeney Amendment@) to H.R. 1104, 108th Congress, the then-
pending AChild Abduction Prevention Act,@ which would have, among other
things, restricted district courts= authority to depart downward from the
sentencing guidelines to grounds specifically identified by the United States
Sentencing Commission. It also would have required, in appeals of downward
departures, de novo review by the courts of appeals of sentencing judges=
application of the guidelines to the facts. The House substituted H.R. 1104 for
an earlier-passed Senate bill dealing with child pornography, and a conference
was scheduled forthwith. In light of the rapidity with which the bill was
moving through Congress, the Committee on Criminal Law reviewed the
legislation on an expedited basis and sought Executive Committee
consideration of the matter. By mail ballot concluded on April 3, 2003, the
Executive Committee approved the Criminal Law Committee=s
recommendations that the ConferenceC

       Oppose legislation that would eliminate the courts= authority to depart
       downward in appropriate situations unless the grounds relied upon are
       specifically identified by the Sentencing Commission as permissible for
       the departure;

       Consistent with the prior Judicial Conference position on
       congressionally mandated guideline amendments, oppose legislation
       that directly amends the sentencing guidelines, and suggest that, in lieu
       of mandated amendments, Congress should instruct the Sentencing
       Commission to study suggested changes to particular guidelines and to
       report to Congress if it determines not to make the recommended
       changes;

       Oppose legislation that would alter the standard of review in 18 U.S.C.
       ' 3742(e) from Adue deference@ regarding a sentencing judge=s
       application of the guidelines to the facts of a case to a Ade novo@
       standard of review;

       Oppose any amendment to 28 U.S.C. ' 994(w) that would impose
       specific recordkeeping and reporting requirements on federal courts in

                                                5
Judicial Conference of the United States

        all criminal cases or that would require the Sentencing Commission to
        disclose confidential court records to the Judiciary Committees upon
        request; and

        Urge Congress that, if it determines to pursue legislation in this area
        notwithstanding the Judicial Conference=s opposition, it do so only after
        the Judicial Conference, the Sentencing Commission, and the Senate
        have had an opportunity to consider more carefully the facts about
        downward departures and the implications of making such a significant
        change to the sentencing guideline system.1


FISCAL YEAR 2003 APPROPRIATIONS SHORTFALL

        In June 2003, the judiciary forwarded to Congress an emergency fiscal
year (FY) 2003 supplemental appropriations request to address funding
shortfalls for juror fees, payments to private panel attorneys under the Criminal
Justice Act (CJA), and housing for 15 newly created district judgeships. In
mid-July, when it became apparent that the 2003 Fees of Jurors and
Commissioners appropriations account would be depleted earlier than
expected, the Executive Committee agreed that if supplemental funds were not
forthcoming, the judiciary should seek approval from Congress to reprogram

1
 A somewhat narrower version of the bill was subsequently passed by Congress
and signed into law on April 30, 2003, as the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other
Tools to end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 or APROTECT
Act@ (Public Law No. 108-21). The Conference, at this session, voted to
support repeal of certain provisions of the PROTECT Act. See infra, AThe
PROTECT Act,@ pp. 18-20.




                                                 6
                                                                                    September 23, 20

up to $5 million from the Salaries and Expenses emergency reserve fund to
cover the jury fee shortfall. The Committee also determined to urge judges to
defer, if possible, non-critical civil jury trials, so as to minimize spending of
funds that had been earmarked for emergencies.

        Having received no fiscal year 2003 supplemental appropriation by
late-July 2003, the judiciary promptly sought approval from Congress to
reprogram $5 million from the Salaries and Expenses emergency reserve fund
into the Fees of Jurors and Commissioners account. The chair of the Senate
Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary
 declined to approve the request, encouraging, instead, the submission of a
revised request to reprogram the entire $10 million reserve to be used both for
jury expenses and for payments to CJA panel attorneys. The Executive
Committee agreed to that approach, and a request to reprogram $10 million
from the Salaries and Expenses account to the Fees of Jurors and the Defender
Services accounts was approved by Congress in mid-August 2003. Judges
were notified that deferral of civil jury trials was no longer necessary.2


ASBESTOS LEGISLATION

        S. 1125, the Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2003 (AFAIR
Act@), pending in the 108th Congress, is intended to establish an efficient
process for the resolution of asbestos-related personal injury claims. The
Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction was asked to review those
jurisdictional provisions of the bill that would impact court structure and
operations and made a number of substantive recommendations for changes.
On June 18, 2003, the Executive Committee, on behalf of the Conference,
unanimously approved a letter to Congress, based on the recommendations of
the Federal-State Jurisdiction Committee, expressing the concerns of the
Conference.

         Subsequently, the Bankruptcy Committee reviewed the portions of the
bill that would impact the bankruptcy system. On August 14, 2003, the
Executive Committee approved, with modifications, a second letter to
Congress, prepared by the Bankruptcy Committee, expressing the judiciary=s
deep concerns over the legislation=s significant impact on the bankruptcy
system.



2
 A supplemental appropriation, including $32.5 million for the judiciary, was
enacted on September 29, 2003.


                                                 7
Judicial Conference of the United States

MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

        The Executive CommitteeC

$       Approved a recommendation of the Magistrate Judges Committee to
        increase from Level 4 to Level 1 the salary of the part-time magistrate
        judge in Martinsburg, West Virginia, during the time the resident
        district court judge is on active duty in the National Guard;




                                                 8
                                                                                 September 23, 20

$   Approved a recommendation of the Magistrate Judges Committee to
    waive the residency requirement contained in the selection and
    appointment regulations for magistrate judges for the chair of the merit
    selection panel that is considering the reappointment of an incumbent
    magistrate judge in the Western District of Arkansas;

$   On recommendation of the Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction,
    following the request of the Ninth Circuit Judicial Council, agreed that
    the judiciary would seek Article III status for the District Court of
    Guam;

$   On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
    Case Management, agreed to modify the Conference=s March 1988 and
    September 1998 positions (JCUS-MAR 88, p. 30; JCUS-SEP 98, p. 62)
    regarding the elimination of the automatic exemptions from jury service
    for active members of the Armed Forces, fire and police officials, and
    Apublic officers@ of federal and state governments to provide instead
    that the Conference seek amendment of 28 U.S.C. ' 1863(b)(5)(B) to
    make these persons eligible for automatic excuse from jury service
    upon individual request;

$   Approved a recommendation of the Court Administration and Case
    Management Committee that the Conference seek amendment of
    28 U.S.C. ' 124(d) to move Hudspeth County from the Pecos Division
    to the El Paso Division in the Western District of Texas;

$   Approved the recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee that the
    Judicial Conference express concern regarding legislation that would
    expunge case records in an involuntary bankruptcy case filed in bad
    faith against an individual and instead support a policy and procedure
    to retain case records upon dismissal of such cases with a notation, flag,
    or other means to signal to the public the nature of the dismissal.

$   Approved a letter responding to two requests from Congress, one for
    legislative language implementing the Judicial Conference=s March
    2003 position on class action legislation, and a second for the
    Conference=s views on S. 274 (108th Congress), the proposed Class
    Action Fairness Act of 2003, as ordered reported by the Senate
    Judiciary Committee on April 11, 2003;

$   On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
    Case Management, approved a joint legislative proposal of the judiciary
    and the Department of Justice, arrived at upon the request of Congress,
    to amend provisions of the E-Government Act of 2002, Public Law

                                             9
   Judicial Conference of the United States

           No. 107-347, that concern the development of rules addressing the
           protection of personal identifying information in court records.

   $       In light of uncertainties in the fiscal year 2004 appropriations process
           and the likelihood that the judiciary would be operating under a
           continuing resolution for up to two months, approved strategies for
           balancing the budget with anticipated resources during the period
           covered by the continuing resolution and also approved the issuance of
           interim allotments to the courts during the continuing resolution period.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it was
    briefed on the organization and functions of the Office of Legislative Affairs.
    The Committee also received a comprehensive briefing on the AO=s audit,
    review, and investigative assistance programs, and reviewed the status of
    implementation of internal control enhancements that were endorsed by the
    Committee in December 2000. The Committee discussed an initiative
    launched by Director Mecham in 2002 to post for comment on the judiciary=s
    intranet site draft versions of program changes, guides, and publications
    developed by the Administrative Office for the courts. This comment process
    has been successful and will be continued.


COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

   EMERGENCY AUTHORITY TO HOLD BANKRUPTCY
   COURT OUTSIDE A DISTRICT

            In the wake of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, some courts
   determined that federal court facilities in adjoining districts or circuits might be
   more readily accessible in the event of an emergency than facilities within the
   district. However, under the current statutory framework, bankruptcy judges
   are only specifically authorized to hold court within their own judicial districts




                                                     10
                                                                                   September 23, 20

(28 U.S.C. ' 152(c)). On recommendation of the Committee on the
Administration of the Bankruptcy System, the Judicial Conference agreed to
seek legislation to permit bankruptcy judges to hold court outside of their
districts and circuits in the event of an emergency. See also, infra, AEmergency
Authority to Hold Proceedings Outside a District or Circuit,@ p. 15.


TRAVEL BY RECALLED BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

         In March 2003, the Judicial Conference amended the Travel
Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policies
and Procedures, Vol. III-A, ch. C-V, to clarify that reimbursement of
transportation expenses for senior judges who commute between their homes
and the courthouse should be limited to the commuted mileage or public mass
transit fare rate, absent approval of a different rate by the circuit judicial
councils (JCUS-MAR 03, p. 17). Since the travel provision for recalled
bankruptcy judges contains similar language to the provision amended by the
Conference (Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, Vol. III, section B,
ch. VII, & 11), at this session, the Judicial Conference adopted a
recommendation of the Committee to amend the travel provision for
bankruptcy judges to make it consistent with the corresponding provision in
the Guide dealing with senior judge travel. See also, infra, AMagistrate Judge
Recall Regulations,@ pp. 31-32.


COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

        The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
reported that it endorsed proposals of the Committee on Court Administration
and Case Management to (1) amend provisions of the Bankruptcy Code to
implement the Conference policy on privacy and public access to bankruptcy
court records; and (2) amend the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee
Schedule. The Committee also recommended that the Judicial Conference
express concerns regarding pending legislation in the 108th Congress on
asbestos litigation reform and on involuntary petition filing. In order to
communicate those concerns to Congress in an expeditious manner, the
Executive Committee acted on the Conference=s behalf on each of these
matters. See supra, AAsbestos Legislation,@ p. 7 and AMiscellaneous Actions,@
pp. 7-9. In addition, the Committee approved fiscal year 2005 funding
recommendations for the areas within its program oversight; discussed
ways to


                                               11
   Judicial Conference of the United States

   limit growth in the judiciary=s budget; and was briefed on a wide range of
   topics, including mediation/arbitration by retired bankruptcy judges, and
   studies of bankruptcy case weights and court sharing of administrative
   resources.


COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
    FISCAL YEAR 2005 BUDGET REQUEST

           Facing a particularly dire budget environment, the Budget
    Committee recommended a fiscal year 2005 budget request that
    incorporated a number of cost-saving mechanisms, including
    modifications to the methodologies used to calculate the cost of staffing
    and non-salary formulae. The Judicial Conference approved the budget
    request subject to amendments necessary as a result of new legislation,
    actions of the Judicial Conference, or other reasons the Executive
    Committee considers necessary and appropriate.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on the Budget reported on the status of the judiciary=s
    fiscal year 2003 supplemental appropriations request and budget requests for
    FYs 2004 and 2005. The Committee recommended to the Executive
    Committee that the changes to the formula allotment methodologies that
    were incorporated in the fiscal year 2005 budget request also be used in
    developing the fiscal year 2004 and future financial plans. In addition,
    the Committee endorsed proposed increases to various judiciary fees
    being recommended to the Judicial Conference by the Court
    Administration and Case Management Committee.


COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
    GIFT REGULATIONS

           On recommendation of the Committee on Codes of Conduct, the
   Judicial Conference adopted revised regulations under title III of the Ethics
   Reform Act of 1989 concerning the giving, solicitation, or acceptance of
   certain gifts by officers and employees of the judicial branch, and directed

                                                   12
                                                                                        September 23, 2

    that they be published in Volume II of the Guide to Judiciary Policies and
    Procedures. The revisions were primarily technical and organizational in
    nature, intended to align the regulations more closely with the underlying
    statute, and to incorporate improvements and useful provisions from other
    sources.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

           The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last
    report to the Judicial Conference in March 2003, it had received 26 new
    written inquiries and issued 22 written advisory responses. During this
    period, the average response time for these requests was 21 days. The
    Chairman received and responded to 20 telephone inquiries. In addition,
    individual committee members responded to 148 inquiries from their
    colleagues.


COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
AND CASE MANAGEMENT

    MISCELLANEOUS FEES

             The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
    undertook a comprehensive review of the miscellaneous fees set by the
    Judicial Conference for the courts of appeals, the district courts, the United
    States Court of Federal Claims, the bankruptcy courts, and the Judicial Panel
    on Multidistrict Litigation, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. '' 1913, 1914, 1926, 1930,
    and 1932, respectively, and recommended several changes, including
    adjustments for inflation, specific fee increases, establishment of new fees, and
    clarification of certain provisions, as specifically noted below. The
    Committee=s recommendations were endorsed in relevant part by the Budget
    and Bankruptcy Committees.

            Inflationary increases. In September 1996, the Judicial Conference
    raised certain miscellaneous fees to account for inflation and rising court costs
    (JCUS-SEP 96, p. 54). At that time, the Committee on Court Administration
    and Case Management determined that it would be appropriate to review the
    miscellaneous fee schedules approximately every five years to determine if
    any inflationary adjustments were warranted. At this session, the Conference
    approved a recommendation of the Committee to adopt inflationary increases

                                                     13
Judicial Conference of the United States

to most miscellaneous fees.

        Court of Appeals Miscellaneous Fee Schedule.

        Appellate Docketing Fee. On recommendation of the Committee, the
Judicial Conference amended Item 1 of the Court of Appeals Miscellaneous
Fee Schedule to increase the fee for docketing a case on appeal or review, or
docketing any other proceeding, from $100 to $250. The Committee
recommended the increase after considering the benefits derived from, and the
resources required for, such filings and after comparing the appellate
docketing fee to other filing and docketing fees. An increase in this fee will
also result in an increase in Item 15 (fee for docketing an appeal in the
bankruptcy court) and Item 21 (fee for docketing a cross appeal in the
bankruptcy court) of the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule, both
of which track the appellate docketing fee.

        Videoconferencing Fee. The Conference adopted a recommendation
of the Committee to add a new, optional fee to the Court of Appeals
Miscellaneous Fee Schedule of $200 per remote location for the use, at the
request of counsel, of videoconferencing equipment in connection with an oral
argument. This discretionary fee would be used to defray the cost of
transmission lines and maintaining the videoconferencing equipment.

        Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule.

         Amendment Fee. On recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference amended Item 4 of the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee
Schedule, which requires a $20 fee for each amendment to the debtor=s list of
creditors, matrix, or mailing lists, to make explicit two exceptions that have
heretofore been made as a matter of policy: first, that no fee be charged to
change the address of a creditor or an attorney for a creditor listed on the
schedules; and second, that no fee be charged to add the name and address of
a listed creditor=s attorney.

        Reopening Fee. Item 11 of the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee
Schedule requires a fee for filing a motion to reopen a Bankruptcy Code case,
but allows a court to defer payment from trustees pending discovery of
additional assets. To clarify how this fee applies in situations in which no
assets are located and to encourage trustees to reopen cases where the
possibility of locating additional assets exists, the Committee recommended
that the following language be added to Item 11: AIf payment is deferred, the
fee shall be waived if no additional assets are discovered.@ The Conference
adopted the Committee=s recommendation.

                                               14
                                                                                    September 23, 2


         Fee for Splitting a Case. On recommendation of the Committee, the
Conference amended the fee for splitting a joint case filed under ' 302 of
title 11 of the United States Code into two separate cases at the request of a
debtor(s) (Item 19), from one-half the applicable filing fee, to the full cost of
filing such a case, since an entirely new case is being created.

         Fee for Filing a Motion to Lift Stay. Item 20 of the Bankruptcy Court
Miscellaneous Fee Schedule sets forth a fee Afor filing a motion to terminate,
annul, modify, or condition the automatic stay provided under ' 362(a) of
title 11, a motion to compel abandonment of property of the estate pursuant to
Rule 6007(b) of the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure, or a motion to
withdraw the reference of a case or proceeding under 28 U.S.C. ' 157(d).@ On
recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to make
explicit two exemptions from this fee that have been applied in practice: (a)
exemptions for motions to lift a co-debtor stay under 11 U.S.C. '' 1201 and
1301; and (b) exemptions for stipulations for court approval of an agreement
regarding relief from a stay. In addition, the Conference adopted a
recommendation of the Committee that the fee for filing motions listed in
Item 20 be amended from one-half the filing fee prescribed in 28 U.S.C.
' 1914(a) to the full filing fee, which is currently $150.


ELECTRONIC PUBLIC ACCESS FEE EXEMPTION POLICY

        The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
recommended, and the Judicial Conference adopted, amendments to the
Electronic Public Access Fee Schedule that articulate a national policy
regarding exemptions from electronic public access fees. The amendments
clarify that exemptions to the fee are only to be given upon a showing of
cause, are limited to specific categories of users, may be granted for a specific
period of time, may be revoked at the discretion of the court, and are only for
access related to the purpose for which the exemption was given. The
Committee also recommended, and the Conference agreed, that the current
30-page fee cap on the cost of obtaining Adocuments@ via PACER (JCUS-
MAR 02, p. 11) be extended to cover docket sheets and case-specific reports,
but not transcripts of court proceedings. A 30-page cap on the cost of
obtaining transcripts via PACER would result in a transcript cost that is
inconsistent with the current cost of obtaining those transcripts.




                                                  15
Judicial Conference of the United States



EMERGENCY AUTHORITY TO HOLD PROCEEDINGS
OUTSIDE A DISTRICT OR CIRCUIT

        Current law with respect to district courts and courts of appeals
(28 U.S.C. '' 141 and 48(b), respectively) authorizes special court sessions to
be held within the district and/or circuit in which the court is located.
Recognizing that places of holding court in adjoining districts and circuits are
often closer or more accessible to each other than are the closest places of
holding court within the same district and/or circuit, the Committee on Court
Administration and Case Management recommended that the Conference seek
legislation that makes explicit a court=s authority, in times of emergency, to
hold special court sessions outside of the district or the circuit in which a
court may be located. The Conference adopted the Committee=s
recommendation. See also, supra, AEmergency Authority to Hold Bankruptcy
Court Outside a District,@ pp. 9-10.


MODEL LOCAL RULES FOR ELECTRONIC FILING

        In September 2001, the Judicial Conference adopted model local rules
for electronic filing in civil and bankruptcy cases (JCUS-SEP/OCT 01, p. 50).
At this session, on recommendation of the Committee on Court
Administration and Case Management, in consultation with the Committee on
Rules of Practice and Procedure, the Conference adopted model local rules for
electronic filing in criminal cases, as well as minor amendments and
clarifications to the civil and bankruptcy model local rules. These model rules
are non-binding and are intended only to provide courts with guidance on the
implementation of electronic case filing. The Conference also agreed to
delegate to the Court Administration and Case Management Committee the
authority to make routine, technical and/or non-substantive modifications to
these model local rules.


PRIVACY AND PUBLIC ACCESS TO ELECTRONIC
CASE FILES

       In September 2001, the Judicial Conference approved a judiciary-wide
privacy policy addressing public remote electronic access to case files (JCUS-
SEP/OCT 01, pp. 48-50). The policy permits remote access to civil and
bankruptcy case files so long as certain personal data identifiers, such as
Social Security numbers and names of minor children, are modified or

                                                16
                                                                                    September 23, 2

partially redacted. Remote public electronic access to criminal case files was
prohibited, with the proviso that the policy would be reexamined within two
years. To facilitate that reexamination, in March 2002, the Judicial
Conference approved creation of a pilot program to allow selected courts to
provide such access (JCUS-MAR 02, p. 10). At this session, noting that a
study of the pilot courts revealed no evidence of harm to an individual as a
result of remote public access, and that such access reinforced the concept of
the courts as being an open, public institution, the Court Administration and
Case Management Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference
amend current Judicial Conference policy to permit remote public access to
electronic criminal case file documents to be the same as public access to
criminal case file documents at the courthouse. The Committee also
recommended that upon the effective date of any change in policy, the
Conference require that personal data identifiers be redacted by the filer of the
document, whether the document is filed electronically or on paper, as
follows:

       1.      Social Security numbers to the last four digits;
       2.      financial account numbers to the last four digits;
       3.      names of minor children to the initials;
       4.      dates of birth to the year; and
       5.      home addresses to city and state.

Further, recognizing the need for specific guidelines before the policy can
become effective, and noting concerns expressed by the Committee on
Criminal Law, the Committee recommended that the Conference delay the
effective date of this new policy until such time as the Conference approves
specific guidance on the implementation and operation of the policy to be
developed by the Committees on Court Administration and Case
Management, Criminal Law, and Defender Services. Finally, pending
approval of such guidance, the Committee recommended continuation of the
pilot project, with monitoring by the Federal Judicial Center. After
discussion, the Conference, with one member dissenting, adopted the
Committee=s recommendations.


ELECTRONIC ACCESS TO OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS

        After extensive study, the Committee on Court Administration and
Case Management recommended that the Judicial Conference adopt a policy
requiring courts that make electronic documents remotely available to the
public to make electronic transcripts of proceedings remotely available if such


                                                 17
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      transcripts are otherwise prepared. The Committee also recommended that
                      the policy include a process for redacting certain identifying information from
                      these documents in order to protect individual privacy and security and to be
                      consistent with the Judicial Conference policy on privacy and public access to
                      electronic case files. In addition, the Committee recommended that it be
                      delegated the authority to develop and issue guidance to the courts on
                      implementation of this policy. In making its recommendations, the
                      Committee specifically noted that it was not the intent of the policy to impact
                      court reporter income, and suggested that the Committee on Judicial
                      Resources examine this issue. After discussion, the Judicial Conference, with
                      one member dissenting, adopted the policy on electronic availability of
                      transcripts of court proceedings recommended by the Committee. However,
                      in light of concerns expressed about the effect of the policy on court reporter
                      compensation, the Conference deferred implementation of the policy until the
                      March 2004 Judicial Conference session, at which time the Conference will
                      consider a report of the Judicial Resources Committee on the impact of the
                      policy on court reporter compensation. The Conference also agreed to
                      delegate to the Committee the authority to develop and issue guidance to the
                      courts upon implementation of the policy.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                      reported that it approved a fiscal year 2005 funding request for lawbooks
                      and computer-assisted legal research and provided its recommendations
                      to the Budget Committee to be included in the overall budget request.
                      The Committee also considered how to provide assistance to the courts in
                      implementing the requirements of the E-Government Act of 2002 (Public
                      Law No. 107-347), which requires, among other things, that each
                      appellate, district and bankruptcy court maintain a website that provides
                      information on the clerk=s office and chambers; all written opinions
                      issued by the court, in a text-searchable format; and access to documents
                      filed or converted to electronic form. The Committee continued its
                      consideration of long-range planning issues, with a particular focus on
                      the need of the court system to provide court information in languages
                      other than English so as to ensure meaningful access to the federal courts
                      for all citizens.




                                                              18
                                                                  September 23, 2003

COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
    PRETRIAL SERVICES SUPERVISION MONOGRAPH

            On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial
    Conference approved revisions to a monograph entitled United States Pretrial
    Services Supervision, Publication 111, for publication and distribution to the
    courts. To be consistent with other Conference-approved guidance for
    officers, the document was renamed The Supervision of Federal Defendants,
    Monograph 111. The revisions incorporate Abest practice@ findings from
    research and other sources, and because those findings relate to the
    effectiveness of supervision in general, many of the revisions are similar to
    recently approved revisions to The Supervision of Federal Offenders,
    Monograph 109 (JCUS-MAR 03, pp. 11-12).


    JUDGMENTS IN A CRIMINAL CASE

             On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
    approved revised forms of judgments in criminal cases (AO 245B-245I) for
    publication and distribution to the courts. The revisions include certain
    technical and other changes required by new legislation. The Statement of
    Reasons was also amended to ensure that court-ordered findings that differ
    from information in presentence investigation reports are transmitted to
    Bureau of Prisons staff for use in classification and designation decisions and
    to facilitate better documentation of sentencing and departure actions taken by
    courts to help the Sentencing Commission perfect its data collection and
    reporting efforts. In addition, a new payment option has been added to the
    Schedule of Payments that defers the setting of a payment schedule until after
    an offender=s release from imprisonment to provide the court an opportunity to
    evaluate the offender=s earning capability at the time of release. Also on
    recommendation of the Committee, the Conference designated the Statement
    of Reasons as the mechanism by which courts comply with the requirements
    of the PROTECT Act to report reasons for sentences to the United States
    Sentencing Commission.


    THE PROTECT ACT

          As noted earlier, the PROTECT Act was signed into law on April 30,
    2003. This Act expands to national coverage a rapid-response system to help


                                            19
Judicial Conference of the United States

             find kidnapped children. However, just prior to passage, an amendment (Athe
             Feeney Amendment@) was adopted in the House that would have severely
             limited, in all cases, the authority of judges to depart downward from the
             sentencing guidelines. The Judicial Conference, through its Executive
             Committee, which acted on an expedited basis on recommendation of the
             Criminal Law Committee, opposed a number of provisions of the Feeney
             Amendment. See supra, ASentencing-Related Legislation,@ pp. 5-6. Although
             the enacted legislation included a somewhat narrower version of the sentencing
             amendments, it still contained provisions of concern to the judiciary.

                     At this session, the Judicial Conference considered, and slightly
             modified, a recommendation of the Criminal Law Committee seeking repeal
             of certain portions of the PROTECT Act. The Conference agreed by
             overwhelming majority (with one member voting Apresent@) that, because the
             judiciary and the Sentencing Commission were not consulted in advance
             concerning this legislation, it would support repeal of those provisions of the
             PROTECT Act that do not directly relate to child kidnapping or sex abuse,
             including the provisions previously acted upon on behalf of the Conference by
             the Executive Committee (see supra, ASentencing-Related Legislation,@
             pp. 5-6), as well as the following provisions of the Act on which the
             Conference has not previously taken positions:

             a.       The requirement that directs the Sentencing Commission to make
                      available to the House and Senate Judiciary Committees all underlying
                      documents and records it receives from the courts without established
                      standards on how these sensitive and confidential documents will be
                      handled and protected from inappropriate disclosure;

             b.       The requirement that the Sentencing Commission release data files
                      containing judge-specific information to the Attorney General;

             c.       The requirement that the Department of Justice submit judge-specific
                      sentencing guideline departure information to the House and Senate
                      Judiciary Committees;

             d.       The requirement that the Sentencing Commission promulgate
                      guidelines and policy statements to limit departures;

             e.       The requirement that the Sentencing Commission promulgate a policy
                      statement limiting the authority of the courts and the United States
                      attorneys= offices to develop and implement early disposition
                      programs; and

                                                             20
                                                                           September 23, 2003

    f.     The amendment of 28 U.S.C. ' 991(a) to limit the number of judges
           who may be members of the Sentencing Commission.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it was briefed on a
    proposed Department of Justice policy and on proposed Bureau of Prisons
    procedures for handling presentence investigation reports and that it continues
    to work with those agencies to ensure that the use and distribution of such
    reports is commensurate with their confidential nature. The Committee also
    authorized the distribution to the courts of revisions to The Federal Home
    Confinement Program for Defendants and Offenders, Monograph 113, that
    are technical in nature and do not require approval by the Judicial Conference.
     The Committee received reports on the status of a strategic assessment of the
    probation and pretrial services system, an ongoing study of administrative
    services, and the implementation of various probation and pretrial services
    system information technology initiatives.


COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
    CASE BUDGETING IN HIGH-COST CASES

            The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the
    Committee on Defender Services to add a new subparagraph 2.22B(4) to the
    Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act and Related
    Statutes (CJA Guidelines), Volume VII, Guide to Judiciary Policies and
    Procedures. The new section is intended to encourage courts to use case
    budgeting techniques in complex, non-capital panel attorney representations
    that appear likely to become or have become extraordinary in terms of cost.
    Similar provisions have already been included in paragraph 6.02F of the CJA
    Guidelines for capital cases (see JCUS-MAR 97, p. 23).


    CJA VOUCHER APPROVAL

            Under sections (d)(3) and (e)(3)of the Criminal Justice Act, 18 U.S.C.
    ' 3006A, and a death penalty provision of the Controlled Substances Act,
    21 U.S.C. ' 848(q)(10)(B), vouchers submitted by panel attorneys and
    investigative, expert, and other service providers that are in excess of certain


                                                    21
Judicial Conference of the United States

             statutory maximum amounts, must be approved by the chief judge of the
             circuit, who may delegate such approval authority to an active circuit judge.
             The Committee on Defender Services recommended that the Judicial
             Conference seek amendments to those statutes to include senior circuit judges
             and appropriate non-judicial officers qualified by training and legal
             experience to perform those tasks, among those to whom circuit chief judges
             may delegate authority. The proposed amendments would also allow a
             claimant to seek review by the chief judge in any case in which the delegate
             judge or non-judicial officer reduced an excess payment that had been
             certified as necessary by the court before which the services were provided.
             The Conference adopted the Committee=s recommendations.


             RELOCATION REGULATIONS

                     At this session, on recommendation of the Committee on Judicial
             Resources, concurred in by the Committee on Defender Services, the Judicial
             Conference adopted comprehensive relocation regulations for court and
             federal public defender organization employees, which authorize relocation
             reimbursement for federal public defenders and first assistant federal public
             defenders, if the chief judge of the hiring circuit certifies that the relocation is
             in the interest of the government and the chair of the Committee on Defender
             Services concurs. See infra, ARelocation Regulations,@ p. 28. Noting that
             community defender organizations are the functional equivalents of federal
             public defender organizations and that the level of responsibility of capital
             resource counsel is at least comparable to that of a first assistant defender, the
             Committee on Defender Services recommended, and the Judicial Conference
             agreed, that relocation reimbursement eligibility also be authorized forC

             a.       Executive directors and first assistant defenders in community
                      defender organizations, consistent with the policies set forth in the
                      relocation regulations applicable to federal public defender
                      organization personnel, except that reimbursement for individuals in
                      community defender organizations would be approved when the board
                      of directors of the hiring organization makes a determination that the
                      requested reimbursement is Ain the interest of the Defender Services
                      program,@ and the chair of the Committee on Defender Services
                      concurs; and

             b.       Capital resource counsel in federal defender organizations, pursuant to
                      the procedure applicable to the defender organization where the capital
                      resource counsel is to be stationed.


                                                               22
                                                                          September 23, 2003



    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Defender Services reported that it was briefed on
    the status of the Defender Services appropriation and considered ways in
    which a projected shortfall might be addressed. In addition, it discussed the
    long-term growth projected for the Criminal Justice Act program and
    identified several initiatives for potential cost containment. The Committee
    endorsed the use of surveys to address congressional concerns about the need
    for increasing the panel attorney hourly compensation rate in non-capital
    cases and to point out strengths or weaknesses in the quality of representation
    furnished by appointed counsel. Under its delegated authority from the
    Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR 89, pp. 16-17), the Committee approved FY
    2004 budgets for 74 federal defender organizations totaling $360,116,400.


COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
    JURISDICTIONAL IMPROVEMENTS

            As part of its jurisdictional improvements project, the Committee on
    Federal-State Jurisdiction recommended that the Judicial Conference seek
    seven amendments to title 28 of the United States Code to improve the clarity
    of the law and increase judicial efficiency. Six of the seven recommendations
    pertain to removal and remand procedures; the seventh relates to the
    definition of citizenship, for purposes of diversity jurisdiction, of insurance
    companies engaged in direct action litigation. After discussion, the Judicial
    Conference unanimously agreed to seek the following amendments to title 28
    of the United States Code:

    a.     Amend 28 U.S.C. ' 1446(b) to codify in multiple-defendant cases the
           requirement that all defendants join in or consent to a notice of
           removal, to give each defendant 30 days in which to have the
           opportunity to remove or consent to removal, and to permit earlier-
           served defendants, who did not remove within their own 30-day time
           period, to consent to a timely notice of removal by a later-served
           defendant;

    b.     Address situations where the amount in controversy in diversity
           jurisdiction cases is unspecified or in doubt by amending 28 U.S.C.
           ' 1446(b) to commence the 30-day period for removal when it
           becomes known, through responses to discovery or information that

                                                    23
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      enters the record of the state proceeding, that the amount in
                      controversy exceeds the statutory minimum figure, and to create an
                      exception to the current one-year period for removal upon a showing
                      of plaintiff=s deliberate non-disclosure of the amount in controversy;

             c.       Amend 28 U.S.C. ' 1446(b) to authorize district courts to permit
                      removal after the one-year period in appropriate circumstances;

             d.       Amend 28 U.S.C. ' 1441(c) to clarify the right of access to federal
                      court upon removal for the adjudication of separate federal law claims
                      that are joined with state law claims by requiring district courts to
                      retain the federal claims and remand unrelated state law claims;

             e.       Amend 28 U.S.C. ' 1446 to separate the removal provisions relating to
                      civil and criminal proceedings into two statutes;

             f.       Amend 28 U.S.C. ' 1446(a) to replace the specific reference to
                      Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure with a generic
                      reference to the rules governing pleadings and motions in civil actions
                      in federal court; and

             g.       Amend 28 U.S.C. ' 1332(c) to extend to insurers in direct action
                      litigation the same definition of citizenship as that previously adopted
                      by the Judicial Conference with regard to corporations with foreign
                      contacts.


             NLRB ORDERS

                     In May 1990, the Executive Committee, on behalf of the Judicial
             Conference, approved, after endorsement by the Federal-State Jurisdiction
             Committee, a proposal of the Federal Courts Study Committee that the
             Conference seek amendment of 29 U.S.C. ' 160 to make National Labor
             Relations Board (NLRB) orders self-enforcing and to give jurisdiction over
             contempt actions and actions to execute judgments to the district courts
             (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 62). After several unsuccessful attempts to pursue this
             proposal through the judiciary=s courts improvement bill, and at the request of
             the Executive Committee, the Federal-State Jurisdiction Committee revisited
             this position. The Committee noted that the policy behind the 1990
             Conference position remains essentially sound, and that enactment of the
             proposed amendments would likely result in efficiency gains for the judiciary.
              However, the Committee also recognized that a change in the law is most
             unlikely because the NLRB has declined to comment on the legislation.
             Therefore, the Committee recommended that the Conference policy be
             modified to indicate that the Conference Asupports in principle@ the legislative

                                                               24
                                                                            September 23, 2003

    amendments. In that way, the position could be used to support the efforts of
    other entities if they chose to pursue similar legislation in the future, but the
    judiciary would no longer actively pursue the legislation itself. The
    Conference adopted the Committee=s recommendation.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it
    made recommendations to the Judicial Conference on the claims resolution
    process proposed in the Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2003
    (S. 1125, 108th Congress), on class action legislation, and on Article III status
    for the District Court of Guam. As these issues needed to be addressed on an
    expedited basis, the Executive Committee acted in each instance on behalf of
    the Conference. See supra, AAsbestos Legislation,@ p. 7, and AMiscellaneous
    Actions,@ pp. 7-9. The Committee also heard a presentation on federal-state
    coordination of complex litigation and received updates on a number of
    issues, including state-federal judicial education initiatives, and proposed
    changes to the Social Security claims process.


COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
    STATUTORY FILING REQUIREMENTS

            Judicial Officers. The Committee on Financial Disclosure, in
    consultation with the Committees on Codes of Conduct and Security and
    Facilities, recommended that the Judicial Conference seek legislation to create
    a separate financial disclosure statute for judges that would make the financial
    disclosure reporting requirements for judicial officers more consistent with
    the narrowly focused role of the judiciary and with judges= recusal obligations
    under 28 U.S.C. ' 455, and at the same time address legitimate security
    concerns of the judiciary. Under this proposal, existing reporting
    requirements would be amended to eliminate the value and income thresholds
    for reporting investment assets, the value and income codes for investment
    assets reported, and the reporting of purchases or sales of investment assets.
    In addition, copies of judges= reports would be required to be made available
    at the courthouse pursuant to regulations established by the Judicial
    Conference. The Conference agreed to seek legislation consistent in principle
    with the Committee=s proposed draft legislation, which would change and
    make more meaningful judicial officers= obligations to prepare and file
    financial disclosure reports.

                                                     25
Judicial Conference of the United States


                     Judicial employees. On July 16, 2003, the Office of Government
             Ethics (OGE) transmitted to Congress proposed legislation to simplify the
             financial disclosure requirements for all three branches of government by
             increasing the thresholds for reporting income, liabilities, and investments and
             reducing the number of value categories for reporting. The Committee
             reviewed the proposal and determined that the provisions would be
             appropriate for non-judge employees of the judiciary, but not for judicial
             officers (see above). On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
             Conference agreed to support the inclusion of non-judge employees of the
             judiciary in the OGE=s proposed amendments to the Ethics in Government Act
             transmitted to Congress on July 16, 2003.


             COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                     The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of July
             15, 2003, the Committee had received 3,574 financial disclosure reports
             and certifications for the calendar year 2002, including 1,269 reports and
             certifications from Supreme Court justices, Article III judges, and
             judicial officers of special courts; 323 from bankruptcy judges; 507 from
             magistrate judges; and 1,475 from judicial employees.


     COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
             COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                     The Committee on Information Technology reported that both an
             assessment of the adequacy of security measures for the judiciary=s data
             communications network and a comprehensive study to examine the costs
             associated with the judiciary=s information technology (IT) investments are
             nearing completion. The Committee discussed efforts underway to identify
             locally developed IT applications that could be shared across the judiciary. IT
             training for judges was reviewed, and the Committee suggested focusing
             training more on how judges can apply technical tools to accomplish day-to-
             day judicial business. The Committee also endorsed resource requirements
             and priorities for the programs under its jurisdiction and received updates on a
             number of information technology projects and issues.
             COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                                             26
                                                                  September 23, 2003


            The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that during the
    period from January 1, 2003, to June 30, 2003, a total of 62 intercircuit
    assignments, undertaken by 48 Article III judges, were processed and
    recommended by the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments and approved by
    the Chief Justice. In addition, the Committee aided courts requesting
    assistance by identifying and obtaining judges willing to take assignments.


COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported that it
    scheduled its Spring 2003 meeting to coincide with the Center for
    Democracy's annual international judicial conference, at which more than 100
    foreign jurists participated. The conference focused on judicial independence
    and strengthening the rule of law. The Committee also reported on its
    judicial reform activities throughout the world, including in the Russian
    Federation, Ecuador, Ghana, and Korea. In May 2003, the Administrative
    Office assumed responsibility for the database of federal judges, court
    administrators, and defenders interested in assisting foreign judiciaries, which
    had been developed at the Committee=s request by the Federal Judicial
    Center.


COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
    TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES
    JUSTICES AND JUDGES

            Special Lower Fares. On recommendation of the Committee on
    the Judicial Branch, the Judicial Conference approved an amendment to
    the Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges expressly to
    authorize judges reimbursement for special lower fares obtained for
    official travel, including non-refundable fares, and to provide judges with
    clear and specific guidance on the use of such fares.


           Recalled Judges= Official Duty Stations. The Committee also
    recommended, and the Conference approved, an amendment to the travel
    regulations to clarify that the official duty station for a recalled

                                           27
Judicial Conference of the United States

             bankruptcy or magistrate judge is the abode the retired judge designates
             in writing to the Administrative Office as his or her principal residence.
             This brings the travel regulations into conformity with 28 U.S.C. ' 374
             and Judicial Conference regulations on the recall of retired bankruptcy
             and magistrate judges, which relieve recalled judges of any restrictions
             as to their residence, thereby treating them similarly to senior Article III
             judges.


             JUDICIAL COMPENSATION

                     Noting a recently released report of the National Commission on
             the Public Service, which identified judicial salaries as the most egregious
             example of the failure of federal compensation policies and recommended
             an immediate increase in judicial salaries, the Judicial Branch Committee
             recommended that the Judicial Conference endorse and vigorously seek
             legislation that would increase judicial salaries by 16.5 percent, which
             would yield an average of $24,948, across all levels of judicial offices. By
             mail ballot concluded on May 5, 2003, the Judicial Conference voted
             unanimously to approve the Committee=s recommendation.


             COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                     The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it continues to
             work toward securing judges= compensation legislation. The Committee has
             been assisted in its efforts by representatives from the organized bar and other
             groups concerned about the independence and quality of the federal judiciary.
              The Committee also continues to work to educate the media and the public on
             the role of the federal judiciary, as well as the needs of the federal courts and
             the problems they face in discharging their duties.


    COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
             VOLUNTARY SEPARATION INCENTIVE
             PAYMENT AUTHORITY

                   Pursuant to authority established in the Homeland Security Act of
             2002, Public Law No. 107-296, and on recommendation of the Committee
             on Judicial Resources, the Judicial Conference adopted for fiscal year
             2004 a judiciary voluntary separation incentive payment program for


                                                             28
                                                                  September 23, 2003

Court Personnel System employees, consistent with the requirements of
the Act. The program, which will use courts= decentralized funds, will
provide unit executives with flexibility in reducing staffing levels in
furtherance of strategic workforce- reshaping goals.


RELOCATION REGULATIONS

       The judiciary is authorized to pay the relocation expenses of
employees of the judicial branch pursuant to chapter 57 of title 5 of the
United States Code and implementing regulations adopted by the General
Services Administration (41 C.F.R. Part 302). The judiciary administers
the program in conformance with those regulations as well as with
interim policies on court employee eligibility established by the Executive
Committee. At this session, on recommendation of the Judicial Resources
Committee, with the concurrence of the Defender Services Committee,
the Judicial Conference adopted comprehensive relocation regulations
for court and federal public defender organization employees that largely
incorporate, with only three substantive changes, the interim policies and
are substantially similar to relocation regulations adopted for justices
and judges in March 1999 (JCUS-MAR 99, pp. 20-21). Two of the
substantive changes involve overseas law clerk reimbursements, and the
third gives to the Director of the Administrative Office the express
authority to grant exceptions to the eligibility requirements of the
regulations where the Director finds it to be Ain the interest of the
government,@ if the exception has been approved by the chief judge of the
receiving court, and the circuit judicial council has concurred (see also,
supra, ARelocation Regulations,@ p. 21).


LAW CLERK QUALIFICATIONS

       The Committee on Judicial Resources, with the concurrence of the
Magistrate Judges Committee, recommended that the qualifications
standards for Aelbow@ law clerks be expanded to allow experience as a pro
se law clerk in the federal courts to be considered as equivalent to elbow
law clerk experience for purposes of establishing the grade level for elbow
law clerks. The Judicial Conference adopted the Committee=s
recommendation.




                                             29
Judicial Conference of the United States



             SENIOR STAFF ATTORNEYS

                     The Committee on Judicial Resources recommended that the
             Judicial Conference raise the target grade for senior staff attorneys from
             JSP-16 to JSP-17 after considering the role of staff attorneys in the
             administration of the appellate courts and their crucial managerial and
             legal responsibilities. The Judicial Conference adopted the Committee=s
             recommendation, which is to be implemented upon request from each
             circuit chief judge, subject to the availability of funds.


             BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATORS

                     The Committee on Judicial Resources, with the concurrence of the
             Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System,
             recommended that the Judicial Conference approve six new positions for
             fiscal year 2005 for the bankruptcy administrators, one in the Middle
             District of Alabama, two in the Eastern District of North Carolina, one in
             the Middle District of North Carolina, and two in the Western District of
             North Carolina. The Conference adopted the Committee=s
             recommendation and also agreed that accelerated funding for the
             positions should be provided in fiscal year 2004, subject to the availability
             of funds.


             COURT INTERPRETERS

                     In order to address an increased volume of Spanish/English
             interpreting events, the Judicial Conference, on recommendation of the
             Committee on Judicial Resources, authorized two staff court interpreter
             positions for fiscal year 2005: one for the Middle District of Florida and
             one for the District of Utah. The Conference also approved accelerated
             funding in fiscal year 2004 for the position in the District of Utah, subject
             to the availability of funds.


             JUDICIAL PANEL ON MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION

                     The Committee on Judicial Resources recommended, and the
             Judicial Conference approved, a staffing formula for the Judicial Panel
             on Multidistrict Litigation, to be implemented in fiscal year 2004, subject
             to the availability of funds. The formula is based on the work that is

                                                           30
                                                                       September 23, 2003

performed by the Panel and is expected to determine adequate and
accurate levels of staffing to ensure the continued successful completion
of necessary Panel support functions.

PAY PARITY

       Legislation pending in the 108th Congress, if enacted, would lift the
current pay caps for high-level executive branch employees. In order to
maintain the judiciary=s competitiveness in recruitment and retention of
employees, and consistent with past Judicial Conference policy
supporting pay parity, the Judicial Conference adopted a
recommendation of the Committee to authorize the Director of the
Administrative Office to pursue legislative opportunities to ensure pay
parity between judicial and executive branch employees, with the
understanding that (1) the basic pay plus incentive awards for any
judicial branch employee should not exceed the salary of a district court
judge; and (2) the implementation of any changes would require further
Judicial Conference approval, as appropriate.


COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

        The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it approved a
resolution that endorsed a two-percent Aproductivity adjustment@ for fiscal
year 2005 budget formulation purposes that is expected to save almost $40
million if it is applied to all court programs. The Committee declined to
recommend that either senior staff attorneys or circuit librarians be allowed to
establish a single Type II deputy position, and tabled a request to recommend
allowing a second Type II deputy position for large and complex district and
bankruptcy courts, pending a report from the Administrative Office. Also, the
Committee decided to table for one year the issue of the appropriate use of the
Temporary Emergency Fund, and asked the Administrative Office to continue
to monitor financial data regarding the use of the fund.




                                                31
Judicial Conference of the United States

             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
             OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                      DIVERSITY IN THE MAGISTRATE JUDGE
                      SELECTION PROCESS

                            The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges
                      System recommended that the Judicial Conference resolve that:

                      1.       Each district court, as part of the magistrate judge selection process,
                               report on its efforts to achieve diversity by providing information
                               about the dissemination of the notice of a vacancy in a magistrate
                               judge position, and on its efforts to ensure a diverse merit selection
                               panel and to inform panel members of their obligations to make an
                               affirmative effort to identify and give due consideration to all qualified
                               applicants, including women and members of minority groups; and

                      2.       Each district court and merit selection panel report on the race/ethnic
                               group and gender of (1) the merit selection panel; (2) all those
                               interviewed by the panel for the magistrate judge position; (3) the five
                               applicants the panel determined as best qualified and whose names
                               were submitted to the court; and (4) the individual selected and
                               appointed to fill the magistrate judge position.

                      After discussion, the Judicial Conference voted to recommit the
                      recommendations to the Committee.


                      MAGISTRATE JUDGE RECALL REGULATIONS

                     FBI Background Investigations. On recommendation of the
             Magistrate Judges Committee, the Judicial Conference approved
             amendments to the Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United
             States Establishing Standards and Procedures for the Recall of United
             States Magistrate Judges (ad hoc recall regulations) and the Regulations
             of the Judicial Conference of the United States Governing the Extended
             Service Recall of Retired United States Magistrate Judges (extended
             service recall regulations) to require that, before beginning recall service
             (1) a retired magistrate judge who has been separated from federal
             judicial service for more than one year, but no more than ten years, be
             subject to a name and finger print check by the FBI, a tax check by the
             Internal Revenue Service, and a credit check by the Office of Personnel

                                                                32
                                                                       September 23, 2003

Management; and (2) a retired magistrate judge who has been separated
from federal judicial service for more than ten years be subject to an FBI
full-field background investigation with a 15-year scope.

        Extensions of Recall Terms. The ad hoc and extended service
recall regulations for magistrate judges require the Magistrate Judges
Committee to approve all requests for intercircuit service of a recalled
magistrate judge and all new requests for recall service in which the
magistrate judge=s salary and reimbursable travel and subsistence
expenses are expected to exceed an annual total of $50,000, but they do
not explicitly require approval of requests for extensions of these recall
terms. To ensure that there is a continuing need for a recalled judge, the
Committee recommended, and the Conference approved, amendments to
the ad hoc and extended service recall regulations to require such
Committee approval.

        Travel by Recalled Magistrate Judges. In March 2003, the
Judicial Conference amended section B.3.a.(7)(b) of the Travel
Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, Guide to Judiciary
Policies and Procedures, Vol. III-A, ch. C-V, to clarify that
reimbursement of transportation expenses for senior judges who
commute between their homes and the courthouse should be limited to
the commuted mileage or public mass transit fare rate, absent the
approval of the circuit judicial council (JCUS-MAR 03, p. 17). Since the
ad hoc and extended service recall regulations for retired magistrate
judges contain identical provisions to the one amended by the Conference
that dealt with senior judges, the Conference approved a Committee
recommendation that the Conference amend the recall regulations to be
consistent with section B.3.a.(7)(b) of the judges= travel regulations. See
also, supra, ATravel by Recalled Bankruptcy Judges,@ p. 10.


CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

        After consideration of the report of the Committee on the
Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of
the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial
councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the following
changes in positions, salaries, locations, and arrangements for full-time and
part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact are to
be effective when appropriated funds are available.




                                                33
Judicial Conference of the United States

             SECOND CIRCUIT

             Eastern District of New York

             1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                      Brooklyn;

             2.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Central
                      Islip; and

             3.       Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                      magistrate judge positions in the district.

             District of Vermont

                      Made no change in the district=s number of magistrate judge positions
                      or in the location or arrangements of the current magistrate judge
                      position.

             FOURTH CIRCUIT

             District of Maryland

             4.       Converted the part-time magistrate judge position at Hagerstown to
                      full-time status, and designated the position as Baltimore or Greenbelt;

             2.       Redesignated as Greenbelt the full-time magistrate judge position
                      currently designated as Greenbelt or Baltimore; and

             3.       Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                      the other magistrate judge positions in the district.

             FIFTH CIRCUIT

             Northern District of Mississippi

                      Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                      magistrate judge positions in the district.

             Northern District of Texas

                      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                      Wichita Falls from Level 6 ($11,951 per annum) to Level 4 ($35,854
                      per annum).


                                                              34
                                                                     September 23, 2003

SIXTH CIRCUIT

Eastern District of Tennessee

5.     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
       Chattanooga; and

2.     Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Western District of Arkansas

       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.

District of North Dakota

       Extended the temporary increase in the salary of the part-time
       magistrate judge position at Grand Forks from Level 5 ($23,902 per
       annum) to Level 2 ($59,757 per annum) through March 31, 2004, or
       until such date as the full-time magistrate judge at Bismarck resumes
       his full duties, whichever is earlier.

TENTH CIRCUIT

Eastern District of Oklahoma

       Redesignated as Muskogee the full-time magistrate judge position
       currently designated as McAlester.

ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

Middle District of Georgia

       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.




                                               35
Judicial Conference of the United States



             ACCELERATED FUNDING

                     On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
             agreed to designate for accelerated funding in fiscal year 2004 the new
             full-time magistrate judge positions at Brooklyn, New York; Central
             Islip, New York; Chattanooga, Tennessee; and Baltimore or Greenbelt,
             Maryland.


             COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                      The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges
             System reported that it decided to defer, but not withdraw, its position that
             service as an arbitrator or mediator by retired magistrate judges and
             bankruptcy judges should not be considered the practice of law under the
             Regulations of the Director Implementing the Retirement and Survivors=
             Annuities for Bankruptcy Judges and Magistrates Act. The Committee also
             discussed possible additional criteria for the creation of new full-time
             magistrate judge positions and decided that the current Judicial Conference
             criteria are comprehensive and that the Committee=s detailed review of
             each request ensures that only justified requests are approved. Further,
             the Committee considered an item on law clerk assistance for Social Security
             appeals that was also considered by the Court Administration and Case
             Management and Judicial Resources Committees, and requested that detailed
             materials be prepared on this subject for these committees= December 2003
             meetings.


    COMMITTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
    CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS
             COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                     The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability
             Orders reported that, in the absence of any petition before it for review of
             judicial council action under the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, it has
             continued to monitor congressional activity in the area of judicial conduct and
             disability.




                                                            36
                                                                    September 23, 2003

COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
    FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

            The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
    Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1011
    (Responsive Pleading or Motion in Involuntary and Ancillary Cases), 2002
    (Notices to Creditors, Equity Security Holders, United States, and United
    States Trustee), and 9014 (Contested Matters), together with Committee notes
    explaining their purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference approved the
    amendments and authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court for its
    consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and
    transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law. In addition, the
    Committee submitted, and the Conference approved, a proposed new Official
    Form 21 (Statement of Social Security Number) to take effect on December 1,
    2003.


    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

            The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
    Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Criminal Rule 35 (Correcting or
    Reducing a Sentence), as well as comprehensive revisions to the rules
    governing 28 U.S.C. ' 2254 cases and ' 2255 proceedings and accompanying
    forms, together with Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent.
    The proposed amendments to the ' 2254 and ' 2255 rules were intended to
    conform those rules to recent legislation and to reflect the best practices of the
    courts, as well as to improve their clarity, consistent with the recent
    comprehensive style revision of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
    The Judicial Conference approved the amendments and authorized their
    transmittal to the Supreme Court for its consideration with a recommendation
    that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance
    with the law.


    FEDERAL RULES OF EVIDENCE

            The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
    Judicial Conference a proposed amendment to Evidence Rule 804(b)(3)
    (Hearsay Exceptions; Declarant Unavailable), together with Committee notes
    explaining its purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference approved the
    amendment and authorized its transmittal to the Supreme Court for its

                                             37
Judicial Conference of the United States

             consideration with a recommendation that it be adopted by the Court and
             transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


             COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                     The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
             approved for publication proposed amendments to Rules 4, 26, 27, 28, 32, 34,
             35, and 45, and new Rules 28.1 and 32.1 of the Federal Rules of Appellate
             Procedure; Rules 1007, 3004, 3005, 4008, 7004, and 9006 of the Federal
             Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure; Rules 6, 24, 27, 45, and new Rule 5.1 of the
             Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and Rules B and C of the Supplemental
             Rules for Certain Admiralty and Maritime Claims; and Rules 12.2, 29, 32,
             32.1, 33, 34, and 45, and new Rule 59 of the Federal Rules of Criminal
             Procedure. The Committee also approved publishing at a later date, for public
             comment, proposed style revisions of Rules 1 through 15 of the Federal Rules
             of Civil Procedure as part of a larger package of revisions to other rules
             currently under review.


    COMMITTEE ON SECURITY AND FACILITIES
            FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

                    In order to address a growing backlog of construction projects on the
            annual Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, the Committee on Security and
            Facilities considered various options, including freezing the current Five-
            Year Plan. However, the Committee also wanted to address intolerable
            security and operational problems in three southwest border courts and in
            Los Angeles, California. After consulting with the circuit judicial
            councils, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference take
            the following actions:

            a.       Designate judicial space emergencies in Los Angeles, California; El
                     Paso, Texas; San Diego, California; and Las Cruces, New Mexico,
                     and display these projects without scores, but in priority order,
                     above the other projects on the first year of the FYs 2005-2009
                     Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan to convey the critical housing
                     needs at those locations;




                                                           38
                                                                  September 23, 2003

b.     Approve the Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan for FYs 2005-
       2009, which consists of the FYs 2004-2008 Five-Year Plan as
       modified by the designation of the four judicial space emergencies;
       and

c.     Freeze the annual five-year plans until not more than $500 million
       of courthouse projects remain on the first year.

The Conference adopted the Committee=s recommendations.


U.S. COURTS DESIGN GUIDE

       The placement of a federal defender office in close proximity to law
enforcement offices could conflict with the defender=s mission to function
as an independent law office that requires the trust, confidence, and
cooperation of its clients for effective representation. The Committee on
Security and Facilities, in consultation with the Defender Services
Committee, therefore recommended that the Judicial Conference amend
the U.S. Courts Design Guide, Chapter 3, page 3-14 and Chapter 10, page
10-27, with regard to federal defender office space to clarify that federal
defenders= staffed offices should be located within reasonable walking
distance of the courthouse; must be located outside the courthouse or
other federal facility housing law enforcement agencies unless the federal
defender determines that being in such buildings would not compromise
the organization=s mission; and if within such buildings, must be, at a
minimum, on a different floor from the law enforcement agencies. The
Judicial Conference approved the Committee=s recommendations.


TENANT ALTERATIONS PROJECTS

        On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
agreed to urge circuit judicial councils to begin capital planning and
prioritizing non-prospectus tenant alterations projects for two to three
years in the future and to include a bankruptcy court representative on
judicial council space committees to ensure that all courts have an
opportunity to provide input.




                                             39
Judicial Conference of the United States



             COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                     The Committee on Security and Facilities reported that it discussed and
             endorsed for review by other Judicial Conference committees several options
             for controlling future rental costs, which currently constitute approximately
             20 percent of the judiciary=s budget. The Committee also discussed two U.S.
             Marshals Service studies required by the FY 2003 Omnibus Appropriations
             Act, Public Law No. 108-7: a nationwide courthouse security survey and an
             independent study of the relationships among the Department of Homeland
             Security, the U.S. Marshals Service, and the judiciary as they relate to the court
             security program. The Committee was briefed on a number of ongoing
             programs and projects, including a non-prospectus tenant alterations
             project review, a Temporary Emergency Fund survey, the building
             management delegation program, and the judiciary=s emergency
             preparedness program.


     MEMORIAL RESOLUTION
            The Judicial Conference approved the following resolution noting the
     death of the Honorable Edwin L. Nelson of the United States District Court for
     the Northern District of Alabama, Chair of the Information Technology
     Committee from 2000 to 2003:

                     The Judicial Conference of the United States notes with
              sadness the death of the Honorable Edwin L. Nelson, on May 17,
              2003, near Birmingham, Alabama.

                      Judge Nelson served with distinction on the federal bench for
              nearly 30 years, first as a magistrate judge and then as a district judge
              since 1990. As a member of the Judicial Conference Committee on
              Information Technology (1997-2003) and as its chair (2000-2003),
              Judge Nelson played a pivotal role during a period of unprecedented
              technological change and evolution through his ability to facilitate
              cooperation and communication. Judge Nelson was a man of
              integrity, courage, wisdom, and wit, and will be missed by all who
              knew him.

                    The members of the Judicial Conference convey their deepest
              sympathies to Judge Nelson=s widow, Linda, and to his family.



                                                              40
                                                                   September 23, 2003



FUNDING
           All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure
    of funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference
    subject to the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the
    Conference might establish for the use of available resources.




                                             Chief Justice of the United
    States
                                             Presiding




                                              41
                                                                September 23, 2003

INDEX

Administrative Office, Committee on the, 9

Administrative Office of the United States Courts
     database for assisting foreign judiciaries, 26
     magistrate judge positions, 32
     pay parity, judicial/executive branches, 30
     relocation reimbursement eligibility exceptions, 28

Appropriations
     budget request, FY 2005, 11, 30
     continuing resolution, FY 2004, 9
     Criminal Justice Act panel attorney payments, 6-7
     defender organization funding, 22
     Fees of Jurors and Commissioners account, 6-7
     reprogramming request, FY 2003, 6-7
     Salaries and Expenses account, 6-7
     shortfall, FY 2003, 6-7
     supplemental request, FY 2003, 6-7

Asbestos legislation, 7, 24

Automation (see information technology)

Automation and Technology, Committee on (see Information Technology, Committee
on)

Background checks/investigations, 31-32

Baird, Lourdes G., 4-5

Bankruptcy administrators
     staff, 29

Bankruptcy judges (see judges, bankruptcy)

Bankruptcy rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Bankruptcy system (see also judges, bankruptcy)
     asbestos legislation, 7
     bankruptcy administrator staffing, 29

                                           i
Judicial Conference of the United States

Bankruptcy system (continued)
      electronic case filing, model local rules, 15
      emergency court sessions outside a district/circuit, 9-10
      involuntary bankruptcy case, bad faith, 8
      judicial council space committees, bankruptcy representative, 38
      miscellaneous fees, 10, 12-14
         amendment of debtor=s lists, 13
         docketing a cross appeal, 13
         docketing an appeal, 13
         electronic public access fees, 14
         filing a motion to lift stay 14
         inflationary increases, 12
         reopening a case, 13
         splitting a case, 14
      privacy/public access to court records, 10, 15-16
      rules of practice and procedure, 36, 37

Bankruptcy System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 7, 8, 9-11, 12, 29

Budget (see appropriations)

Budget, Committee on the, 11, 17

Cacheris, James C., 4-5

Case management (see court administration)

Chief judges (see judges, chief)

Circuit councils (see circuit judicial councils)

Circuit judges (see judges, circuit)

Circuit judicial councils
       Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 37-38
       magistrate judge positions, 32
       Ninth Circuit, Article III status for District Court of Guam, 8
       relocation reimbursement, eligibility, 28
       space committees, 38
       tenant alterations projects planning, 38
Civil rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

                                             ii
                                                                        September 23, 2003

Class actions, 8, 24

Codes of Conduct, Committee on, 11-12, 24

Community defender organizations (see defender services)

Compensation
     court reporters, 16-17
     Criminal Justice Act panel attorneys, 6-7, 22
     judges, 27
     magistrate judge, part-time, 7
     pay parity, executive/judicial branches, 30

Conduct and Disability Orders, Committee to Review
Circuit Council, 35

Congress (see also appropriations; legislation, pending)
      appropriations act, FY 2003, 39
      reporting requirements, criminal cases, 5-6, 18-20
      reprogramming request, FY 2003, 6-7
      rules of practice and procedure, 36-37
      sentencing guideline amendments, 5-6, 18-19

Controlled Substances Act, 20

Court administration (see also bankruptcy system; courts of appeals; district courts;
jury administration; magistrate judges system; records)
       electronic case filing, model local rules, 15
       electronic public access fee, exemption policy, 14
       electronic public access to court information, 15-16, 16-17, 17
       emergency court sessions outside a district/circuit, 9-10, 15
       fee cap, 14
       fees, miscellaneous, 12-14
       places of holding court, 8
       privacy/electronic access to case files, 8-9, 10, 15-16, 16-17
       Social Security appeals, 35
       transcripts, electronic public access, 16-17

Court Administration and Case Management, Committee on, 8, 8-9, 10, 11, 12-17, 35


Court interpreters, 29


                                           iii
Judicial Conference of the United States



Court of Federal Claims
      electronic public access fee exemptions, 14
      fee cap, 14
      miscellaneous fees, 12

Court Personnel System, 27-28

Court reporters
      compensation, 16-17

Courthouses (see space and facilities)

Courtrooms (see space and facilities)

Courts of appeals (see also court administration)
      electronic public access to court information, 15-16, 16-17, 17
      emergency court sessions outside a circuit, 15
      miscellaneous fees, 12-14
          appellate docketing fee, 13
          electronic public access fees, 14
          inflationary increase, 13
          videoconferencing fee, 13
      rules of practice and procedure, 37
      senior staff attorneys, 29
      sentencing, standard of review, 5-6

Criminal Justice Act (CJA) (see also defender services; federal defenders)
      case-budgeting, high-cost cases, 20
      panel attorney
         compensation, 22
         payments, 6-7
      voucher approval, 20-21

Criminal law (see also defender services; probation and pretrial services system)
      access to criminal case files, 15-16
      criminal cases, reporting requirements, 5-6, 18, 18-20
      downward departures, sentencing guidelines, 5-6, 18, 18-20
      early disposition programs, 19
      electronic case filing, model local rules, 15
      judgment forms, 18
Criminal law (continued)

                                           iv
                                                                         September 23, 2003
       local rules, 15
       presentence investigation reports, 20
       pretrial services supervision monograph, 18
       privacy, 15-16
       records, 5-6, 18, 18-20
       rules of practice and procedure, 36, 37
       Schedule of Payments, 18
       sentencing guidelines, 5-6, 18, 18-20
       Statement of Reasons, 18

Criminal Law, Committee on, 5-6, 16, 18-20

Criminal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Defender services (see also Criminal Justice Act; federal defenders)
      case budgeting, high-cost cases, 20
      CJA voucher approval, 20
      defender organization funding, 22
      location of offices, 38

Defender Services, Committee on, 16, 20-22, 28, 38

Department of Homeland Security, 39

Department of Justice, 8, 19, 20
      Attorney General, 19
      Bureau of Prisons, 18, 20
      Federal Bureau of Investigation, 31-32
      United States attorneys= offices, 19
      United States Marshals Service, 39

Design Guide (see U. S. Courts Design Guide)

Director, Administrative Office of the United States Courts, 9, 28, 30, 32, 35

District courts (see also bankruptcy system; court administration; jury administration;
magistrate judges system; probation and pretrial services system)
        court interpreter positions, 29
        diversity, magistrate judge selection, 31
        downward departures in sentencing, 5-6, 18, 18-20
        early disposition programs, authority, 18-19
District courts (continued)
        electronic case filing, model local rules, 15

                                            v
Judicial Conference of the United States

         electronic public access fees, 14
         electronic public access to court information, 14, 15-16, 16-17, 17
         emergency court sessions outside district/circuit, 9-10, 15
         Guam, status, 8, 24
         judgments in criminal cases, 18
         magistrate judge positions, 32
         miscellaneous fees, 12-14
         NLRB contempt actions/judgment executions, 23-24
         places of holding court, 8
         privacy, 8-9, 10, 15-16, 16-17
         removal, 22-23
         rules of practice and procedure, 36-37
         sentencing authority, 5-6, 18-19

District judges (see judges, district)

Diversity jurisdiction, 22-23

E-Government Act of 2002, 8-9, 17

Electronic case filing
       model local rules, 15
       privacy, 8-9, 15-16, 16-17

Electronic public access (EPA)
       court information, 14, 15-16, 16-17, 17
       criminal case files, 15-16
       electronic case filing, 15
       Electronic Public Access Fee Schedule, 14
       fee cap, 14
       fee exemption policy, 14
       privacy, 8-9, 10, 15-16, 16-17
       transcripts, 16-17

Ethics
         financial disclosure reporting requirements, 24-25
         gift regulations, 11-12

Ethics in Government Act, 25

Ethics Reform Act of 1989, 11-12



                                             vi
                                                                        September 23, 2003

Executive branch
      Department of Homeland Security, 39
      Department of Justice, 8, 19, 20
         Attorney General, 19
         Bureau of Prisons, 18, 20
         Federal Bureau of Investigation, 31-32
         United States attorneys= offices, 19
         United States Marshals Service, 39
      General Services Administration, 28
      Internal Revenue Service, 31
      Office of Government Ethics (OGE), 25
      Office of Personnel Management, 31
      pay parity, 30

Executive Committee, 4-9, 10, 11, 19, 23, 24, 28

Federal Bureau of Investigation, 31-32

Federal courts improvement bill, 23-24

Federal Courts Study Committee, 23

Federal defenders (see also Criminal Justice Act, defender services; personnel,
judiciary)
        location of offices, 38
        relocation regulations, 21, 28

Federal Judicial Center, 16, 26

Federal public defender organizations (see defender services)

Federal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Federal-State Jurisdiction, Committee on, 7, 8, 22-24

Federal-state relations
      complex litigation, 24
      education programs, 24


Fees
       bankruptcy court

                                           vii
Judicial Conference of the United States


           appeal, 13
           Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule, 12-14
           cross appeal, 13
           debtor=s lists amendment, 13
           filing a motion to lift stay, 14
           inflationary increases, 12
           reopening a case, 13
           splitting a case, 14
        court of appeals
           appellate docketing fee, 13
           Court of Appeals Miscellaneous Fee Schedule, 12-13
           inflationary increases, 12
           videoconferencing fee, 13
        electronic public access
           Electronic Public Access Fee Schedule, 14
           exemption policy, 14
           fee cap, 14
        miscellaneous, generally, 10, 11, 12-14

Financial Disclosure, Committee on, 24-25

Financial disclosure reports
      filed, 25
      requirements
          employees, 25
          judges, 24-25

Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 37-38

General Services Administration, 28

Gift regulations, 11-12

Guam, District Court
     Article III status, 8, 24

Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, 10, 11-12, 20, 32

Guidelines for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act, 20
Homeland Security Act of 2002, 27



                                           viii
                                                                             September 23, 2003

Information technology (see also electronic public access), 25

Information Technology, Committee on, 25

Intercircuit assignments, 26

Intercircuit Assignments, Committee on, 26

Internal Revenue Service, 31

International Judicial Relations, Committee on, 26

Internet (see electronic public access; information technology)

Judges, Article III (see also judges, chief; judges, circuit; judges, district; judges,
federal)
        intercircuit assignments, 26

Judges, bankruptcy (see also bankruptcy system; judges, chief; judges, federal)
      emergency court sessions outside a district/circuit, 9-10
      recalled
         commuting-type expenses, 10
         official duty stations, 27
      travel, 10, 26-27

Judges, chief
      circuit
          CJA voucher approval, 20-21
          defender relocation, 21
          senior staff attorney target grade, 29
      relocation reimbursement eligibility exceptions, 28

Judges, circuit (see also judges, Article III; judges, chief; judges, federal)
      CJA voucher approval, 20-21

Judges, Court of Federal Claims (see judges, chief; judges, federal)

Judges, district (see also judges, Article III; judges, chief; judges, federal)
      sentencing authority, 5-6, 18-20

Judges, federal (see also judges, Article III; judges, bankruptcy; judges, chief; judges,
circuit; judges, district; judges, magistrate)


                                              ix
Judicial Conference of the United States


        compensation, 27
        financial disclosure reporting requirements, 24-25
        financial disclosure reports filed, 25
        gift regulations, 11-12
        judge-specific data, 19
        sentencing authority, 5-6, 18-20
        sentencing guideline departures data, 19
        Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, 26-27
        travel reimbursement, special lower fares, 26

Judges, magistrate (see also judges, federal; magistrate judges system)
      accelerated funding, 35
      background investigations, 31-32
      changes in positions, 32-34
      diversity in selection process, 31
      merit selection panel
          diversity, 31
          residency waiver, 8
      new positions, criteria, 35
      recall regulations, 31-32
      recalled
          approval of extension requests, 32
          background investigations, 31-32
          commuting-type expenses, 32
          intercircuit service, 32
          official duty station, 27
          travel, 26-27, 32
      retired, practice of law, 35
      salary, part-time magistrate judge, 7
      selection and appointment regulations, 8
      travel, 26-27, 32

Judgeships, Article III
      District Court of Guam, 8, 24

Judgments in criminal cases, 18

Judicial Branch, Committee on the, 26-27

Judicial Conference of the United States
       funding of actions, 40
       mail ballot, 27

                                            x
                                                                       September 23, 2003


Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
       electronic public access fees, 14
       miscellaneous fees, 12
       staffing formula, 29-30

Judicial Resources, Committee on, 17, 21, 27-30, 35

Judiciary Salary Plan (see also personnel, judiciary), 29

Jurisdiction
       asbestos-related personal injury claims, 7
       diversity
          amount in controversy, 22-23
          citizenship of insurance companies, 22
       removal/remand procedures, 22-23

Jury administration
      civil jury trial deferral, 6-7
      juror fee funding, 6-7
      jury service, automatic excuse, 8

Law clerks
      elbow, qualification standards, 28
      overseas, relocation reimbursement, 28
      Social Security appeals, 35

Legislation, pending (108th Congress)
       Child Abduction Prevention Act (H.R. 1104), 5-6
       Class Action Fairness Act of 2003 (S. 274), 8
       executive branch pay caps, 30
       Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2003 (FAIR Act) (S. 1125), 7, 24
       Feeney Amendment to H.R. 1104, 5-6, 19
       involuntary bankruptcy, bad faith filings, 8
       sentencing-related legislation, 5-6, 18-20

Levi, David F., 4-5

Local rules, model electronic case filing, 15
Magistrate judges (see judges, magistrate)

Magistrate judges system (see also judges, magistrate)


                                             xi
Judicial Conference of the United States


        accelerated funding, 35
        changes in positions, 32-34
        merit selection panel, 8, 31
        Social Security appeals, law clerks, 35
        workforce diversity, 31

Magistrate Judges System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 7, 8, 28, 31-35

Magnuson, Paul A., 4-5

Mail ballot of the Judicial Conference, 27

Melloy, Michael J., 4-5

Miscellaneous fee schedules (see fees)

National Commission on the Public Service, 27

National Labor Relations Board (NLRB)
      contempt/execution of judgments, 23-24
      orders, self-enforcing, 23-24

Office of Government Ethics, 25

Office of Personnel Management, 31

PACER, 14

Panel attorneys (see Criminal Justice Act)

Personnel, judiciary (see also federal defenders; law clerks; staffing resources)
       compensation, 16-17, 30
       Court Personnel System, 28
       court reporter compensation, 16-17
       financial disclosure reporting requirements, 25
       financial disclosure reports, 25
       gift regulations, 11-12
Personnel, judiciary (continued)
       Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP), 29
       law clerk qualifications, 28


                                             xii
                                                                         September 23, 2003

       pay parity with executive branch, 30
       relocation regulations, 21, 28
       senior staff attorney target grade, 29
       voluntary separation incentive payment program, 27-28

Places of holding court, 8

Privacy
      bankruptcy records, 10, 15-16
      civil case files, 15-16
      criminal case files, 15-16
      E-Government Act of 2002, 8-9
      redaction of personal data identifiers, 8-9, 15-16, 16-17
      transcripts, electronic public access, 16-17

Probation and pretrial services officers (see personnel, judiciary; probation and pretrial
services system)

Probation and pretrial services system (see also probation and pretrial services
officers)
        presentence investigation reports, 20
        pretrial services supervision monograph, 18
        The Federal Home Confinement Program for Defendants and Offenders,
           Monograph 113, 20
        The Supervision of Federal Defendants, Monograph 111, 18
        The Supervision of Federal Offenders, Monograph 109, 18
        United States Pretrial Services Supervision, Publication 111, 18

Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation
of Children Today Act of 2003 (PROTECT Act), 6, 18, 18-20

PROTECT Act (see Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation
of Children Today Act of 2003)

Public Access to Court Electronic Records (see PACER)




Records (see also electronic public access)
      bankruptcy,
         access, 10


                                           xiii
Judicial Conference of the United States


           bad faith involuntary filing, 8
        criminal cases
           confidentiality, 5-6, 18-20
           privacy/public access, 15-16
           PROTECT Act, 5-6, 18-20
        E-Government Act of 2002, 8-9
        judge-specific data, 19
        privacy, 8-9, 10, 15-16, 16-17
        recordkeeping/reporting requirements, 5-6, 18, 18-20
        redaction of personal identifying information, 8-9, 15-16, 16-17
        transcripts, 16-17

Regulations of the Director Implementing the Retirement and Survivors=
Annuities for Bankruptcy Judges and Magistrates Act, 35

Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States Establishing
Standards and Procedures for the Recall of United States Magistrate
Judges, 31-32

Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States Governing
the Extended Service Recall of Retired United States Magistrate
Judges, 31-32

Relocation regulations
      court employees, 28
      federal defenders, 21, 28

Removal and remand procedures, 22-23

Resolutions
       Baird, Lourdes G., 4-5
       Cacheris, James C., 4-5
       Levi, David F., 4-5
       Magnuson, Paul A., 4-5
       Melloy, Michael J., 4-5
       memorial, 39
       Nelson, Edwin L., 39
       Schlesinger, Harvey E., 4-5
Resolutions (continued)
       Scirica, Anthony J., 4-5
       Wilkins, William W., 4-5


                                           xiv
                                                                      September 23, 2003

Retirement
      magistrate judges, practice of law, 35

Rules of practice and procedure
       appellate rules, 37
       bankruptcy rules, 36, 37
       civil rules, 23, 37
       criminal rules, 36, 37
       evidence rules, 36-37
       local rules, model, 15

Rules of Practice and Procedure, Committee on, 15, 36-37

Salaries (see compensation)

Schlesinger, Harvey E., 4-5

Scirica, Anthony J., 4-5

Security
       background investigations, recalled magistrate judges, 31-32
       financial reporting requirements, 24-25

Security and Facilities, Committee on, 24, 37-39

Sentencing guidelines
      amendments, 5-6, 18, 18-20
      downward departures, 5-6, 18, 18-20

Space and facilities
      courthouse construction, 37-38
      federal defenders= offices, location, 38
      Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, 37-38
      judicial space emergencies, 37
      tenant alterations projects, 38, 39
      U. S. Courts Design Guide, 38


Staff attorneys
        senior, target grade, 29

Staffing formulae


                                          xv
Judicial Conference of the United States


        allotment methodologies, 11
        Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, 29-30
        productivity adjustment, 30

Staffing resources (see also personnel, judiciary)
       bankruptcy administrator staff, 29
       court interpreter positions, 29
       staffing formula, Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, 29-30
       Type II deputy positions, 30
       voluntary separation incentive payment program, 27-28
       workforce-reshaping, 27-28

Supporting personnel (see personnel, judiciary)

Technology (see information technology)

Temporary Emergency Fund, 30, 39

Tenant alterations projects, 38, 39

The Federal Home Confinement Program for Defendants
and Offenders, Monograph 113, 20

The Supervision of Federal Defendants, Monograph 111, 18

The Supervision of Federal Offenders, Monograph 109, 18

Transcripts
      electronic public access, 16-17

Travel, judges=
       commuting-type expenses, recalled bankruptcy judges, 10
       commuting-type expenses, recalled magistrate judges, 32
       official duty station, recalled bankruptcy/magistrate judges, 27
       reimbursement, special lower fares, 26

Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, 10, 26-27, 32
United States attorneys= offices, 19

United States Marshals Service, 39



                                            xvi
                                                                       September 23, 2003

United States Pretrial Services Supervision, Publication 111 (see The Supervision
of Federal Defendants, Monograph 111)

United States Sentencing Commission, 5-6, 18, 18-20

U. S. Courts Design Guide, 38

Wilkins, William W., 4-5




                                         xvii
