REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


September 21, 2004


                      The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
              D.C., on September 21, 2004, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
              United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
              the following members of the Conference were present:

                     First Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Michael Boudin
                                 Chief Judge Hector M. Laffitte,
                                        District of Puerto Rico

                     Second Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge John M. Walker, Jr.
                                 Chief Judge Frederick J. Scullin, Jr.,
                                        Northern District of New York

                     Third Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Anthony J. Scirica
                                 Chief Judge Thomas I. Vanaskie,
                                        Middle District of Pennsylvania

                     Fourth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge William W. Wilkins
                                 Judge David C. Norton,
                                        District of South Carolina

                     Fifth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King
                                 Judge Martin L. C. Feldman,
                                        Eastern District of Louisiana
Judicial Conference of the United States

                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Danny J. Boggs
                                           Chief Judge Lawrence P. Zatkoff,
                                                  Eastern District of Michigan

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel M. Flaum
                                           Judge J. P. Stadtmueller,
                                                  Eastern District of Wisconsin

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge James B. Loken
                                           Chief Judge James M. Rosenbaum,
                                                  District of Minnesota

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary M. Schroeder
                                           Chief Judge David Alan Ezra,
                                                  District of Hawaii

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Deanell R. Tacha
                                           Judge David L. Russell,
                                                  Western District of Oklahoma

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge J. L. Edmondson
                                           Judge J. Owen Forrester,
                                                  Northern District of Georgia

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Douglas H. Ginsburg
                                           Chief Judge Thomas F. Hogan,
                                                  District of Columbia



                                                               2
                                                                 September 21, 2004

           Federal Circuit:

                      Chief Judge Haldane Robert Mayer

           Court of International Trade:

                      Chief Judge Jane A. Restani

           The following Judicial Conference committee chairs or designees
    attended the Conference session: Circuit Judges Marjorie O. Rendell and Jane
    R. Roth and District Judges W. Royal Furgeson, Jr., Nina Gershon, John G.
    Heyburn II, Robert B. Kugler, Sim Lake, David F. Levi, John W. Lungstrum,
    James Robertson, Lee H. Rosenthal, Patti B. Saris, and Frederick P. Stamp, Jr.
    Bankruptcy Judge A. Thomas Small and Magistrate Judge John M. Roper, Sr.
    were also in attendance as observers. James A. Higgins of the Sixth Circuit
    represented the circuit executives.

            Leonidas Ralph Mecham, Director of the Administrative Office of the
    United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did
    Clarence A. Lee, Jr., Associate Director for Management and Operations;
    William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General Counsel; Karen K.
    Siegel, Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat;
    Michael W. Blommer, Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; David Sellers,
    Assistant Director, Public Affairs; and Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant
    Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat. Judge Barbara Jacobs
    Rothstein and Russell Wheeler, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal
    Judicial Center, also attended the session of the Conference, as did Sally
    Rider, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice, and the 2004-2005
    Judicial Fellows.

            Senators Orrin G. Hatch, Patrick J. Leahy, Jeff Sessions and Ted
    Stevens and Representative John Conyers, Jr. spoke on matters pending in
    Congress of interest to the Judicial Conference. Attorney General John
    Ashcroft addressed the Conference on matters of mutual interest to the
    judiciary and the Department of Justice.


REPORTS
           Mr. Mecham reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
   courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge



                                           3
Judicial Conference of the United States

                     Rothstein spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC)
                     programs, and Judge Ricardo H. Hinojosa, Chair of the United States
                     Sentencing Commission, reported on Sentencing Commission activities. Judge
                     Heyburn, Chair of the Committee on the Budget, briefed the members on
                     judiciary appropriations, and Judge Carolyn Dineen King, Chair of the
                     Executive Committee, reported on that Committee’s initiative to contain costs
                     in the judiciary.


             EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
                     RESOLUTIONS

                            The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
                     Committee to adopt the following resolution in recognition of the substantial
                     contributions made by Judicial Conference committee chairs who will
                     complete their terms of service in 2004:

                                     The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes
                              with appreciation, respect, and admiration the following judicial
                              officers:

                                           HONORABLE WILLIAM L. OSTEEN, SR.
                                               Committee on Codes of Conduct

                                       HONORABLE FREDERICK P. STAMP, JR.
                                         Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction

                                              HONORABLE DENNIS G. JACOBS
                                                Committee on Judicial Resources

                                             HONORABLE WILLIAM J. BAUER
                                           Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct
                                                      and Disability Orders

                                             HONORABLE A. THOMAS SMALL
                                            Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules

                                             HONORABLE EDWARD E. CARNES
                                              Advisory Committee on Criminal Rules

                                   Appointed as committee chairs by Chief Justice
                              William H. Rehnquist, these outstanding jurists have played a

                                                               4
                                                               September 21, 2004

       vital role in the administration of the federal court system.
       These judges served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial
       Conference committees while, at the same time, continuing to
       perform their duties as judges in their own courts. They have
       set a standard of skilled leadership and earned our deep respect
       and sincere gratitude for their innumerable contributions. We
       acknowledge with appreciation their commitment and dedicated
       service to the Judicial Conference and to the entire federal
       judiciary.


BUDGET MATTERS

        Fiscal Year 2004 Financial Plans. In March 2004, the Chief Justice
charged the Executive Committee with developing an integrated strategy for
controlling costs in fiscal year (FY) 2005 and beyond (JCUS-MAR 04, p. 6).
As part of this effort, the Committee asked the program committees to submit
specific cost-containment suggestions both for the short and long terms. In
early June 2004, the Executive Committee considered “quick-hitting”
suggestions from the program committees that could be implemented
immediately to help alleviate the FY 2005 budget situation. Based on an
aggressive review of fiscal year 2004 requirements, the program committees
identified $29.2 million that could be carried forward into the FY 2005 Salaries
and Expenses account, and the Administrative Office identified $23.6 from
centrally managed accounts that could similarly be carried forward. The
Defender Services, Court Security, and Fees of Jurors accounts were also
reviewed and revisions proposed. The Executive Committee endorsed the
program-committee and AO-recommended adjustments to the fiscal year 2004
financial plans. The Committee determined that other quick-hitting items
identified by program committee chairs would be considered by the Judicial
Conference in September 2004 together with longer-term suggestions as part of
one package.

        Fiscal Year 2005 Financial Plans. Advised of the strong possibility that
the judiciary would be operating under a continuing resolution for at least some
months into FY 2005, which would likely hold judiciary appropriations to a
“hard freeze” at fiscal year 2004 levels, the Executive Committee, in late July
2004, considered and approved preliminary FY 2005 financial plans for the
four major judiciary accounts (Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services,
Court Security, and Fees of Jurors and Commissioners) at a hard-freeze level.
These plans incorporated a number of recommendations from Judicial
Conference program committees for reducing costs. For the Salaries and
Expenses account, the Executive Committee also approved an alternate


                                       5
Judicial Conference of the United States

                     preliminary financial plan based on a four percent funding increase over the
                     fiscal year 2004 funded level. The Committee agreed that the hard-freeze plan
                     and the four percent plan should be used to form the high and low guideposts
                     within which the Administrative Office would develop shadow allotments for
                     the courts. For the Defender Services, Court Security, and Fees of Jurors and
                     Commissioners accounts, the Executive Committee identified items that could
                     be funded in the event of increases above the hard-freeze levels.

                             Cost Containment for Fiscal Year 2005 and Beyond. In response to the
                     Executive Committee’s request for assistance in the development of an
                     integrated strategy for controlling costs for fiscal year 2005 and beyond, ten
                     Judicial Conference program committees undertook a comprehensive review of
                     the judiciary policies under their purviews to identify ways to contain costs in
                     their respective program areas. Using the program committees’ ideas (as well
                     as those of the Committee on the Budget), the Executive Committee developed
                     a cost-containment strategy for the judiciary, which was incorporated into a
                     report entitled, “Cost-Containment Strategy for the Federal Judiciary: 2005 and
                     Beyond.”

                            The cost-containment strategy contains the following six broad
                     avenues in which specific initiatives would be pursued and implemented:

                     •        Space and Facilities Cost Control
                              Objective: Impose tighter restraints on future space and facilities costs.

                     •        Workforce Efficiency
                              Objective: Trim future staffing needs through re-engineering work
                              processes and reorganizing functions to increase efficiency, and by
                              employing different staffing techniques.

                     •        Compensation Review
                              Objective: Explore fair and reasonable opportunities to limit future
                              compensation costs.

                     •        Effective Use of Technology
                              Objective: Invest wisely in technologies to enhance productivity and
                              service, while controlling operating costs by revamping the service-
                              delivery model for national information-technology systems.

                     •        Defender Services, Court Security, Law Enforcement, and Other
                              Program Changes
                              Objective: Study and implement cost-effective modifications to
                              programs.


                                                              6
                                                                September 21, 2004


•       Fee Adjustments
        Objective: Ensure that fees are examined regularly and adjusted as
        necessary to reflect economic changes.

       The overall cost-containment strategy described in the report forms the
roadmap for discrete action and coordinated efforts related to achieving cost-
containment objectives. On recommendation of the Executive Committee, the
Conference approved the report.1 The Executive Committee will ensure that
the components of the strategy that remain to be developed are both developed
and implemented and will continue to monitor, coordinate, and promote
progress on all cost-containment efforts.


MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

        The Executive Committee—

•       Approved a request of the Committees on Judicial Resources and Court
        Administration and Case Management to extend the duration of a pilot
        project on electronic access to transcripts (see JCUS-MAR 04, pp. 10-
        11) and to defer until September 2005 the date by which those
        committees would report back to the Conference on the pilot;

•       Approved a Judicial Resources Committee recommendation to extend
        the deadline for participation in the voluntary separation incentive
        (“buyout”) program previously approved by the Conference (JCUS-
        SEP 03, pp. 27-28) through January 31, 2005, with the understanding
        that the program would be funded with decentralized funds;



1
 The report includes several items that were presented separately to the Judicial
Conference at this session by the specific committees recommending their
approval. Those items appear in these proceedings under their respective
committee headings. (See infra, “Fees,” p. 11-12; “Sharing Administrative
Services,” pp. 12-13; “Lawbooks,” p. 13; “Program Changes,” pp. 14-15;
“Federal Defender Organization Space Requests,” pp. 15-16; “Travel
Regulations for United States Justices and Judges,” pp. 19-20); “Voluntary
Separation Incentive Payment Program,” pp. 21-22; “Promotion Policies,” pp.
22-23; “Magistrate Judge Position Vacancies,” p. 26; “Magistrate Judge Recall
Regulations,” pp. 26-27; “Two-Year Moratorium on Courthouse Construction
Projects,” pp. 34-35; “Limits on Space Growth,” pp. 35-36; and “Tenant
Alterations Criteria,” p. 36.)

                                        7
Judicial Conference of the United States

                     •         Agreed, on recommendation of the Judicial Resources Committee, to
                               expand the judiciary’s telecommuting policy to include employees in
                               federal public defender organizations, and endorsed the expeditious
                               implementation of telework within the judiciary;

                     •         At the suggestion of the Judicial Branch Committee, and in light of the
                               budget situation, agreed to roll back the allowable alternative
                               subsistence amount for judges’ travel reimbursement to the 2003 level;
                               and

                     •         Approved transmittal to Congress of a report on issues related to juror
                               utilization in the federal district courts that was prepared in response to
                               a congressional directive and was due in Congress by July 21, 2004.


             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
                         COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                  The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it discussed
                         extensively the judiciary’s unprecedented funding crisis in fiscal year 2005,
                         the potential for long-term continuing budget shortfalls, and the steps being
                         taken by the Administrative Office to support the Executive Committee’s
                         cost-containment initiative. The Committee also reviewed spending
                         restrictions implemented at the Administrative Office in response to the
                         constrained FY 2004 budget and in anticipation of a possible hard freeze in
                         fiscal year 2005. The Committee noted the importance of various stewardship
                         initiatives, including the recently issued Internal Controls Handbook for the
                         Federal Courts, which is intended to assist court managers in reviewing and
                         developing internal control procedures consistent with applicable policies and
                         regulations. The Administrative Office was asked to report back in one year
                         on whether these initiatives have resulted in better administrative management
                         in the courts as evidenced by trends in audit findings.


             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
             OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                     BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                           In accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(3), the Judicial Conference
                     conducts a comprehensive review of all judicial districts every other year to


                                                                8
                                                                 September 21, 2004

assess the continuing need for authorized bankruptcy judgeships. By
December 31 of each even-numbered year, the Conference reports its
recommendations to Congress for the elimination of any authorized bankruptcy
judgeship position that can be eliminated when a vacancy exists by reason of
resignation, retirement, removal or death. On recommendation of the
Bankruptcy Committee, which relied on the results of the 2004 continuing
need survey, the Judicial Conference agreed to take the following actions:

a.     Recommend to Congress that no bankruptcy judgeship be statutorily
       eliminated; and

b.     Advise the Eighth and Ninth Circuit Judicial Councils to consider not
       filling vacancies in the Districts of South Dakota and Alaska,
       respectively, that currently exist or may occur by reason of resignation,
       retirement, removal, or death, until there is a demonstrated need to do
       so.


COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

         The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
reported that it approved fiscal year 2006 funding recommendations for the
areas within its oversight, and, along with other Conference committees,
explored various cost-containment ideas as part of the Executive Committee’s
initiative to develop an integrated strategy for controlling judiciary costs in FY
2005 and beyond. It also agreed to advise the Judicial Branch Committee that
it endorsed the extension to bankruptcy judges as well as magistrate judges of
the “FEGLI fix” provided to Article III judges that effectively capped personal
life insurance costs after age 65 (JCUS-SEP 00, pp. 54-55) and the Judicial
Resources Committee that if the staffing formula for bankruptcy clerks’ offices
were to be adopted, the Committee should consider recommending a phase-in
period. In addition the Bankruptcy Committee endorsed a resolution
encouraging bankruptcy courts to support and participate in consumer
education programs; agreed that certain additional data elements should be
included in the Administrative Office’s statistical reporting system; and
considered and received reports on a wide array of topics.




                                     9
Judicial Conference of the United States

             COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
                      FISCAL YEAR 2006 BUDGET REQUEST

                              In light of an extremely austere congressional budget environment, the
                      Budget Committee recommended a fiscal year 2006 budget request lower than
                      the funding levels proposed by the program committees. The request
                      incorporates over $106 million in savings realized from substantial cost-
                      containment efforts undertaken by the program committees, and anticipates
                      $19 million in additional revenues from new and increased fees recommended
                      by the Court Administration and Case Management Committee and endorsed
                      by the Conference at this session (see infra, “Fees,” pp. 11-12). The Judicial
                      Conference approved the budget request subject to amendments necessary as
                      a result of new legislation, actions of the Judicial Conference, or other reasons
                      the Executive Committee considers necessary and appropriate.


                      CONTINUING RESOLUTION EXEMPTION

                               Recognizing the judiciary’s need for certainty and sufficient and
                      timely funding to avoid compromising its core mission of administering
                      justice, the Judicial Conference adopted a resolution, recommended by the
                      Budget Committee, strongly urging Congress and the President to exempt the
                      judicial branch from any fiscal year 2005 continuing resolution and to
                      provide, instead, full-year funding at least at the current services level
                      contained in the House-passed version of the judiciary’s 2005 appropriations
                      bill (H.R. 4754, 108th Congress). So that the resolution could be transmitted
                      to Congress in a timely manner, the Conference approved it by mail ballot
                      concluded on August 19, 2004.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Budget reported that in addition to its work on
                      the fiscal year 2006 budget request, it discussed and supported the cost-
                      containment efforts of the Executive Committee and the program committees.
                      The Committee also endorsed proposed new and increased judiciary fees to be
                      considered by the Conference at this session (see infra, “Fees,” pp. 11-12) and
                      incorporated several cost-containment initiatives into the fiscal year 2006
                      budget request (see supra, “Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Request,” p. 10).




                                                         10
                                                                      September 21, 2004

COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
       to the Judicial Conference in March 2004, it had received 35 new written
       inquiries and issued 29 written advisory responses. During this period, the
       average response time for these requests was 16 days. The Chair received and
       responded to 73 informal inquiries. In addition, individual committee
       members responded to 135 informal inquiries from their colleagues.


COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
AND CASE MANAGEMENT

       FEES2

                District Court Filing Fee. The district court filing fee, set forth in
       28 U.S.C. § 1914(a), is currently set at $150 and has not been adjusted for
       inflation or otherwise raised since 1997. On recommendation of the
       Committee on Court Administration and Case Management, the Judicial
       Conference agreed to seek an amendment to 28 U.S.C. § 1914(a) to increase
       the filing fee from $150 to $250 and an accompanying amendment to
       28 U.S.C. § 1931(a) to increase from $90 to $190, the amount of the filing fee
       that the judiciary is authorized to retain in the judiciary’s fee account.
       Contingent upon enactment of such legislation, in order to ensure that the fee
       increase has no impact on the fee for filing a motion to lift the automatic stay
       imposed under Item 20 of the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule,
       the Conference also adopted a recommendation of the Committee to amend
       Item 20 to delete the reference to the amount required for filing a civil action
       and insert language establishing a $150 fee for a motion to lift the automatic
       stay.3




   2
    The fee adjustments described in this section were included in the judiciary’s
   comprehensive cost-containment strategy adopted by the Conference at this
   session (see supra, “Budget Matters,” pp. 5-7).
   3
    The amendments were subsequently incorporated in the Consolidated
   Appropriations Act of 2005, Public Law No. 108-447, enacted on December 8,
   2004. The increased fee becomes effective 60 days after the date of enactment.

                                              11
Judicial Conference of the United States

                                Appellate Attorney Admission Fee. The Conference adopted a
                        recommendation of the Committee to establish an appellate attorney
                        admission fee of $150 to be incorporated into the Court of Appeals
                        Miscellaneous Fee Schedule. This fee is in addition to any attorney admission
                        fee charged and retained locally pursuant to Federal Rule of Appellate
                        Procedure 46(a)(3). The proceeds from the new fee will be deposited into the
                        judiciary’s fee account.

                                Central Violations Bureau (CVB) Processing Fee. The Central
                        Violations Bureau processes the payments of approximately 400,000 petty
                        offense citations every year that are issued by various government agencies
                        for violations on federal property. No fee has been charged for the
                        considerable work the CVB does in processing these cases. On
                        recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek
                        legislation establishing a processing fee of $25 for cases processed through
                        the CVB and allowing the proceeds to be retained by the judiciary.4

                                Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER) Internet Fee.
                        Congress has specified that electronic public access (EPA) fees be used to
                        enhance electronic public access, which is currently available through the
                        PACER program. More recently, in the congressional conference report
                        accompanying the judiciary’s FY 2004 appropriations act, Congress expanded
                        the permitted uses of EPA funds to include case management/electronic case
                        files (CM/ECF) system operational costs. In order to provide sufficient
                        revenue to fully fund currently identified case management/electronic case
                        files system costs, the Conference adopted a recommendation of the
                        Committee to amend Item 1 of the Electronic Public Access Fee Schedule to
                        increase the fee for public users obtaining information through a federal
                        judiciary Internet site from seven to eight cents per page.


                        SHARING ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES

                               An independent study is currently being conducted on ways to deliver
                        administrative services to the courts in a more efficient and cost-effective
                        manner. In order to help contain costs in the short-term while the study is
                        being completed, the Committee on Court Administration and Case
                        Management recommended that the Judicial Conference strongly urge all



                    4
                     The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2005 also provided the Judicial
                    Conference with the authority to prescribe and retain a fee for the processing of
                    violations through the CVB.

                                                              12
                                                                  September 21, 2004

district and bankruptcy courts to work together to examine and assess the
financial benefits of sharing support units for information technology,
procurement, personnel, budget and other general administrative functions.
To ensure that this exercise is initiated by the courts, it further recommended
that the Conference request that the chief judges of the district and bankruptcy
courts, as well as the relevant court unit executives, meet and discuss sharing
of services in the areas listed above, and that each district file a report with the
Executive Committee, with copies to its chief circuit judge and to the chair of
the Court Administration and Case Management Committee, outlining the
efforts that the district has undertaken to examine sharing administrative
services. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations, which
are included in the judiciary’s comprehensive cost-containment strategy
adopted at this session (see supra, “Budget Matters,” pp. 5-7).


LAWBOOKS

        The Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, Volume 1, Chapter 5,
Part H, “Lawbooks Available to Judges,” provides lists of lawbooks that
newly appointed judges may request for a chambers collection. These lists had
not been updated in many years. On recommendation of the Committee on
Court Administration and Case Management, the Conference approved
revisions to these lists that would reduce costs and avoid duplication. This
item is contained in the judiciary’s comprehensive cost-containment strategy
adopted at this session (see supra, “Budget Matters,” pp. 5-7).


COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

        The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
reported that it considered and endorsed proposed revisions to the Model
Grand Jury Charge approved by the Judicial Conference in 1986 and provided
these revisions to the Criminal Law and Defender Services Committees for
their review. Members also discussed the work of the Committee’s
subcommittee on the implementation of the policy on electronic access to
official transcripts, which is exploring options to address loss of income to
court reporters attributable to the policy. The Committee also discussed its
ongoing initiative to increase access to federal court documents for persons
with limited English proficiency, including the establishment of a J-Net
repository of translated information and documents; requested the Rules
Committee to consider amendments to the civil and bankruptcy rules that
would permit courts to require mandatory electronic case filing; and adopted
a new model local rule for electronic filing regarding the use of hyperlinks in


                                        13
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      CM/ECF documents, as well as amendments to two existing rules necessitated
                      by technical improvements to the CM/ECF software.


             COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                      CONGRESSIONAL ADVISORY GROUP ON SENTENCING

                              The judiciary was asked by the Chairman of the House Appropriations
                      Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, State, the Judiciary, and Related
                      Agencies to provide input on qualifications of candidates for a temporary
                      advisory group on sentencing issues and mandatory minimum penalties. On
                      recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Conference agreed
                      to suggest that current and former federal and state prosecutors, members of
                      the defense bar, scholars, probation officers, state sentencing guideline
                      authorities, federal and state judges, and other practitioners with significant
                      current experience and expertise in relevant areas of the law and sentencing,
                      along with a reporter, be considered as candidates for the group.


                      PRETRIAL SERVICES SUPERVISION MONOGRAPH

                             On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial
                      Conference approved the distribution of revisions to the Supervision of
                      Federal Defendants, Monograph 111. The revisions clarify certain policies in
                      response to questions raised by pretrial services officers, correct errors, and
                      make other technical changes.


                      PROGRAM CHANGES

                              Recognizing the seriousness of the judiciary’s financial situation, the
                      Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference endorse revisions to
                      certain practices with respect to pretrial services investigations, pretrial
                      services supervision, presentence investigation reports, and post-conviction
                      supervision cases to reduce specific categories of work currently being
                      performed but not absolutely critical to public safety and the mission of
                      probation and pretrial services. The intent was to allow limited resources to
                      be spent on more critical, mission-driven functions so that the probation and
                      pretrial services system can continue to provide high-quality pretrial services
                      and presentence investigation reports to the courts in appropriate cases and to


                                                            14
                                                                   September 21, 2004

    supervise those defendants and offenders who raise serious public safety
    concerns. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations, which
    were also included in the comprehensive cost-containment strategy for the
    judiciary adopted by the Judicial Conference at this session (see supra,
    “Budget Matters,” pp. 5-7). The Committee will present to the Conference for
    approval at a later date, proposed revisions to the various monographs to
    implement the cost-containment program changes.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it recommended to the
    Committee on Judicial Resources that the proposed staffing formulae for
    probation and pretrial services offices be adopted by the Judicial Conference.
    The Committee also endorsed the Judicial Resources Committee’s ongoing
    efforts to review the methodology currently used in the staffing formulae to
    identify, assess, and measure cost-effective procedures that may lead to higher
    levels of efficiency and quality in the courts. In addition, the Committee was
    briefed on a joint AO/FJC study on substance abuse testing and treatment
    services and on an independent strategic assessment of the probation and
    pretrial services system. Noting that both studies reported a lack of adequate
    data to assess the programs, the Committee endorsed a strategic approach that
    (a) the probation and pretrial services system be organized, staffed, and
    funded in ways to promote mission-critical outcomes; and (b) the capacity be
    developed to empirically measure the results.


COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
    FEDERAL DEFENDER ORGANIZATION
    SPACE REQUESTS

            In March 2004, in order to control rental costs, the Judicial Conference
    imposed a one-year moratorium on all space requests of less than $2.29
    million in construction costs funded from the Salaries and Expenses account,
    with certain specified exceptions (JCUS-MAR 04, p. 28). The Executive
    Committee subsequently asked the Defender Services Committee to consider
    a similar moratorium for federal defender organizations. At this session, on
    recommendation of the Committee on Defender Services, the Judicial
    Conference imposed a moratorium on all federal defender organization space
    requests of less than $2.29 million ($2.36 million in FY 2005) in construction


                                          15
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      costs for one year, except requests for lease renewals, official parking, and
                      space necessary for recovery from natural disasters or terrorist attacks. The
                      Conference authorized the Director of the Administrative Office to make
                      limited exceptions in consultation with the Defender Services Committee
                      chair and the Committee member who is the liaison to the federal defender’s
                      circuit. For federal public defender organizations, the circuit judicial council
                      will also be consulted. This item is included in the federal judiciary’s
                      comprehensive cost-containment strategy that was also approved by the
                      Conference at this session (see supra, “Budget Matters,” pp. 5-7).


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Defender Services reported that it reviewed and
                      prioritized numerous cost-containment initiatives identified by its budget
                      subcommittee, as well as those suggested by the Executive Committee. The
                      Committee supported seeking an expert services contract with the Vera
                      Institute of Justice to conduct a study of Criminal Justice Act plans and
                      practices at the appeals court level. Under its delegated authority from the
                      Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR 89, pp. 16-17), the Committee approved FY
                      2005 federal defender organization budgets and grants totaling $395,392,900,
                      as well as supplemental FY 2004 funding for four organizations totaling
                      $1,877,000. The Committee approved FY 2005 plans for federal defender and
                      panel attorney training, but, in view of the austere budget climate, decided to
                      reduce training-related expenditures by ten percent as a temporary measure.


             COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
                      CHILD CUSTODY LEGISLATION

                              Three bills pending in the 108th Congress (S. 2202, H.R. 3941, and
                      H.R. 4347) would, among other things, add a provision to the Parental
                      Kidnapping Prevention Act, 28 U.S.C. § 1738A, to provide a cause of action
                      in the U.S. district courts to resolve conflicting child custody orders between
                      courts of different states. On two prior occasions, the Judicial Conference has
                      opposed similar legislation on the grounds that it would constitute “an
                      unnecessary expansion of federal jurisdiction into areas in which federal
                      courts have no expertise and could result in unnecessary federal-state
                      conflicts” (JCUS-SEP 89, p. 64; JCUS-MAR 96, pp. 20-21). In view of the
                      length of time since the Conference last addressed this issue and the renewed


                                                             16
                                                                    September 21, 2004

    congressional interest in creating federal jurisdiction in this area, the
    Committee recommended that the Conference reaffirm its opposition to the
    creation of a federal cause of action for the intended purpose of resolving
    conflicting child custody orders between two or more states. The Conference
    adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

             The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it is
    assessing the Social Security Administration’s proposed approach to revise
    the disability claims process and was briefed on it by Jo Anne B. Barnhart,
    Commissioner of Social Security, and Martin H. Gerry, Deputy Commissioner
    of the Office of Disability and Income Security Programs. The Committee
    also reviewed the “Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2004,”
    S. 2290 (108th Congress), but concluded that regarding those provisions
    within its jurisdiction, no action was necessary at this time. In addition,
    following discussion, the Committee agreed not to pursue a proposal that had
    been developed within its jurisdictional improvements project to authorize
    district courts, in their discretion, to dismiss diversity jurisdiction cases when
    their value drops below the threshold amount of $75,000 during the course of
    proceedings. Instead, it determined to pursue a proposal to bring uniformity
    to the treatment of stipulations as to the amount in controversy when removal
    is sought.


COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of July 10,
    2004, the Committee had received 3,598 financial disclosure reports and
    certifications for the calendar year 2003, including 1,224 reports and
    certifications from Supreme Court justices, Article III judges, and judicial
    officers of special courts; 328 from bankruptcy judges; 498 from magistrate
    judges; and 1,548 from judicial employees. The Committee also reported that
    during the last six months, it has focused on further refining the procedures
    for processing requests for copies of financial disclosure reports required to be
    released to the public under section 105 of the Ethics in Government Act of
    1978, as amended. The goal is to identify ways of making the release and



                                           17
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      redaction process more efficient while minimizing the security risks for the
                      judiciary’s filers.


              COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Information Technology reported that it discussed a
                      number of cost-containment measures and endorsed a vigorous program to
                      identify and implement more cost-effective service delivery models for
                      national information technology products. The Committee reaffirmed its
                      support of the ongoing study of administrative services and encouraged courts
                      to look aggressively at opportunities to share information technology
                      resources where feasible. The Committee also considered various training
                      opportunities for judges so that they could take more effective advantage of
                      technology in their day-to-day work. In addition, the Committee examined
                      security measures associated with the judiciary’s data communication
                      network.


            COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that it reviewed
                      the guidelines and operating procedures for intercircuit assignments of Article
                      III judges. It recommended, and the Chief Justice approved, a change to the
                      guideline related to the “lender/borrow rule” to give more flexibility to courts
                      requesting intercircuit assignments, and it proposed a new guideline related to
                      long-term assignments. As part of its cost-containment efforts, the Committee
                      recommended that the AO collect more complete data on intercircuit
                      assignments in order to be able to evaluate the costs and benefits of the
                      program and asked the Committee on Judicial Resources to consider
                      collecting data on intracircuit assignments in order to ensure that data are
                      collected on all visiting judge assignments. The Committee also reported that
                      during the period from January 1, 2004, to June 30, 2004, a total of 56
                      intercircuit assignments, undertaken by 44 Article III judges, were processed
                      and recommended by the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments and
                      approved by the Chief Justice.



                                                            18
                                                                   September 21, 2004

COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
    involvement in rule-of-law and judicial reform activities throughout the
    world, highlighting those in Croatia, the Dominican Republic, Jordan, and the
    Russian Federation. The Committee is working with the American Bar
    Association on a U.S. Department of State-funded project on judicial
    integrity, targeting Albania, Indonesia, and Kenya. The Committee also
    reported on its ongoing assistance to the National Center for State Courts and
    the Supreme Court of Korea in arranging judicial observations in federal
    courts for Korean judges attending U.S. law schools as visiting scholars.


COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
    TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES
    JUSTICES AND JUDGES

            Death While in Travel Status. Section 5742 of title 5, United States
    Code, authorizes the federal government to pay for the preparation and
    transportation of the remains of federal employees who die while in business
    travel status (including judges), as well as other expenses associated with the
    employee’s death. The Administrator of General Services has promulgated
    regulations for the executive branch that specify those expenses that may be
    paid or reimbursed (41 C.F.R. chapter 303). On recommendation of the
    Committee on the Judicial Branch, the Judicial Conference approved an
    amendment to the Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges to
    incorporate by reference 41 C.F.R. chapter 303 and to prescribe a procedure
    for processing claims related to the death of a judge while in travel status.

            Authorized Judicial Meetings. Judges who travel to “authorized
    judicial meetings” need no prior authorization in order to receive
    reimbursement (section B.1.b. of the Travel Regulations for United States
    Justices and Judges). On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
    approved an amendment to section B.1.b. to provide expressly that meetings
    of bankruptcy appellate panels and bankruptcy courts and their committees
    are included within the definition of “authorized judicial meetings.”




                                          19
Judicial Conference of the United States

                              Automobile Rentals. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                      Judicial Conference approved an amendment to section D.2.c.(1) of the
                      judges’ travel regulations to list expressly the factors that judges should
                      consider in renting cars. Also on recommendation of the Committee, the
                      Conference amended section D.2.c.(2) of the travel regulations to clarify that
                      the cost of collision damage waiver or insurance is included in the cost of a
                      government contract vehicle rental and is therefore not separately
                      reimbursable. This proposal is included in the cost-containment strategy
                      approved by the Conference at this session (see supra, “Budget Matters,”
                      pp. 5-7).

                               First-Class Accommodations. Section D.2.a.(1) of the judges’ travel
                      regulations encouraged judges who travel by common carrier to use less than
                      first-class accommodations, except for reasons of security, health, physical
                      disability, unavailability of less than first-class accommodations, or any other
                      reason deemed necessary for the expeditious conduct of official business. In
                      view of the current constrained fiscal environment, the Conference adopted a
                      recommendation of the Committee to amend section D.2.a.(1) to eliminate the
                      catch-all phrase “or any other reason deemed necessary for the expeditious
                      conduct of official business.” This item is contained in the cost-containment
                      strategy adopted by the Conference at this session (see supra, “Budget
                      Matters,” pp. 5-7).


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it continues to
                      consider ways to maintain and enhance the independence and dignity of the
                      federal judicial office. The Committee devoted a considerable portion of its
                      meeting to considering steps that may be taken to secure a more equitable
                      level of judicial compensation. Still, the Committee is deeply aware of the
                      challenges confronting the judiciary at this time. One of these is adequate
                      funding, which has the strong potential to eclipse other legislative priorities.


             COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                      STAFFING FORMULAE

                            At the request of the Committee on Judicial Resources, the
                      Administrative Office reviewed and proposed revisions to the staffing


                                                             20
                                                              September 21, 2004

formulae for the United States district and bankruptcy clerks’ offices and for
probation and pretrial services offices. Nationwide, these proposed new
staffing formulae reflect all the work performed in these court support offices
in the aggregate; however, due to varying managerial styles, operating
environments and priorities, they may not reflect work performed in each
office individually. Decentralized budgeting allows local managers to assign,
reassign, and prioritize work requirements as necessary. On recommendation
of the Committee on Judicial Resources, in order to provide the staffing
needed to perform the federal judicial support requirements and functions of
the district and bankruptcy clerks’ offices and the probation and pretrial
services offices, the Judicial Conference approved the proposed staffing
formulae for these offices for implementation in fiscal year 2005, with the
understanding that the Administrative Office will continue to study certain
issues raised by its District Clerks Advisory Group and other issues as needed.


RELOCATION REGULATIONS

        In September 2003, the Judicial Conference adopted new relocation
regulations for court and federal public defender organization employees,
which eliminated reimbursement to law clerks relocating outside the
conterminous United States for transportation of their vehicles (JCUS-SEP 03,
p. 28). Concerns were subsequently raised by judges in affected districts
about their ability to recruit competitive, highly qualified candidates, due to
the additional financial costs these individuals would now have to incur.
Among other things, the judges noted the lack of adequate transportation
services in their districts, the difficulty and expense of buying or renting a
vehicle, and the limited affordable housing near their courthouses. On
recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference modified its
relocation regulations to allow law clerks relocating to and returning from
outside the conterminous United States to be reimbursed for transportation of
their privately owned vehicles if a chief judge makes a determination that
such reimbursement is “in the interest of the Government,” and the circuit
council concurs.


VOLUNTARY SEPARATION INCENTIVE
PAYMENT PROGRAM

        In September 2003, the Judicial Conference adopted a voluntary
separation incentive (buyout) payment program for fiscal year 2004 (JCUS-
SEP 03, pp. 27-28) as a management tool to accommodate reduced budgets,


                                      21
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      achieve workforce reshaping, and encourage staff with obsolete skills to leave
                      or retire. In April 2004, in response to a dire budget forecast for FY 2005, the
                      Executive Committee, on behalf of the Conference, approved a request from
                      the Judicial Resources Committee to extend the buyout program through
                      January 31, 2005 (see supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” pp. 7-8). At this
                      session, in order to allow the courts and federal public defender organizations
                      maximum flexibility to deal with the difficult budget situation, the Committee
                      recommended, and the Conference authorized, extension of the current buyout
                      program for Court Personnel System employees, official court reporters, and
                      federal public defender organization employees for the entire FY 2005, with
                      the understanding that courts and federal public defender organizations should
                      not assume that centralized funds will be available in fiscal year 2005. This
                      recommendation was included in the federal judiciary’s cost-containment
                      strategy adopted by the Conference at this session (see supra “Budget
                      Matters,” pp. 5-7).


                      EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION PROGRAM

                              The Judicial Conference, on recommendation of the Committee on
                      Judicial Resources, approved revisions to the judiciary’s employee
                      recognition program, Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, Volume 1,
                      Chapter 10, Subchapter 1451.2. The revisions address stewardship issues,
                      define authorization requirements and award limits, and clarify policy and
                      audit requirements.


                      PROMOTION POLICIES

                              Six Percent Promotion Rule. The Committee on Judicial Resources
                      recommended that the Conference modify the current promotion rule for
                      Court Personnel System employees that increases salaries by six percent. As
                      modified, the policy would allow court units the flexibility to establish a local
                      promotion policy that sets the increase for a fiscal year at a uniform, unit-wide
                      rate of not less than three percent nor more than six percent. The Conference
                      adopted the Committee’s recommendation, which is also included in the
                      Conference-approved cost-containment strategy (see supra, “Budget Matters,”
                      pp. 5-7).

                             Special Salary Rates. The judiciary has established special salary rates
                      in geographical areas where salaries being paid for specific occupations by
                      non-federal employers are so high that the salary gap between federal and


                                                             22
                                                                 September 21, 2004

non-federal employment significantly impairs government recruitment and
retention of well-qualified employees. Unlike locality pay rates, however,
special rates of pay are considered basic rates of pay. Therefore, a promotion
or reassignment from a job using special rate salary tables to one using
locality pay tables provides a large salary windfall to the employee. On
recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to modify
the compensation policy so that special salary rates are treated the same as
locality pay for promotions and reassignments. This item is contained in the
cost-containment strategy adopted by the Conference at this session (see
supra “Budget Matters,” pp. 5-7).

______________________
CHIEF CIRCUIT MEDIATORS

        Noting the importance of chief circuit mediators to the efficient
disposition of appellate cases, and the substantial legal responsibilities of their
offices, the Committee recommended that the Conference raise the target
grade for all chief circuit mediators from JSP-16 to JSP-17, to be implemented
upon request from each circuit chief judge, subject to the availability of funds.
The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.

______________________
TYPE II DEPUTIES

         Courts have generally been permitted to have only one Type II deputy
position per unit at a JSP-16 level unless the Conference finds unique
characteristics justifying an additional Type II deputy based on individual
justification provided by the court. The Committee was asked to consider
criteria to allow large and complex district and bankruptcy courts to have
second Type II deputy positions. On recommendation of the Committee, the
Judicial Conference authorized any unit in a district or bankruptcy court with
ten or more authorized judgeships to establish a second JSP-16 Type II deputy
position upon notification to the Administrative Office, to be funded with the
court’s decentralized funds.

        In addition, the Committee, citing extraordinary circumstances in the
Middle District of Florida, recommended a second JSP-16 Type II chief
deputy clerk position for the district clerk’s office in the Middle District of
Florida, using existing decentralized funding available to the court. The
Judicial Conference approved the recommendation.




                                        23
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      _________________
                      SECRETARY TO THE CHIEF JUDGE
                      OF THE COURT OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE

                              All secretaries to federal judges have a target grade of JSP-11, except
                      secretaries to chief circuit judges, who, if assigned exceptional circuit-wide
                      duties, can be raised to a target grade of JSP-12, which becomes permanent
                      after two years (JCUS-SEP 87, pp. 64-65; JCUS-SEP 98, p. 80). The chief
                      judge of the Court of International Trade requested an increase in the target
                      grade of her secretary from JSP-11 to JSP-12, citing the complexities of the
                      position and the substantial similarity between the duties and responsibilities
                      of her secretary and those of secretaries to circuit chief judges. On
                      recommendation of the Committee, the Conference increased the target grade
                      of the secretary to the chief judge of the Court of International Trade from
                      JSP-11 to JSP-12.

                      ______________________
                      COURT INTERPRETERS

                              Four additional Spanish/English official court interpreter positions
                      were requested for FY 2006: two for the District of Arizona, one for the
                      Northern District of Georgia, and one for the District of New Jersey. Based
                      on established criteria, the Committee on Judicial Resources recommended,
                      and the Judicial Conference approved, one additional court interpreter
                      position for FY 2006 for the Northern District of Georgia, subject to the
                      availability of funds.

                      ______________________
                      SELECTION OF CHIEF PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICERS

                               Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3152(c), chief pretrial services officers are
                      appointed by panels made up of the chief judge of the circuit, the chief judge
                      of the district, and a magistrate judge of the district, or their designees.
                      Expressing the view that this system is too cumbersome, particularly in
                      circuits with several pretrial services offices, the Committee on Criminal Law
                      requested that the Committee on Judicial Resources consider recommending
                      that legislation be sought to conform the selection process for chief pretrial
                      services officers to that for chief probation offices, who are appointed “by the
                      [district] court” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3602(c). After considering the views
                      of the Committees on Criminal Law and the Administration of the Magistrate
                      Judges System, the latter of which opposed eliminating the requirement that a
                      magistrate judge participate in the selection process, the Judicial Resources


                                                             24
                                                                September 21, 2004

Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference seek legislation that
would amend 18 U.S.C. § 3152(c) to make the selection process for chief
pretrial services officers the same as that for chief probation officers, thereby
eliminating the requirement for a chief circuit judge and a magistrate judge to
participate in the selection. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
recommendation.

______________________
HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION SYSTEM

        Noting that the current and anticipated constrained fiscal environment
calls for a rapid deployment of technological solutions that will yield work
and cost savings for the courts, the Committee recommended that the Judicial
Conference support full funding for the planned Human Resources
Management Information System technology-related efforts. The Conference
approved the Committee’s recommendation.

______________________
STREAMLINED TIMELY ACCESS TO STATISTICS

        The Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference affirm its
support for the new Streamlined Timely Access to Statistics (NewSTATS)
system for gathering and reporting statistics. The NewSTATS system is a
multi-year project consisting of two major components: 1) development of a
single, integrated enterprise database to replace the Administrative Office’s 13
existing stand-alone databases; and 2) development of a controlled customer-
access web capability that would allow users in the courts, the Administrative
Office, and the Federal Judicial Center access to reports in the database and
the ability to conduct queries of the data from their desktops. The Conference
approved the Committee’s recommendation.

______________________
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

        The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that in response to a
request from the Executive Committee, it provided a number of cost-
containment measures for the Executive Committee’s consideration in
developing short- and long-term strategies for dealing with budget shortfalls
anticipated in FY 2005 and the foreseeable future. In furtherance of its cost-
containment efforts, the Committee on Judicial Resources asked the
Administrative Office to prepare a project plan for a study of employee


                                       25
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      compensation policies, and to report back to the Committee at its December
                      2004 meeting. The Committee also asked the Administrative Office to work
                      with its appropriate advisory groups to develop and implement a process
                      redesign approach to work measurement that will enhance the effectiveness
                      and quality of court unit functions, while defining measurable procedures to
                      be included in the staffing formulae. These initiatives are included in the
                      comprehensive cost-containment strategy that the Conference adopted (see
                      supra, “Budget Matters,” pp. 5-7).


             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
             OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                      MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITION VACANCIES

                               Before a vacancy in a magistrate judge position can be filled, the
                      Director of the Administrative Office as well as the judicial council of the
                      relevant circuit must recommend that the position be filled (JCUS-OCT 70,
                      p. 72). In making such a determination, the Director seeks input from the
                      circuit representative on the Magistrate Judges Committee. In the current
                      budget climate, the Committee was of the view that further scrutiny is
                      required. The Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference
                      resolved, that all magistrate judge position vacancies be subject to review by
                      the full Magistrate Judges Committee unless the Committee chair decides,
                      based on a recent survey of the relevant district, that the vacancy may be filled
                      without full Committee involvement. This cost-containment measure is part
                      of the comprehensive cost-containment strategy approved by the Judicial
                      Conference at this session (see supra, “Budget Matters,” pp. 5-7).


                      MAGISTRATE JUDGE RECALL REGULATIONS

                              Salaries and benefits of recalled judges’ staffs comprise the most
                      costly component of the magistrate judge recall program. To ensure a
                      comprehensive review of the need for staff for recalled magistrate judges, on
                      recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to amend
                      section 7 of the Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States
                      Establishing Standards and Procedures for the Recall of United States
                      Magistrate Judges (the ad hoc recall regulations) and the Regulations of the
                      Judicial Conference of the United States Governing the Extended Service
                      Recall of Retired United States Magistrate Judges (the extended service recall
                      regulations) to read substantially as follows:


                                                             26
                                                                  September 21, 2004

       Subject to the approval of the judicial council of the circuit, a
       recalled magistrate judge may be provided with secretarial, law
       clerk, and courtroom deputy clerk services on a part-time or
       full-time basis, up to the same extent that those services are
       provided to a full-time magistrate judge in active service in the
       district of recall. The judicial council shall certify, initially and
       annually, that the recalled judge will perform or is performing
       “substantial service” and that the staff approved by the council
       is appropriate for the recalled judge’s workload. The judicial
       council also should consider whether existing staff of the court
       can provide support services.

The Conference-approved cost-containment strategy included this item (see
supra, “Budget Matters,” pp. 5-7).


CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

        After consideration of the report of the Committee on the
Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of
the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial
councils of the circuits, the Judicial Conference approved the following
changes in the number, salaries, locations, and arrangements for full-time and
part-time magistrate judge positions. Changes with a budgetary impact are to
be effective when appropriated funds are available.

THIRD CIRCUIT

District of Delaware

       Made no change in the number of positions, or the location or
       arrangements of the existing magistrate judge position in the district.

FOURTH CIRCUIT

Northern District of West Virginia

1.     Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
       Martinsburg from Level 3 ($48,856 per annum) to Level 1 ($67,178
       per annum); and

2.     Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
       magistrate judge positions in the district.



                                        27
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      Eastern District of North Carolina

                               Redesignated as Greenville the full-time magistrate judge position
                               currently designated as Wilmington, and redesignated as Wilmington
                               the part-time magistrate judge position currently designated as
                               Greenville.

                      FIFTH CIRCUIT

                      Southern District of Mississippi

                      1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                               Hattiesburg or Gulfport;

                      2.       Redesignated as Gulfport the full-time magistrate judge position
                               currently designated as Biloxi or Gulfport;

                      3.       Redesignated as Jackson or Gulfport the full-time magistrate judge
                               position currently designated as Jackson or Biloxi or Gulfport;

                      4.       Redesignated as Gulfport or Hattiesburg the full-time magistrate judge
                               position currently designated as Gulfport or Biloxi or Hattiesburg; and

                      5.       Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      SIXTH CIRCUIT

                      Eastern District of Kentucky

                      1.       Authorized the full-time magistrate judge position at Covington,
                               Kentucky, to serve in the adjoining Southern District of Ohio and the
                               two full-time magistrate judge positions at Cincinnati, Ohio, to serve
                               in the adjoining Eastern District of Kentucky in accordance with
                               28 U.S.C. § 631(a); and

                      2.       Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      Southern District of Ohio

                               Authorized the full-time magistrate judge position at Covington,
                               Kentucky, to serve in the adjoining Southern District of Ohio and the
                               two full-time magistrate judge positions at Cincinnati, Ohio, to serve


                                                             28
                                                               September 21, 2004

        in the adjoining Eastern District of Kentucky in accordance with
        28 U.S.C. § 631(a).

Western District of Kentucky

        Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

Northern District of Ohio

        Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

SEVENTH CIRCUIT

Central District of Illinois

        Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

Northern District of Indiana

        Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

Eastern District of Wisconsin

        Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at Green
        Bay from Level 6 ($12,213 per annum) to Level 4 ($36,642 per
        annum).

EIGHTH CIRCUIT

Eastern District of Arkansas

        Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
        magistrate judge positions in the district.

Southern District of Iowa

        Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
        magistrate judge positions in the district.




                                      29
Judicial Conference of the United States

                      District of South Dakota

                               Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                               the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      NINTH CIRCUIT

                      Central District of California

                      1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Los
                               Angeles;

                      2.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                               Riverside;

                      3.       Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Barstow upon
                               the expiration of the incumbent’s term on January 11, 2006 or upon
                               the appointment of the new full-time magistrate judge at Riverside,
                               whichever is later; and

                      4.       Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or
                               arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      TENTH CIRCUIT

                      District of Colorado

                               Made no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                               the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      District of New Mexico

                      1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Las
                               Cruces; and

                      2.       Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or
                               arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      District of Utah

                      1.       Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Salt
                               Lake City;




                                                              30
                                                                    September 21, 2004

    2.     Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge positions at Monticello
           and Vernal upon the appointment of the new full-time magistrate
           judge at Salt Lake City; and

    3.     Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or
           arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.


    ACCELERATED FUNDING

            On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed
    to designate the new full-time magistrate judge position at Las Cruces, New
    Mexico, for accelerated funding in fiscal year 2005.


    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

           The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges
    System reported that it voted unanimously to recommend to the Judicial
    Branch Committee that it recommend that the Judicial Conference support
    pending legislation to extend the “FEGLI fix” to magistrate judges and
    bankruptcy judges. The Magistrate Judges Committee also considered
    updated diversity statistics from The Judiciary Fair Employment Practices
    Annual Report published for the period October 1, 2002 to September 30,
    2003, and noted that magistrate judges were a more diverse population in
    2003 than in 2002.


COMMITTEE TO REVIEW CIRCUIT COUNCIL
CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ORDERS
    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

           The Committee to Review Circuit Council Conduct and Disability
    Orders approved a study to examine the operation of the existing procedures
    under the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act (28 U.S.C. § 351 et seq.),
    proposed by the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act Study Committee
    appointed by Chief Justice Rehnquist and chaired by Justice Stephen Breyer.
    The Committee communicated its approval to Justice Breyer by letter dated
    August 16, 2004. Pursuant to Rule 16(h) of the Illustrative Rules Governing
    Complaints of Judicial Misconduct and Disability (which has been adopted by
    most of the circuits), the Committee’s approval permits the circuit councils to
    authorize access to confidential materials for purposes of this research project.

                                           31
Judicial Conference of the United States

             COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
                      FEDERAL RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Appellate Rules 4 (Appeal as of
                      Right – When Taken), 26 (Computing and Extending Time), 27 (Motions), 28
                      (Briefs), 32 (Form of Briefs, Appendices, and Other Papers), 34 (Oral
                      Argument), 35 (En Banc Determination), and 45 (Clerk’s Duties) and
                      proposed new Rule 28.1 (Cross-Appeals), together with Committee notes
                      explaining their purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference approved the
                      amendments and new rule and authorized their transmittal to the Supreme
                      Court for its consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted by the
                      Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                      FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1007 (Lists,
                      Schedules, and Statements; Time Limits), 3004 (Filing of Claims by Debtor or
                      Trustee), 3005 (Filing of Claim, Acceptance, or Rejection by Guarantor,
                      Surety, Indorser, or Other Codebtor), 4008 (Discharge and Reaffirmation
                      Hearing), 7004 (Process; Service of Summons, Complaint), and 9006 (Time),
                      together with Committee notes explaining their purpose and intent. The
                      Judicial Conference approved the amendments and authorized their
                      transmittal to the Supreme Court for its consideration with a recommendation
                      that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance
                      with the law. In addition, the Committee recommended, and the Conference
                      approved, amendments to Official Forms 16D (Caption for Use in Adversary
                      Proceeding Other Than for a Complaint Filed by a Debtor) and 17 (Notice of
                      Appeal Under 28 U.S.C. § 158(a) or (b) From a Judgment, Order, or Decree
                      of a Bankruptcy Judge) to take effect on December 1, 2004, and to Schedule
                      G of Official Form 6 (Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases) to take
                      effect on December 1, 2005.




                                                           32
                                                               September 21, 2004



    FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

             The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
    Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Civil Rules 6 (Time), 27
    (Depositions Before Action or Pending Appeal), and 45 (Subpoena), and
    Supplemental Rules for Certain Admiralty and Maritime Claims B (In
    Personam Actions: Attachment and Garnishment) and C (In Rem Actions:
    Special Provisions), together with Committee notes explaining their purpose
    and intent. The Judicial Conference approved the amendments and authorized
    their transmittal to the Supreme Court for its consideration with a
    recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to
    Congress in accordance with the law.


    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

            The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
    Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Criminal Rules 12.2 (Notice of
    an Insanity Defense; Mental Examination), 29 (Motion for a Judgment of
    Acquittal), 32 (Sentencing and Judgment),5 32.1 (Revoking or Modifying
    Probation or Supervised Release), 33 (New Trial), 34 (Arresting Judgment),
    and 45 (Computing and Extending Time), and proposed new Rule 59 (Matters
    Before a Magistrate Judge), together with Committee notes explaining their
    purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference approved the amendments and
    new rule and authorized their transmittal to the Supreme Court for its
    consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and
    transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.




5
 Subsequent to this session, Congress passed the Justice for All Act of 2004
(Public Law No. 108-405) which provides for broader rights of crime victims to
be heard at public proceedings than the proposed amendment to Criminal Rule
32. To avoid conflict and confusion, at the request of the Rules Committee, the
Executive Committee, on behalf of the Conference, by mail ballot concluded on
October 26, 2004, withdrew the proposed amendment to Rule 32 prior to its
transmittal to the Supreme Court.

                                        33
Judicial Conference of the United States



                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure approved for
                      publication proposed amendments to Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure
                      1009, 2002, 4002, 5005, 7004, 9001, 9036, and Schedule I of Official Form 6;
                      Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 16, 26, 33, 34, 37, 45, 50, and Form 35;
                      Supplemental Rules for Certain Admiralty and Maritime Claims A, C, and E,
                      and new Rule G; Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure 5, 32.1, 40, 41, and 58;
                      and Federal Rules of Evidence 404, 408, 606, and 609. The Committee also
                      approved publishing for public comment, at a later date, proposed style
                      revisions to Civil Rules 38-63 (except Rule 45, which was approved earlier)
                      and noncontroversial style/substantive amendments to Civil Rules 4, 9, 11, 14,
                      16, 26, 30, 31, 36, and 40 as part of a larger package of revisions to other rules
                      currently under review.


             COMMITTEE ON SECURITY AND FACILITIES
                     COURTHOUSE CONSTRUCTION FUNDING

                              Because of the critical fiscal situation facing the judiciary, the
                     Committee on Security and Facilities recommended that the Judicial
                     Conference seek full funding for FY 2005 only for the four courthouse projects
                     designated by the Conference in September 2003 as judicial space emergency
                     projects, rather than for the entire FY 2005 list of courthouse projects approved
                     at that time (JCUS-SEP 03, pp. 37-38). In order to provide this information to
                     Congress at the earliest possible time, the Judicial Conference approved the
                     Committee’s recommendation by mail ballot concluded on March 25, 2004.
                     The four projects for which funding will be sought are Los Angeles,
                     California; El Paso, Texas; San Diego, California; and Las Cruces, New
                     Mexico.


                     TWO-YEAR MORATORIUM ON
                     COURTHOUSE CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS

                             To control rental costs, which now constitute approximately 22 percent
                     of the judiciary’s total budget, the Committee on Security and Facilities
                     recommended that the Judicial Conference take the following actions:



                                                             34
                                                                 September 21, 2004

a.     Impose a moratorium for 24 months on the planning, authorizing, and
       budgeting for courthouse construction projects and new prospectus-
       level repair and alteration projects (except for those projects dedicated
       solely to building system upgrades) to enable a reevaluation of the
       long-range facilities planning process. The reevaluation shall include
       an assessment of the underlying assumptions used to project space
       needs and how courts can satisfy those needs with minimal costs in
       short- and long-term constrained budgetary environments;

b.     Apply the moratorium to those courthouse projects on the Five-Year
       Courthouse Project Plan for FYs 2005-2009 as follows:

       (1) the 35 courthouse projects not yet in design; and

       (2) the seven projects with congressional appropriations and
       authorizations that are ready to start design;

c.     Authorize the Administrative Office Director, in consultation with the
       appropriate circuit judicial council and the circuit representative to the
       Committee on Security and Facilities, to determine if an emergency
       warrants an exemption from the moratorium; and

d.     Request that the General Services Administration cease the preparation
       of all new feasibility studies, except those involving only building
       systems, until the re-evaluation of the long-range facilities planning
       process is completed.

The Judicial Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations, which are
also included in the cost-containment strategy for the judiciary approved by the
Conference at this session (see supra “Budget Matters,” pp. 5-7).


LIMITS ON SPACE GROWTH

         Recognizing that there were no real limits on the amount of space
circuit judicial councils could approve, the Committee considered whether
national limits should be established to control rental costs of new courthouses
and major repair and alteration projects and whether an annual square footage




                                       35
Judicial Conference of the United States

                     allocation for non-prospectus projects6 should be provided to each circuit
                     judicial council. Because such limits require examination of each circuit’s
                     space inventory, as well as growth factors, budget estimates, and more, the
                     Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference endorse the following:

                     a.       A request to all chief circuit judges to cancel pending space requests
                              wherever possible;

                     b.       As an interim measure, a budget check process to be performed
                              together by the Administrative Office and circuit judicial council staff
                              and instituted immediately to ensure that all pending space requests
                              before the circuit councils reflect consideration of alternative space,
                              future rent implications, and affordability by the judiciary; and

                     c.       If funding is not available for the request, but a circuit judicial council
                              nevertheless determines that the space is “necessary” pursuant to its
                              statutory authority, the council must then seek an exception from the
                              Judicial Conference through this Committee in coordination with the
                              Budget Committee.

                     The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation, which is also
                     contained in the cost-containment strategy approved by the Conference at this
                     session (see supra, “Budget Matters,” pp. 5-7).


                     TENANT ALTERATIONS CRITERIA

                             Noting the lack of a nationwide model for assessing the cost
                     effectiveness and value of non-prospectus tenant alteration projects, the
                     Security and Facilities Committee had previously requested the Administrative
                     Office to conduct a tenant alteration criteria study. Based on this study, the
                     Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference endorsed, criteria for
                     scoring and prioritizing non-prospectus tenant alterations projects and a cost
                     model for determining project estimates. These criteria will be particularly
                     helpful during times of budgetary shortfalls, but are not intended to substitute
                     for decision-making at the local level by courts and/or circuit judicial councils.
                     This item is part of the Conference-approved cost-containment strategy (see
                     supra, “Budget Matters,” pp. 5-7).



                    6
                      A non-prospectus project is one that would cost less than $2.36 million dollars
                    in FY 2005 and does not require line-item approval by Congress.

                                                               36
                                                                 September 21, 2004



    COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

            The Committee on Security and Facilities reported that it voted to
    accelerate its comprehensive review of the U.S. Courts Design Guide for
    consideration by the Judicial Conference. This review will emphasize
    (1) controlling costs; (2) examining existing space standards; (3) meeting
    functional space needs of the courts; and (4) sharing space. The Committee
    discussed the March 2004 Department of Justice Inspector General Report on
    the U.S. Marshals Service Judicial Security Process, which made six
    recommendations to improve the protection afforded the federal judiciary.
    The Committee was also briefed on the status of two U.S. Marshals Service
    studies required by the FY 2003 Omnibus Appropriations Act, Public Law No.
    108-7, and the multiple pending lawsuits regarding the judiciary’s court
    security officer medical standards.

.
MEMORIAL RESOLUTIONS
           The Judicial Conference approved the following resolutions noting the
    deaths of the Honorable Charles H. Haden II of the United States District
    Court for the Southern District of West Virginia; the Honorable Judith N.
    Keep of the United States District Court for the Southern District of
    California; and the Honorable Morey L. Sear of the United States District
    Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana:

                  The Judicial Conference of the United States notes with
           sadness the death of the Honorable Charles H. Haden II of the
           United States District Court for the Southern District of West
           Virginia, on March 20, 2004, at his home in Charleston, West
           Virginia.

                   Judge Haden served with distinction on the federal
           bench for twenty-nine years. He was Chief Judge of the
           District Court from 1982 to 2002. Judge Haden was appointed
           to the Committee on the Administration of the Probation
           System by Chief Justice Warren E. Burger in 1979, and served
           until 1986. In June 1997, he was elected as the Fourth Circuit
           District Judge Representative to the Judicial Conference of the
           United States, and in October 1999, Chief Justice William H.
           Rehnquist named him to the Executive Committee of the



                                         37
Judicial Conference of the United States

                               Judicial Conference and later appointed him Chairman of that
                               committee where he served from 2000 to 2002. His service as
                               Chairman was outstanding, and the committee flourished under his
                               leadership. Judge Haden was also among a select number of West
                               Virginians who had served in all three branches of West Virginia
                               government, first, in the legislative branch as a Member of the House
                               of Delegates, then in the executive branch as State Tax Commissioner,
                               and finally in the judicial branch as a Justice and then Chief Justice of
                               the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia. Judge Haden always
                               said that he would like to be remembered as a public servant. He was
                               a kind, thoughtful, and wise man, who will be missed by all who knew
                               him.

                                      The members of the Judicial Conference convey their
                               deepest sympathies to Judge Haden’s widow, Priscilla, and to
                               his family.

                                                             ***

                                       The Judicial Conference of the United States
                               acknowledges with sorrow the death of the Honorable Judith
                               N. Keep of the United States District Court for the Southern
                               District of California, on September 14, 2004, in San Diego,
                               California.

                                       Judge Keep served with distinction on the federal bench
                               for 24 years. She was Chief Judge of the District Court from
                               1991 to 1998. She was the District Court’s first female judge
                               and its first female Chief Judge. Judge Keep was appointed to
                               the Committee on Defender Services by Chief Justice William
                               H. Rehnquist in 1998, and served until 2004. In October 1999,
                               she was elected as the Ninth Circuit District Judge
                               Representative to the Judicial Conference of the United States.
                               She served as a valued member of the Judicial Conference
                               through September 2002. Judge Keep also made a significant
                               contribution to court governance as an eight-year member of
                               the Judicial Council of the Ninth Circuit, where she served as a
                               representative of the Chief District Judges of the Circuit and
                               the District Judges Association, and as a member of the
                               Judicial Conference. Her service to the Ninth Circuit also
                               included chairing the Task Force on Judicial Disability, which



                                                              38
                                                       September 21, 2004

helped pave the way for new initiatives that promoted health and well
being among judges.

        Judge Keep was known for her sharp intellect,
infectious laugh and ability to bring people together for the
common good. She will be deeply missed and fondly
remembered by her many colleagues and friends throughout
the judiciary.

        The members of the Judicial Conference convey their
deepest sympathies to Judge Keep’s husband, Russell L. Block,
and to her family.

                             ***

       The Judicial Conference of the United States notes with
sadness the death of the Honorable Morey L. Sear of the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, on September 6, 2004, in New Orleans, Louisiana.

        Judge Sear was appointed in 1971 as one of the first
magistrate judges in the Eastern District of Louisiana. He was
appointed a United States District Judge by President Gerald R.
Ford on May 7, 1976. He served as Chief Judge of the Eastern
District of Louisiana from 1992 to 1999, and assumed senior
status in 2000.

         Judge Sear made significant contributions to court
governance not only in his own district but also at the national
level. He served as chairman of the Judicial Conference’s
Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules from 1984 to 1986,
and as chairman of the Committee on the Administration of the
Bankruptcy System from 1986 to 1990. In 1992, Judge Sear
was elected as the Fifth Circuit’s District Judge Representative
to the Judicial Conference. While serving on the Judicial
Conference, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist appointed
Judge Sear to the Executive Committee, where he served from
1993 until 1995. In 1993, Judge Sear was instrumental in
instituting the first standing meeting of the District Judge
Representatives to the Judicial Conference, where issues of
common concern to the district courts and their judges could be



                               39
Judicial Conference of the United States

                               vetted. These have become vital meetings that continue to be held
                               today following each Judicial Conference session.

                                       Judge Sear was a courageous, hard-working jurist, and
                               a statesman of the first order. We will miss his dry sense of
                               humor and his collegial manner. The members of the Judicial
                               Conference convey their deepest sympathies to Judge Sear’s
                               wife, Lee, and to his family.


             FUNDING
                              All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                      funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                      the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                      establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                   Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                   Presiding




                                                             40
                                                       September 21, 2004

INDEX

Administrative Office, Committee on the, 8

Administrative Office of the United States Courts
     compensation study, 25-26
     cost containment, 5, 8
     intercircuit assignment data collection, 18
     magistrate judge positions
         changes, 27-31
         filling vacancies, 26
     space requests
         budget check process, 35-36
         moratorium, exceptions, 15-16, 34-35
     staffing formulae, 20-21
     statistical reporting system, 9, 25
     stewardship program, 8
     substance abuse treatment program study, 15
     tenant alterations criteria, 36
     Type II deputies, 23
     work measurement, 26

Administrator of General Services, 19

American Bar Association, 19

Appropriations (see also cost containment)
     act, FY 2004, 12
     bill, FY 2005, 10
     budget request, FY 2006, 10
     Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2005, 11, 12
     continuing resolution, 5, 10
     cost containment, 5-7
     Court Security account, 5-6
     courthouse construction funding, 34
     defender organization funding, 16
     Defender Services account, 5-6
     Fees of Jurors and Commissioners account, 5-6




                                         i
Judicial Conference of the United States

Appropriations (continued)
      Omnibus Appropriations Act, FY 2003, 37
      financial plans,
         FY 2004, 5
         FY 2005, 5-6
      Salaries and Expenses account, 5-6, 15

Automation (see information technology)

Bankruptcy appellate panels, 19

Bankruptcy judges (see judges, bankruptcy)

Bankruptcy rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Bankruptcy system (see also court administration; judges, bankruptcy; judges, federal;
judgeships, bankruptcy)
       authorized judicial meetings, 19
       Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule, 11
       clerks’ offices, staffing formula, 9, 20-21
       consumer education programs, 9
       cost containment, 9
       judgeships, 8-9
       miscellaneous fees, motion to lift automatic stay, 11
       rules of practice and procedure, 32
       sharing administrative services, 12-13
       Type II deputies, 23

Bankruptcy System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 8-9

Barnhart, Jo Anne B., 17

Bauer, William J., 4

Budget (see appropriations)

Budget, Committee on the, 6, 10, 36

Buy-out program (see voluntary separation incentive program)

Carnes, Edward E., 4

                                           ii
                                                                       September 21, 2004

Case management (see court administration)

Case management/electronic case files (CM/ECF) system, 12, 13-14

Central Violations Bureau (CVB), 12

Chief circuit mediators, 23

Chief judges (see judges, chief)

Chief Justice, 5, 18

Child custody legislation, 16-17

Circuit councils (see circuit judicial councils)

Circuit judges (see judges, circuit)

Circuit judicial councils
       bankruptcy judgeship vacancies, 9
       changes in magistrate judge positions, 27-31
       Judicial Conduct and Disability Act study, 31
       law clerk reimbursement, transportation of privately owned vehicle, 21
       magistrate judge position vacancies, 26
       recalled magistrate judge staff, 26-27
       space requests
          budget check process, 35-36
          moratorium, exceptions, 15-16, 34-35

Civil rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

CM/ECF (see case management/electronic case files)

Codes of Conduct, Committee on, 11

Community defender organizations (see defender services)




Compensation
     cost containment, 6-7, 22-23

                                             iii
Judicial Conference of the United States

        Court of International Trade secretary, target grade, 24
        judicial, 20
        policy review, 6, 25-26
        six percent promotion rule, 22
        special salary rates, 22-23

Conduct and Disability Orders, Committee to Review
Circuit Council, 31

Congress (see also appropriations; legislation, pending)
      appropriations acts
         FY 2003, 37
         FY 2004, 12
         FY 2005, 11, 12
      appropriations bill, FY 2005, 10
      bankruptcy judgeships, 8-9
      congressional advisory group on sentencing, 14
      continuing resolution, 5, 10
      courthouse construction funding, 34
      House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, State, the Judiciary,
         and Related Agencies, 14
      juror utilization report, 8

Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2005, 11, 12

cost containment, 5-7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12-13, 13, 14-15, 15-16, 16, 18, 20, 21-22, 22-23,
25-26, 26, 26-27, 34-37

Cost-Containment Strategy for the Federal Judiciary:
2005 and Beyond (see also cost containment), 6-7

Court administration (see also bankruptcy system; cost containment; courts of appeals;
district courts; fees; jury administration; magistrate judges system; records; staffing
resources)
         administrative services study, 12-13, 18
         case management/electronic case files (CM/ECF) system, 12, 13-14
         electronic public access
            model local rule, 13
            transcripts, 7, 13


Court administration (continued)


                                             iv
                                                                        September 21, 2004

       Internal Controls Handbook for the Federal Courts, 8
       juror utilization report, 8
       rules of procedure, 32-34
       telecommuting policy, 8
       voluntary separation incentive (“buy-out”) program, 7, 21-22

Court Administration and Case Management, Committee on, 7, 10, 11-14

Court of International Trade
      secretary to chief judge, 24

Court interpreters, 24

Court Personnel System, 22

Court reporters
      voluntary separation incentive (“buy-out”) program, 21-22

Court unit executives
      sharing administrative services, 12-13

Courthouses (see space and facilities)

Courtrooms (see space and facilities)

Courts of appeals (see also court administration)
      attorney admission fee, 12
      chief circuit mediators, 23
      Criminal Justice Act practices, 16
      miscellaneous fee schedule, 12

Criminal Justice Act (CJA) (see also defender services; federal defenders), 16

Criminal law (see also defender services; probation and pretrial services system)
      congressional advisory group on sentencing, 14
      cost containment, 6-7, 14-15
      Model Grand Jury Charge, 13
      pretrial services supervision monograph, 14
      probation and pretrial services program changes, 14-15
      rules, 33, 34

Criminal Law, Committee on, 13, 14-15, 24


                                            v
Judicial Conference of the United States

Defender services (see also Criminal Justice Act; federal defenders; personnel, judiciary)
      cost containment, 6-7 15-16, 16
      Criminal Justice Act, 16
      defender organization funding, 16
      relocation regulations, 21
      rental cost controls, 15-16
      space request moratorium, 15
      training, federal defenders/panel attorneys, 16
      voluntary separation incentive (“buy-out”) program, 7, 21-22

Defender Services, Committee on, 13, 15-16

Department of Justice, 37
      Inspector General Report on the U.S. Marshals Service Judicial
         Security Process, 37
      United States Marshals Service, 37

Department of State, 19

Design Guide (see U.S. Courts Design Guide)

Director, Administrative Office of the United States Courts, 16, 26, 27, 35

District Clerks Advisory Group, 21

District courts (see also bankruptcy system; court administration; fees; jury
administration; magistrate judges system; probation and pretrial services system; staffing
resources)
       changes in magistrate judge positions, 27-31
       clerks’offices, staffing formula, 20-21
       court interpreter positions, 24
       filing fee, 11
       juror utilization report, 8
       rules of practice and procedure, 32-34
       selection of chief pretrial services officers, 24-25
       sharing administrative services, 12-13
       transcripts, electronic access, 7, 13
       Type II deputies, 23

District judges (see judges, district)

Electronic case filing, 13-14


                                            vi
                                                                        September 21, 2004


Electronic public access (EPA)
       case management/electronic case files (CM/ECF) system, 12, 13-14
       Electronic Public Access Fee Schedule, 12
       fee, 12
       Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER) Internet fee, 12
       transcripts, 7, 13

Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 17

Executive branch
      Department of Justice, 37
         United States Marshals Service, 37
      Department of State, 19
      General Services Administration, 19, 35
      President of the United States, 10
      Social Security Administration, 17

Executive Committee, 4-8, 9,10, 13,15, 16, 22, 25, 33

Federal defenders (see also Criminal Justice Act, defender services; personnel, judiciary)
      relocation regulations, 21
      telecommuting policy, 8
      training, FY 2005, 16
      voluntary separation incentive (“buy-out”) program, 22

Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance (FEGLI), 9, 31

Federal Judicial Center, 15, 25

Federal public defender organizations (see defender services)

Federal rules (see rules of practice and procedure)

Federalization
      child custody order conflicts, 16-17

Federal-State Jurisdiction, Committee on, 16-17

Federal-state relations,
      child custody, 16-17



                                             vii
Judicial Conference of the United States

Fees
        bankruptcy court, motion to lift automatic stay, 11
        Central Violations Bureau (CVB) processing, 12
        cost containment, 6-7
        court of appeals, attorney admission fee, 12
        district court, filing, 11
        electronic public access, 12
        increases, 10, 11, 12
        judiciary fee account, 11, 12
        miscellaneous
           bankruptcy, 11
           court of appeals, 12
        new, 10, 12
        Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER) Internet fee, 12

“FEGLI fix”, 9, 31

Financial Disclosure, Committee on, 17-18

Financial disclosure reports, 17-18

General Services Administration, 19, 35

Gerry, Martin H., 17

Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures, 13, 22

Haden, Charles H. II, 37-38

Human Resources Management Information System, 25

Illustrative Rules Governing Complaints of Judicial
Misconduct and Disability, 31

Information technology (see also electronic public access)
      case management/electronic case files (CM/ECF) system, 12, 13-14
      cost containment, 6-7, 18
      electronic case filing, 13-14
      Human Resources Management Information System, 25
      PACER Internet Fee, 12




                                           viii
                                                                            September 21, 2004

Information Technology (continued)
       service delivery models, 18
       sharing resources, 12-13, 18
       Streamlined Timely Access to Statistics (NewSTATS), 25

Information Technology, Committee on, 18

Intercircuit assignments
       approved, 18
       cost containment, 18
       data collection, 18
       lender/borrower rule, 18
       long-term assignments, 18

Intercircuit Assignments, Committee on, 18

Internal Controls Handbook for the Federal Courts, 8

International Judicial Relations, Committee on, 19

Internet (see electronic public access; information technology)

Jacobs, Dennis G., 4

Judges, Article III (see also judges, chief; judges, district; judges, federal)
      intercircuit assignments, 18

Judges, bankruptcy (see also bankruptcy system; judges, chief; judges, federal;
judgeships, bankruptcy)
       authorized judicial meetings, 19
       “FEGLI fix”, 9, 31

Judges, chief
      circuit
         chief circuit mediator target grade, 23
          space requests, 35-36
      Court of International Trade secretary, target grade, 24
      law clerk reimbursement, transportation of privately owned vehicles, 21
      selection of chief pretrial services officer, 24-25
      sharing administrative services, 12-13

Judges, circuit (see judges, Article III; judges, chief; judges, federal)


                                              ix
Judicial Conference of the United States

Judges, Court of Federal Claims (see judges, chief; judges, federal)

Judges, district (see judges, Article III; judges, chief; judges, federal)

Judges, federal (see also judges, Article III; judges, bankruptcy; judges, chief; judges,
magistrate)
       compensation, 20
       death while in travel status, 19
       financial disclosure reports, 17-18
       information technology training, 18
       lawbooks, 13
       travel
          alternative subsistence rate, 8
          authorized judicial meetings, 20
          automobile rental, 20
          death while in travel status, 19
          first-class accommodations, 20
       Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, 19-20

Judges, magistrate (see also judges, federal; magistrate judges system)
      accelerated funding, 31
      changes in positions, 27-31
      “FEGLI fix”, 9, 31
      recall regulations, 26-27
      selection of chief pretrial services officers, 24
      staff, recalled judges, 26-27
      vacancies, approval to fill, 26

Judgeships, bankruptcy
      continuing need, 8-9
      vacancies, 8-9

Judicial Branch, Committee on the, 8, 9, 19-20, 31

Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, 31

Judicial Conference of the United States
       funding of actions, 40
       mail ballot, 10, 34

Judicial Resources, Committee on, 7, 8, 9, 15, 18, 20-26



                                               x
                                                                          September 21, 2004

Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) (see also personnel, judiciary)
       chief circuit mediators, target grade, 23
       secretary, Court of International Trade chief judge, 24

Jury administration
      juror utilization report, 8
      Model Grand Jury Charge, 13

Justice for All Act of 2004, 33

Keep, Judith N., 37, 38-39

Law clerks
      relocation regulations, 21
      transportation of privately owned vehicles, 21

Lawbooks, 13

Legislation, pending (108th Congress)
       appropriations bill (H.R. 4754), FY 2005, 10
       child custody legislation (S. 2202, H.R. 3941, H.R. 4347), 16-17
       Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2004 (S. 2290), 17

Local rules
       electronic case filing, 13-14

Magistrate judges (see judges, magistrate)

Magistrate judges system (see also judges, magistrate)
      changes in positions, 27-31
      cost containment, 26-27
      magistrate judge position vacancies, 26
      recall regulations, 26-27

Magistrate Judges System, Committee on the Administration
of the, 24, 26-31

Mail ballot of the Judicial Conference, 10, 34

Miscellaneous fee schedules (see fees)

National Center for State Courts, 19


                                             xi
Judicial Conference of the United States

Omnibus Appropriations Act, FY 2003, 37

Osteen, William L., Sr., 4

PACER, 12

Panel attorneys (see also Criminal Justice Act)
       training, FY 2005, 16

Parental Kidnapping Prevention Act, 16

Personnel, judiciary (see also federal defenders; law clerks; staffing resources)
      chief circuit mediators, 23
      compensation
          chief circuit mediators, 23
          policy study, 6, 25-26
          promotions, 22-23
          secretary, Court of International Trade, 24
          special salary rates, 22-23
      Court Personnel System employees, 22
      employee recognition program, 22
      financial disclosure reports, 17-18
      Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP), 23, 24
      law clerks, transportation of privately owned vehicles, 21
      promotion policies, 22-23
      relocation regulations, 21
      secretary to chief judge, Court of International Trade, 24
      stewardship, 8, 22
      telecommuting policy, 8
      voluntary separation incentive (“buy-out”) program, 7, 21-22
      workforce efficiency, 6

President of the United States, 10

Probation and pretrial services officers (see also personnel, judiciary; probation and
pretrial services system)
        congressional advisory group on sentencing, 14
        pretrial services supervision monograph, 14
        selection process for chief pretrial services officers, 24-25
        staffing formulae, 15, 20-21




                                            xii
                                                                        September 21, 2004

Probation and pretrial services system (see also probation and pretrial services officers)
      cost-containment program changes, 14-15
      post-conviction supervision, 14-15
      presentence investigation reports, 14-15
      pretrial services investigations, 14-15
      pretrial services supervision, 14-15
      selection process, chief pretrial services officers, 24-25
      staffing formula, 15, 20-21
      The Supervision of Federal Defendants, Monograph 111, 14

Public Access to Court Electronic Records (see PACER)
Records
       electronic case filing, 13-14
       electronic public access, 12, 13-14
       transcripts, 7, 13

Relocation regulations, 21

Resolutions
      Bauer, William J., 4-5
      Carnes, Edward E., 4-5
      Haden, Charles H. II, 37-38
      Jacobs, Dennis G., 4-5
      Keep, Judith N., 37, 38-39
      Osteen, William L., Sr., 4-5
      Sear, Morey L., 37, 39-40
      Small, A. Thomas, 4-5
      Stamp, Frederick P., Jr., 4-5

Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States Establishing
Standards and Procedures for the Recall of United States Magistrate Judges, 26

Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States Governing the Extended
Service Recall of Retired United States Magistrate Judges, 26

Rule of law programs, 19

Rules of practice and procedure
       admiralty rules, 34
       appellate rules, 12, 32
       bankruptcy rules, 13, 32, 34
       civil rules, 13, 33, 34


                                           xiii
Judicial Conference of the United States

Rules of practice and procedure (continued)
       criminal rules, 33, 34
       evidence rules, 34
       model local, electronic case filing, 13-14

Rules of Practice and Procedure, Committee on, 13, 32-34

Salaries (see compensation)

Sear, Morey L., 37, 39-40

Security
       cost containment, 6-7
       information technology, 18
       Inspector General Report on the U.S. Marshals Service Judicial
          Security Process, 37

Security and Facilities, Committee on, 34-37

Sentencing
      congressional advisory group on sentencing, 14

Sharing administrative services, 12-13

Small, A. Thomas, 4

Social Security Administration, 17

Space and facilities (see also security)
      cost containment, 6-7, 15-16, 34-37
      courthouse construction
         funding, 34
         moratorium, 34-35
         rental cost controls, 34-36
         tenant alterations criteria, 36
      federal defender organization space requests, 15-16
      Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan, FYs 2005-2009, 34-35
      long-range facilities planning, 34-35
      moratorium, 15-16, 34-35




                                            xiv
                                                                      September 21, 2004

Space and Facilities (continued)
       rental cost controls, 15-16, 34-36
       repair and alteration, 34-35, 35-36
       tenant alterations criteria, 36
       U.S. Courts Design Guide, 37

Staffing formulae, 9, 15, 20-21

Staffing resources (see also personnel, judiciary)
       cost containment, 6-7
       court interpreter positions, 24
       recalled magistrate judge’s staff, 26-27
       staffing formulae
          bankruptcy clerks’ offices, 9, 20-21
          district clerks’ offices, 20-21
          probation/pretrial services offices, 15, 20-21
       Type II deputy positions, 23
       voluntary separation incentive (“buy-out”) program, 7, 21-22
       work measurement, process redesign, 25-26
       workforce efficiency, 6

Stamp, Frederick P., Jr., 4

Streamlined Timely Access to Statistics (New STATS), 25

Supporting personnel (see personnel, judiciary)

Technology (see information technology)

Telecommuting, 8

The Supervision of Federal Defendants, Monograph 111, 14

Transcripts
      electronic public access, 7, 13

Travel, judges’
       alternative subsistence rate, 8
       authorized judicial meetings, 19
       automobile rentals, 20
       cost containment, 20
       death while in travel status, 19


                                             xv
Judicial Conference of the United States

Travel, judges’ (continued)
        first-class accommodations, 20
        regulations, 19-20
        Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, 19-20

Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges, 19-20

Type II deputy, 23

United States Marshals Service, 37

U.S. Courts Design Guide, 37

Vera Institute of Justice, 16

Voluntary separation incentive (“buy-out”) program, 7, 21-22




                                           xvi
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE U.S. COURTS
THURGOOD MARSHALL FEDERAL JUDICIARY BUILDING
          WASHINGTON, D.C. 20544
