Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 June 17, 2008


R EPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE J UDICIAL C ONFERENCE
OF THE U NITED S TATES


Special Session
June 17, 2008


                              The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in special
                      session by telephone conference call on June 17, 2008, pursuant to the call of
                      the Chief Justice of the United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The
                      Chief Justice presided, and the following members of the Conference
                      participated:

                               First Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                           Judge Ernest C. Torres,
                                                  District of Rhode Island

                               Second Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs
                                           Chief Judge William K. Sessions III,
                                                  District of Vermont

                               Third Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Anthony J. Scirica
                                           Chief Judge Garrett E. Brown, Jr.,
                                                  District of New Jersey

                               Fourth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Karen J. Williams
                                           Chief Judge James P. Jones,
                                                  Western District of Virginia
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            June 17, 2008

                               Fifth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Edith Hollan Jones
                                           Judge Sim Lake,
                                                  Southern District of Texas

                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Danny J. Boggs
                                           Judge Thomas M. Rose,
                                                  Southern District of Ohio

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook
                                           Judge Wayne R. Andersen,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge James B. Loken
                                           Judge Lawrence L. Piersol,
                                                  District of South Dakota

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Judge Charles R. Breyer,
                                                  Northern District of California

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Robert H. Henry
                                           Judge Alan B. Johnson,
                                                  District of Wyoming

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge J. L. Edmondson




                                                               2
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  June 17,2008

                                District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge David Bryan Sentelle
                                           Chief Judge Royce C. Lamberth,
                                                  District of Columbia

                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Paul R. Michel

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Jane A. Restani

                               Also present for this session of the Conference were Judge Ralph K.
                       Winter, Jr., Chair of the Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability, and
                       from the Administrative Office of the United States Courts (AO), James
                       C. Duff, Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General
                       Counsel; Bret G. Saxe, Assistant General Counsel; Laura C. Minor, Assistant
                       Director, and Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant Director, Judicial Conference
                       Executive Secretariat; and David A. Sellers, Assistant Director, Office of
                       Public Affairs. Jeffrey P. Minear, Administrative Assistant to the Chief
                       Justice, attended as well.


              P ROCEEDINGS U NDER THE J UDICIAL C ONDUCT AND
              D ISABILITY A CT
                               The Chief Justice called this special teleconference session of the
                       Judicial Conference to consider a certificate issued on December 20, 2007, by
                       the Judicial Council of the Fifth Circuit pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 354(b)(2)(A),
                       conveying a determination that Judge G. Thomas Porteous, Jr., of the United
                       States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana had engaged in
                       conduct that might constitute one or more grounds for impeachment under
                       Article II of the United States Constitution. On February 13, 2008, this
                       matter, In re: Complaint of Judicial Misconduct against United States District
                       Judge G. Thomas Porteous, Jr. under the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act
                       of 1980, was referred to the Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability,
                       which in June 2008 issued a report with recommendations to the Judicial




                                                                3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                      June 17, 2008

                      Conference, as required by the rules adopted by the Judicial Conference for
                      processing such complaints.

                             In advance of the teleconference, the members of the Judicial
                      Conference were given copies of the Judicial Conduct and Disability
                      Committee’s report and recommendations, as well as documents from the
                      record of the proceedings before the Fifth Circuit Judicial Council. The report
                      and recommendations included a proposed certification to the House of
                      Representatives that consideration of impeachment may be warranted.

                              At the teleconference, the Chief Justice afforded each member of the
                      Conference the opportunity to comment upon the proposed certification.
                      After discussion and on recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
                      agreed to certify to the House of Representatives, pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
                      § 355(b)(1), the Conference’s determination that consideration of
                      impeachment may be warranted, to transmit to the House of Representatives
                      records of the proceedings, and to adopt and include the following certificate:

                                       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 355(b)(1), the Judicial
                               Conference of the United States certifies to the House of
                               Representatives its determination that consideration of
                               impeachment of United States District Judge G. Thomas
                               Porteous (E.D. La.) may be warranted. This determination is
                               based on evidence provided in the Report by the Special
                               Investigatory Committee to the Judicial Council of the United
                               States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and the Report and
                               Recommendations of the Committee on Judicial Conduct and
                               Disability. Said certification is transmitted with the entire
                               record of the proceeding in the Judicial Council of the Fifth
                               Circuit and in the Judicial Conference of the United States.

                                           The determination is based on substantial evidence that:

                               a.          Judge Porteous repeatedly committed perjury by signing
                                           false financial disclosure forms under oath in violation
                                           of 18 U.S.C. § 1621. This perjury concealed the cash
                                           and things of value that he solicited and received from
                                           lawyers appearing in litigation before him. Parts
                                           F(1)(a), (2)(a), and G of Report of the Committee are
                                           incorporated by reference.



                                                                  4
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                         June 17,2008

                                b.         Judge Porteous repeatedly committed perjury by signing
                                           false statements under oath in a personal bankruptcy
                                           proceeding in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 152(1)-(3),
                                           1621, as well as Canons 1 and 2A of the Code of
                                           Conduct for United States Judges. This perjury allowed
                                           him to obtain a discharge of his debts while continuing
                                           his lifestyle at the expense of his creditors. His
                                           systematic disregard of the bankruptcy court's orders
                                           also implicates 11 U.S.C. § 521(a)(3) and 18 U.S.C.
                                           § 401(1). Parts F(1)(c), (2)(c), and G of the Report of
                                           the Committee are incorporated by reference.

                                c.         Judge Porteous wilfully and systematically concealed
                                           from litigants and the public financial transactions,
                                           including but not limited to those designated in (d), by
                                           filing false financial disclosure forms in violation of
                                           18 U.S.C. § 1001, 5 U.S.C. App. 4 § 104, and Canon
                                           5C(6) of the Code of Conduct for United States Judges,
                                           which require the disclosure of income, gifts, loans, and
                                           liabilities. This conduct made it impossible for litigants
                                           to seek recusal or to challenge his failure to recuse
                                           himself in cases in which lawyers who appeared before
                                           him had given him cash and other things of value and
                                           for the Fifth Circuit Judicial Council and the Judicial
                                           Conference to determine the full extent of his
                                           solicitation and receipt of such cash and things of value.
                                           Parts F(1)(a), (b), (2)(a), (b), and G of the Report of the
                                           Committee are incorporated by reference.

                                d.         Judge Porteous violated several criminal statutes and
                                           ethical canons by presiding over In re: Liljeberg Enters.
                                           Inc. v. Lifemark Hosps. Inc., No. 2:93-cv-01784, rev'd
                                           in part by 304 F.3d 410 (5th Cir. 2002). In that matter,
                                           which was tried without a jury, he denied a motion to
                                           recuse based on his relationship with lawyers in the
                                           case, in violation of 28 U.S.C. § 455 and Canons 3C(1)
                                           and 3D of the Code of Conduct for United States
                                           Judges. In denying the motion, he failed to disclose that
                                           the lawyers in question had often provided him with
                                           cash. Thereafter, while a bench verdict was pending, he
                                           solicited and received from the lawyers appearing
                                           before him illegal gratuities in the form of cash and

                                                                    5
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                        June 17, 2008

                                           other things of value in violation of 18 U.S.C.
                                           § 201(c)(1)(B). This conduct, undertaken in a
                                           concealed manner, deprived the public of its right to his
                                           honest services in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1341, 1343,
                                           and 1346, and constituted an abuse of his judicial office
                                           in violation of Canons 5C(1) and 5C(4) of the Code of
                                           Conduct for United States Judges. Parts F(1)(b), (2)(b),
                                           and G of the Report of the Committee are incorporated
                                           by reference.

                               e.           Judge Porteous made false representations to gain the
                                           extension of a bank loan with the intent to defraud the
                                           bank and causing the bank to incur losses in violation of
                                           18 U.S.C. §§ 1014 and 1344. Parts F(1)(d), (2)(d), and
                                           G of the Report of the Committee are incorporated by
                                           reference.

                               f.          The conduct described in (a) through (e) has
                                           individually and collectively brought disrepute to the
                                           federal judiciary.

                                           Executed this 17th day of June, 2008.

                              Since a certificate under 28 U.S.C. § 354(b)(2)(A) does not
                      automatically conclude or suspend an ongoing misconduct proceeding before
                      a judicial council, on recommendation of the Committee, the Conference also
                      agreed to authorize the Committee to invite the Judicial Council of the Fifth
                      Circuit to make an express decision on whether (a) to continue at this time or
                      suspend proceedings pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 354 regarding sanctions for
                      misconduct by Judge Porteous under the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act;
                      and (b) to direct that, under section 354(a)(2)(A)(i), no further cases be
                      assigned to Judge Porteous for two years or until final action regarding
                      impeachment and removal from office by the Congress, if earlier than two
                      years.




                                                                 Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                 Presiding



                                                                   6
