R EPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE J UDICIAL C ONFERENCE
OF THE U NITED S TATES


March 17, 2009


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on March 17, 2009, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                    First Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                Judge Ernest C. Torres,
                                       District of Rhode Island

                    Second Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs
                                Chief Judge William K. Sessions III,
                                       District of Vermont

                    Third Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Anthony J. Scirica
                                Chief Judge Harvey Bartle III,
                                       Eastern District of Pennsylvania

                    Fourth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Karen J. Williams
                                Chief Judge James P. Jones,
                                       Western District of Virginia

                    Fifth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Edith Hollan Jones
                                Judge Sim Lake,
                                       Southern District of Texas
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            March 17, 2009

                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Danny J. Boggs
                                           Judge Thomas M. Rose,
                                                  Southern District of Ohio

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook
                                           Judge Wayne R. Andersen,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge James B. Loken
                                           Judge Lawrence L. Piersol,
                                                  District of South Dakota

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Judge Sidney R. Thomas1
                                           Judge Charles R. Breyer,
                                                  Northern District of California

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Robert H. Henry
                                           Judge Alan B. Johnson,
                                                  District of Wyoming

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge J. L. Edmondson
                                           Judge Myron H. Thompson,
                                                  Middle District of Alabama




             1
                 Designated by the Chief Justice.

                                                           2
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           March 17, 2009

                       District of Columbia Circuit:

                                    Chief Judge David Bryan Sentelle
                                    Chief Judge Royce C. Lamberth,
                                           District of Columbia

                       Federal Circuit:

                                    Chief Judge Paul R. Michel

                       Court of International Trade:

                                    Chief Judge Jane A. Restani

                      The following Judicial Conference committee chairs attended the Conference
              session: Circuit Judges Bobby R. Baldock, Julia Smith Gibbons, Roger L. Gregory,
              Michael S. Kanne, M. Margaret McKeown, Carl E. Stewart, Richard C. Tallman, and
              John Walker, Jr., and District Judges Joseph F. Bataillon, Julie E. Carnes, Dennis M.
              Cavanaugh, Rosemary M. Collyer, Claire V. Eagan, Janet C. Hall, Robert L. Hinkle,
              D. Brock Hornby, Mark R. Kravitz, Barbara M.G. Lynn, Lee H. Rosenthal, Charles R.
              Simpson III, George Z. Singal, Laura Taylor Swain, and John R. Tunheim.
              Bankruptcy Judge David S. Kennedy and Magistrate Judge Robert B. Collings were
              also in attendance. Karen Greve Milton of the Second Circuit represented the circuit
              executives.

                      James C. Duff, Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
              Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill C. Sayenga, Deputy
              Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General Counsel; Laura C.
              Minor, Assistant Director, and Wendy Jennis, Deputy Assistant Director, Judicial
              Conference Executive Secretariat; Cordia A. Strom, Assistant Director, Legislative
              Affairs; and David A. Sellers, Assistant Director, Public Affairs. District Judge
              Barbara Jacobs Rothstein and John S. Cooke, Director and Deputy Director of the
              Federal Judicial Center, and District Judge Ricardo H. Hinojosa and Judith W. Sheon,
              Chair and Staff Director of the United States Sentencing Commission, were in
              attendance at the session of the Conference, as was Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to
              the Chief Justice. Scott Harris, Supreme Court Counsel, and the 2008-2009 Supreme
              Court Fellows also observed the Conference proceedings.

                      Attorney General Eric Holder addressed the Conference on matters of mutual
              interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice. Senators Patrick Leahy, Arlen
              Specter, and Jeff Sessions and Representatives Lamar S. Smith, Henry C. Johnson,


                                                          3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 17, 2009

             Jr., and Howard Coble spoke on matters pending in Congress of interest to the
             Conference.


             R EPORTS
                              Mr. Duff reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                      courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge
                      Rothstein spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC)
                      programs, and Judge Hinojosa reported on Sentencing Commission activities.
                      Judge Julia Smith Gibbons, Chair of the Committee on the Budget, presented
                      a report on judiciary appropriations and other budget matters.


             E XECUTIVE C OMMITTEE

                      CONFERENCE-APPROVED LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS

                              At the beginning of each biennial Congress, the committees of the
                      Judicial Conference are asked to review all of the Conference-endorsed
                      legislative proposals within their respective jurisdictions that have not been
                      enacted to determine whether the judiciary should pursue or defer action on
                      those proposals in the new Congress. At its February 2009 meeting, the
                      Executive Committee reviewed the one outstanding legislative proposal
                      within its own jurisdiction: establishment of a Judicial Conference
                      Foundation to receive and expend private contributions in support of official
                      programs (JCUS-MAR 95, p. 6). The Committee determined that there were
                      existing mechanisms for accepting contributions to benefit the federal judicial
                      system and there appeared to be no reason at this time for the Judicial
                      Conference to have a separate foundation. On recommendation of the
                      Committee, the Conference rescinded its March 1995 decision to pursue
                      legislation to create such a foundation.

                              The Executive Committee also reviewed the determinations of other
                      committees as to which legislative proposals within their jurisdictions should
                      be pursued or deferred in the 111th Congress and decided to ask the Court
                      Administration and Case Management Committee to revisit that committee’s
                      decision that the judiciary not pursue at this time a $10 increase in the daily
                      juror attendance fee, which has not been raised since 1990.




                                                             4
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 17, 2009



                       BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                               Vacancies. In accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(3), the Judicial
                       Conference conducts a biennial review of all judicial districts to assess the
                       continuing need for authorized bankruptcy judgeships. By December 31 of
                       each even-numbered year, the Conference must report to Congress whether
                       any authorized bankruptcy judgeship position should be eliminated when a
                       vacancy exists by reason of resignation, retirement, removal or death. Based
                       on the results of the 2008 biennial review, the Committee on the
                       Administration of the Bankruptcy System recommended that the Judicial
                       Conference (a) recommend to Congress that no statutorily approved
                       bankruptcy judgeship be eliminated; and (b) advise the Second, Third, Eighth,
                       and Ninth Circuit Judicial Councils, as appropriate, that they not fill
                       bankruptcy judgeship vacancies in the Districts of New York (Eastern),
                       Pennsylvania (Eastern), South Dakota, Iowa (Northern), Alaska, California
                       (Northern), California (Central), and Oregon that may occur because of death,
                       resignation, retirement, or removal, unless there is a demonstrated need to do
                       so, particularly if the weighted caseload per authorized judgeship, calculated
                       without such vacant judgeship, is less than 1,000 weighted filings per
                       judgeship. In order to meet the statutory deadline for 2008, the Executive
                       Committee agreed to act on an expedited basis on behalf of the Conference to
                       approve the Bankruptcy Committee’s recommendations.

                                Additional Judgeships. The Judicial Conference also conducts a
                       biennial survey to evaluate requests for additional bankruptcy judgeships and
                       transmits its recommendations to Congress, which establishes the number of
                       bankruptcy judgeships in each judicial district (28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(2)).
                       Having completed the 2008 biennial survey in all but a handful of courts, the
                       Bankruptcy Committee asked the Executive Committee to act on behalf of the
                       Conference on an expedited basis to approve and transmit recommendations
                       for additional bankruptcy judgeships to Congress. The Bankruptcy Committee
                       recommended, and the Executive Committee approved, seeking legislation to
                       (a) convert 22 existing temporary bankruptcy judgeships to permanent status
                       and extend the time period for one temporary judgeship for an additional five
                       years, and (b) authorize nine additional bankruptcy judgeships in the following
                       districts (the numbers in parentheses are the number of judgeships
                       recommended): Eastern and Western Districts of Arkansas (1), Middle
                       District of Florida (1), Northern District of Georgia (2), Eastern District of
                       Michigan (3), Northern District of Mississippi (1), and District of Nevada (1).



                                                             5
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 17, 2009



                      MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                               The Executive Committee —

                      •        Approved on behalf of the Conference a recommendation of the Court
                               Administration and Case Management Committee to extend a pilot
                               program on electronic access to digital audio recordings by one year,
                               through December 2009, so that data from up to five additional courts
                               could be included;

                      •        On recommendation of the Committee on Rules of Practice and
                               Procedure, approved on behalf of the Conference two items to take
                               effect on December 19, 2008 to implement the National Guard and
                               Reservists Debt Relief Act of 2008, Pub. L. No. 110-438: (a) revisions
                               to Official Bankruptcy Form 22A and (b) distribution to the district
                               courts of proposed Interim Bankruptcy Rule 1007-I, with a
                               recommendation that it be adopted through a local rule or standing
                               order;

                      •        Approved technical adjustments to the fiscal year 2010 budget request;

                      •        Approved final fiscal year 2009 financial plans for the Salaries and
                               Expenses, Defender Services, Court Security, and Fees of Jurors and
                               Commissioners accounts;

                      •        On recommendation of the Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction
                               and on behalf of the Conference, approved a resolution
                               commemorating the 60th anniversary of the Conference of Chief
                               Justices (CCJ) so that the resolution could be presented to the CCJ at
                               its midyear meeting in January 2009;

                      •        On recommendation of the Space and Facilities Committee, approved
                               on behalf of the Conference a request from the Judicial Council of the
                               District of Columbia Circuit for circuit rent budget Component B
                               funding for replacement of existing building systems in the E. Barrett
                               Prettyman Courthouse so that funding for the courthouse renovations
                               project could be included in the General Services Administration
                               Capital Construction Program for fiscal year 2011;

                      •        In light of an increased weighted caseload in the Eastern District of
                               Louisiana, agreed on behalf of the Conference and at the

                                                               6
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 17, 2009

                                recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Resources to rescind
                                the Conference’s March 2007 recommendation (JCUS-MAR 07,
                                pp. 22-23) that a judgeship vacancy in that district not be filled;

                       •        On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
                                Magistrate Judges System and on behalf of the Conference, authorized
                                the addition of two full-time magistrate judge positions, one each for
                                the Southern and Western Districts of Texas, and the conversion from
                                part-time to full-time status of a magistrate judge position in the
                                Northern District of California, along with accelerated funding for
                                these positions, to address urgent needs in those districts;

                       •        Approved several modifications to the sections of The Judicial
                                Conference of the United States and its Committees addressing the use
                                by Judicial Conference committees of subcommittees and approved a
                                guide on the use of subcommittees for distribution to Conference
                                committee chairs; and

                       •        Approved on behalf of the Conference a resolution commemorating
                                the fiftieth anniversary of the Judicial Conference’s Committee on the
                                Budget.


              C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATIVE O FFICE

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Administrative Office reported that it reviewed
                       and expressed support for various internal control and audit-related activities,
                       including successful follow-up actions to address audit findings and plans to
                       increase the frequency of audits of national accounts and programs if
                       sufficient funding is available. In addition, it discussed a proposed strategic
                       direction for the AO and ways the Committee could assist the AO in achieving
                       its objectives. The Committee also proposed actions regarding wiretap
                       reporting requirements.




                                                               7
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 17, 2009


             C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
             OF THE B ANKRUPTCY S YSTEM

                      BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATOR PROGRAM

                               Pursuant to statute, the Judicial Conference established bankruptcy
                      administrators in the six judicial districts in Alabama and North Carolina as
                      independent, non-judicial officers within the judicial branch to perform
                      essentially the same trustee and estate administration oversight tasks as those
                      performed by United States trustees in all other districts. There are some
                      duties bankruptcy administrators cannot perform, however, because they do
                      not have the same statutory authority as the United States trustees. To address
                      this discrepancy, in March 1995, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek
                      legislation that would authorize bankruptcy administrators to appoint trustees,
                      examiners, and committees; fix compensation and percentage fees for standing
                      trustees; and serve as trustees, when necessary (JCUS-MAR 95, pp. 11-12).
                      The Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 has
                      since granted additional duties and powers to the United States trustees, not all
                      of which were also granted to bankruptcy administrators. At this session, the
                      Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System recommended
                      that, along with the authorities already being pursued, the Judicial Conference
                      seek legislation that would authorize, as appropriate, the additional duties and
                      powers for bankruptcy administrators conferred on the United States trustees
                      in the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005.
                      The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                      OFFICIAL DUTY STATION

                              On the recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee and in
                      accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(1), the Judicial Conference approved a
                      request from the First Circuit Judicial Council to redesignate the official duty
                      station of Chief Bankruptcy Judge Henry J. Boroff from Worcester to
                      Springfield in the District of Massachusetts and to delete Springfield as an
                      additional place of holding court in that district.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                      reported that it asked the Executive Committee to take emergency action on

                                                              8
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 17, 2009

                       behalf of the Judicial Conference to seek legislation regarding additional
                       bankruptcy judgeships (see supra “Bankruptcy Judgeships,” p. 5). In addition,
                       the Bankruptcy Committee recommended to the Committee on the Judicial
                       Branch that legislation be sought to amend the Article III judges’ retirement
                       program to allow credit for up to five years service as a magistrate judge or
                       bankruptcy judge to meet the retirement program’s age and service
                       requirements (see also “Committee Activities,” p. 31). The Committee also
                       received updates on the work of its subcommittees on automation, estate
                       administration, and long-range planning and status reports on the activities of
                       the Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules, the Administrative Office’s
                       Bankruptcy Judges Advisory Group, and the Federal Judicial Center.


              C OMMITTEE ON THE B UDGET

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Budget reported that it continues to be
                       concerned about the long-term financial health of the judiciary and spent
                       considerable time discussing internal and external actions that will impact
                       future budgets. The Committee plans to begin consideration of revisions to
                       the Salaries and Expenses budget cap at its July 2009 meeting, given the
                       changed fiscal climate, and will continue to encourage the program
                       committees of the Judicial Conference to examine ways to contain costs.
                       Other items that were discussed included the defender services budget, a
                       proposed tenant alterations allotment formula, and the judiciary's long-range
                       planning process.


              C OMMITTEE ON C ODES OF C ONDUCT

                       CODE OF CONDUCT FOR UNITED STATES JUDGES

                               On recommendation of the Committee on Codes of Conduct, the
                       Judicial Conference adopted a revised Code of Conduct for United States
                       Judges, to be effective July 1, 2009. The revisions are intended to
                       significantly improve and update the ethical guidance contained in the Code.




                                                              9
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 17, 2009



                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                      to the Judicial Conference in September 2008, the Committee received 44
                      new written inquiries and issued 40 written advisory responses. During this
                      period, the average response time for requests was 16 days. In addition, the
                      Committee chair received and responded to 93 informal inquiries from
                      colleagues, and individual Committee members responded to 160 such
                      inquiries.


             C OMMITTEE ON C OURT A DMINISTRATION
             AND C ASE M ANAGEMENT

                      USE OF INTERNET MATERIALS IN OPINIONS

                              Concerned that internet-based materials cited in judicial opinions
                      could easily be changed or lost if not preserved, and that hyperlinks to
                      commercial databases in opinions might create an appearance of preference
                      for a particular service provider, the Committee on Court Administration and
                      Case Management recommended that the Conference approve suggested
                      practices for courts on the use of internet citations in judicial opinions. On
                      recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the
                      following:

                      a.       That all internet materials cited in final opinions be considered for
                               preservation. Each judge, however, should retain the discretion to
                               decide whether the specific cited resource should be captured and
                               preserved.

                      b.       That the Administrative Office work with the Committee on Court
                               Administration and Case Management to develop guidelines to assist
                               judges in making the determination of which citations to preserve. The
                               guidelines will discuss considerations for citation to internet resources,
                               criteria for evaluating whether to capture cited internet resources, the
                               process of capturing and maintaining cited internet resources, and the
                               use of hyperlinks to commercial databases in final opinions.

                      c.       That chambers staff be involved in the process of preserving internet
                               resources. This will ensure that cited internet resources are captured

                                                              10
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 17, 2009

                                and preserved at the time they are viewed and relied upon by the judge.
                                While each chambers should determine the best method of adjusting
                                its workflow to allow it to efficiently preserve the information it deems
                                important, the suggested guidelines regarding the process of capturing
                                and maintaining internet materials should be used to assist them in this
                                process.

                       d.       That cited and preserved internet resources be made available on a
                                non-fee basis, as is done with final opinions in PACER and on court
                                websites.

                       e.       That the judiciary avoid including in final opinions working hyperlinks
                                that lead directly to materials contained within commercial vendor
                                databases to prevent a stated or implied endorsement or preferential
                                treatment. To the extent that a court determines that such hyperlinks
                                are to be used in opinions, it is recommended that an appropriate
                                disclaimer be provided.


                       SEALED CASES

                               In order to provide the public with information regarding the existence
                       of sealed district court cases, the Committee recommended that the
                       Conference approve the inclusion, on CM/ECF-generated reports of cases, of
                       the case number and generic name (e.g., “Sealed versus Sealed”) for each
                       sealed case, and that individual courts determine the additional information
                       about sealed cases (such as initials of the assigned judge, date of filing, or
                       number of days the case has been pending) that should be made available to
                       the public. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       TRANSCRIPTS OF VOIR DIRE PROCEEDINGS

                               Noting that transcripts of voir dire proceedings often include personal,
                       sensitive, or even embarrassing information, the Committee recommended
                       that the Conference adopt guidance to the courts, to be used in both civil and
                       criminal cases, on how information is elicited from prospective jurors during
                       voir dire, when a voir dire transcript should be created, and if created, what
                       kind of public access to the transcript should be provided. The Committee
                       recommended that the guidance should —



                                                               11
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                    March 17, 2009

                      a.       Ask courts to examine the manner in which they conduct voir dire
                               proceedings in civil and criminal cases, and suggest that judges
                               (1) inform jurors that they have the right to approach the bench to
                               share personal information in an on-the-record in camera conference
                               with the attorneys; and (2) make efforts to limit references on the
                               record to potential jurors’ names by assigning and using numbers for
                               each juror;

                      b.       Remind courts of the existing judiciary policy that voir dire transcripts
                               not be created unless specifically requested (Guide to Judiciary
                               Policies and Procedures, Volume 6, Chapter 17, Section 17.5.3.a);

                      c.       Ask judges to balance, once a transcript is created, the right to public
                               access to transcripts with the jurors’ right to privacy – consistent with
                               applicable circuit case law – and, only if appropriate, to seal the
                               transcript; and

                      d.       Suggest that when sealing, judges consider whether to seal (1) the
                               transcripts of the entire voir dire proceeding, which would be docketed
                               separately from the rest of the trial transcript; or (2) the transcripts of
                               the bench conferences with potential jurors, docketed separately from
                               the rest of the transcripts of voir dire. The guidance should inform the
                               courts, however, that this last option would require additional work for
                               court reporters in creating and docketing a separate transcript of the
                               bench conferences held during voir dire.

                      The Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                      RECORDS DISPOSITION SCHEDULES

                              Disposition of court records is controlled by records disposition
                      schedules established jointly by the Judicial Conference and the National
                      Archives and Records Administration (NARA) (28 U.S.C. § 457). As part of
                      the judiciary’s cost-containment initiative, the Committee on Court
                      Administration and Case Management undertook a review of the records
                      disposition schedules to determine how to reduce the fees the judiciary pays to
                      NARA for storing records at regional Federal Records Centers (FRCs), which
                      are interim storage facilities. Under current records disposition schedules,
                      closed case files are generally held between 20 and 40 years at FRCs before
                      they are either destroyed (if they are classified as temporary) or transferred to
                      the National Archives (if they are classified as permanent), where no fees are

                                                               12
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 17, 2009

                       charged. Based on its review, and after receiving input from the
                       Administrative Offices’s appellate, bankruptcy and district clerks advisory
                       groups, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference take the
                       following actions to reduce or avoid storage time at the FRCs:

                       a.       Approve revisions to the records disposition schedules (to be endorsed
                                by NARA) to provide that —

                                (1)        courts of appeals permanent records be stored at the courthouse
                                           for up to one year after the case mandate has issued, or longer,
                                           as space permits, and then be transferred to the National
                                           Archives, bypassing storage time at the FRCs;

                                (2)        temporary bankruptcy court records that currently have a 20-
                                           year FRC retention period be destroyed 15 years after case
                                           closing;

                                (3)        bankruptcy court permanent records be stored at the courthouse
                                           for up to one year, or longer, as space permits, and then
                                           transferred to the National Archives, bypassing storage time at
                                           the FRCs;

                                (4)        district court temporary records be destroyed 15 years after case
                                           closing; and

                                (5)        district court permanent records be stored at the courthouse for
                                           up to one year, or longer, as space permits, and then transferred
                                           to the FRC, with transfer to the National Archives 15 years
                                           after case closing; and

                       b.       Through the Administrative Office, initiate action, as soon as these
                                recommended changes have been approved, to apply the new
                                disposition schedules to both permanent records currently at the FRCs,
                                moving them to the National Archives, and temporary records
                                currently stored at the FRCs.

                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.




                                                                  13
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                     March 17, 2009



                      ATTORNEY ADMISSIONS

                              On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference approved a
                      policy requiring all courts to adopt the following two safeguards for verifying
                      bar admission of attorneys seeking to be admitted to the court:

                      a.       An admission form that gathers sufficient information to allow the
                               court to verify the state bar admission status of an applicant; and

                      b.       A procedure for verifying that the information on the forms is correct.


                      COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS MISCELLANEOUS
                      FEE SCHEDULE

                             The Conference adopted a recommendation of the Committee to
                      amend the Miscellaneous Fee Schedule for the Court of Federal Claims to
                      include a fee of $26 for the reproduction and sale of digital audio recordings.
                      Such a fee is already included in the fee schedules for the appellate, district,
                      and bankruptcy courts. The following paragraph will be added to the Court’s
                      fee schedule:

                               (9)         For reproduction of an audio recording of a court
                                           proceeding, $26. This fee applies to services rendered
                                           on behalf of the United States, if the recording is
                                           available electronically.


                      COURTROOM SHARING

                              In September 2008, the Judicial Conference directed the Court
                      Administration and Case Management Committee, in consultation with the
                      Committee on Space and Facilities, to develop appropriate regulations for the
                      U.S. Courts Design Guide regarding the assignment of courtrooms for senior
                      judges to reflect a policy that provides one courtroom for every two senior
                      judges, but that includes a standard, objective, and narrowly tailored
                      exemption policy for some senior judges with high caseloads (JCUS-SEP 08,
                      p. 10). At this session, with the concurrence of the Space and Facilities
                      Committee, the Court Administration and Case Management Committee



                                                                  14
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 17, 2009

                       recommended, and the Conference adopted, the following courtroom sharing
                       policy for senior judges:

                                          SHARING POLICY FOR SENIOR JUDGES IN
                                     NEW COURTHOUSE AND COURTROOM CONSTRUCTION

                                        In 2008, the Judicial Conference revised its courtroom
                                allocation planning assumptions for senior judges. The policy
                                provides one courtroom for every two senior district judges in
                                new courtroom construction projects. In the event this sharing
                                arrangement would cause substantial difficulty in the effective
                                and efficient disposition of cases, however, a court, as a whole,
                                with the approval of its circuit judicial council, may seek an
                                individual exemption to this sharing policy from the Judicial
                                Conference’s Space and Facilities Committee. Such
                                exemptions should be considered the exception and not the
                                rule.

                                To be considered for an exemption, a court must first show a
                                per-active-judge caseload that, absent special circumstances,
                                meets, if not exceeds, the standard established by the Judicial
                                Conference for the consideration of the creation of a new
                                judgeship.* Thereafter, a court should demonstrate that
                                deviation from the basic sharing policy of one courtroom for
                                two senior judges is necessary, based on the following:

                                a.         An assessment of the number and type of courtroom
                                           events anticipated to be handled by the senior judge that
                                           would indicate that sharing a courtroom would pose a
                                           significant burden on the effective and efficient
                                           management of that judge’s docket.

                                b.         The estimated number of years the senior judge for
                                           whom an exemption is sought would need a courtroom
                                           after taking senior status, along with a description of
                                           how the district has historically utilized senior judges.

                                c.         An assessment of the current complement of
                                           courtrooms and their projected use in the facility and
                                           throughout the district, to reaffirm the necessity of
                                           constructing an additional courtroom.


                                                                  15
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                      March 17, 2009

                               d.          Whether a special proceedings, visiting judge, or other
                                           courtroom is available for the senior judge’s use in the
                                           new or existing facility.

                               * This standard is currently 430 weighted filings per
                               authorized district judgeship assuming the addition of a
                               judgeship. In courts with fewer than five authorized
                               judgeships, the standard is 500 weighted filings per existing
                               authorized district judgeship.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                      reported that it considered the future of electronic case management systems
                      in bankruptcy and district courts and indicated its strong support for the
                      development of new systems. It also considered a number of issues relating to
                      case management, including assistance to congested courts, streamlining case
                      management procedures in capital habeas corpus cases, multidistrict litigation
                      case management, and Civil Justice Reform Act report modifications. In
                      addition, the Committee discussed the increased number of cases with national
                      security-related issues in the federal courts and will work with the Department
                      of Justice, as well as judges who have handled these cases, to develop case
                      management guidance for the courts.


             C OMMITTEE ON C RIMINAL L AW

                      STACKING OF FIREARMS COUNTS

                              Section 924(c) of title 18, United States Code, provides for additional
                      mandatory minimum penalties of 5 to10 years for the use or carrying of a
                      firearm during the commission of a crime of violence or a drug trafficking
                      offense (and 10 to 30 years for certain types of firearms). It also provides for
                      an enhanced penalty of 25 years, or even life imprisonment in some
                      circumstances, for a second or subsequent conviction under the same section.
                      However, the statute does not specify whether the enhanced penalty is
                      triggered by conviction of a second count in the same indictment (i.e., stacking
                      of counts), or only if the prior conviction preceded commission of the second
                      offense, as is true for some statutes. In the case of Deal v. United States, 508
                      U.S. 129 (1993), the Supreme Court determined that two § 924(c) counts in


                                                                  16
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 17, 2009

                       one indictment can trigger the second or subsequent conviction portion of the
                       statute, resulting in a substantially longer sentence. In light of the
                       Conference’s long-standing position that mandatory minimum sentences can
                       produce results contrary to the interests of justice, and that stacking counts
                       compounds that risk, the Committee on Criminal Law recommended that the
                       Conference seek an amendment to 18 U.S.C. § 924(c) to preclude the stacking
                       of counts and make clear that additional penalties apply only when, prior to
                       the commission of such offense, one or more convictions of such person have
                       become final. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it endorsed the use of
                       biometric authentication technology (i.e., fingerprint readers) for automated
                       kiosks at which standardized data will be collected from defendants and
                       offenders reporting to their probation or pretrial services officers. The
                       Committee also discussed the status of guidelines to assist chief probation and
                       pretrial services officers who wish to contract or expend funds for certain
                       reentry services as authorized by the Second Chance Act of 2007 (Pub. L.
                       No. 110-199) and the Judicial Administration and Technical Amendments Act
                       of 2008 (Pub. L. No. 110-406). In addition, the Committee was briefed on the
                       results of a Federal Judicial Center study of reentry programs within the
                       federal judiciary, and considered the relationship between reentry programs
                       and evidence-based practices.


              C OMMITTEE ON D EFENDER S ERVICES

                       CASE COMPENSATION MAXIMUMS FOR
                       SERVICE PROVIDERS OTHER THAN COUNSEL

                               In March 1993, the Judicial Conference approved seeking legislation
                       that would authorize the Conference to set case compensation maximums for
                       Criminal Justice Act (CJA) panel attorneys and investigative, expert, and other
                       service providers (JCUS-MAR 93, p. 27). In March 1995, the Conference
                       reaffirmed its support for this position but also authorized seeking alternative
                       legislative options for securing periodic adjustments of case maximums,
                       including legislation authorizing the Conference to make immediate and
                       periodic adjustments to the statutory maximums in proportion to CJA attorney
                       compensation rate increases (JCUS-MAR 95, pp. 18-19). At this session, the


                                                             17
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 17, 2009

                      Committee recommended that the March 1995 position be revised to expand
                      the options for measures by which case maximums for service providers other
                      than counsel may be calculated. The Conference agreed to revise the position
                      to state that immediate and automatic adjustments to the service provider
                      maximums can be made by reference to measures such as increases to the
                      attorney compensation rates, cumulative Employment Cost Index adjustments,
                      or similar objective standard.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Defender Services reported that it received a status
                      report on the efforts of an ad hoc working group (which includes a liaison
                      from the Committee) to address issues related to the housing of pretrial
                      detainees in facilities located at significant distances from courthouses. In
                      addition, in order to more effectively address workload associated with
                      automated litigation support for federal defender organizations and Criminal
                      Justice Act panel attorneys, the Committee authorized (subject to the
                      availability of funding) the creation of two positions to supplement the efforts
                      of the program's national litigation support administrator. The Committee also
                      considered Defender Services-related legislative initiatives that it believes the
                      judiciary should pursue in the 111th Congress.


             C OMMITTEE ON F EDERAL -S TATE J URISDICTION

                      JURISDICTIONAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT

                              In September 2003, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek legislation
                      amending 28 U.S.C. § 1446(a) to replace the specific reference to Rule 11 of
                      the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure with a generic reference to the rules
                      governing pleadings and motions in civil actions in federal courts to avoid
                      confusion should the numerical order of the rules ever be changed (JCUS-SEP
                      03, pp. 22-23). Noting that the recent restyling of the Civil Rules maintained
                      the continuity of the numbers and that future revisions would likely respect the
                      integrity of the numbering as well, the Committee recommended that the
                      Conference rescind this position, and the Conference agreed.




                                                             18
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 17, 2009



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it received a
                       briefing from the Federal Judicial Center regarding prisoner litigation and
                       discussed legislation introduced in the 110th Congress that would have
                       amended provisions of the Prison Litigation Reform Act. The Committee also
                       discussed ways the federal and state courts could improve coordination
                       between the two court systems related to capital habeas corpus litigation. The
                       Committee continued its discussion of efforts to begin a dialogue with local
                       state-federal judicial councils to share information on issues of mutual
                       interest. The Committee also discussed comments on the draft Federal Courts
                       Jurisdiction and Venue Clarification Act that had been received from legal
                       organizations and law professors.


              C OMMITTEE ON F INANCIAL D ISCLOSURE

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that it continues to
                       enhance the financial disclosure report (FDR) software, and currently is
                       overseeing development of a system for electronic filing and records
                       management of financial disclosure reports. Analysis of the calendar year
                       2007 financial disclosure reports reflects that use of the new self-audit
                       function in the FDR software improved the quality of the reports and reduced
                       the volume of correspondence between the Committee and filers. As of
                       January 5, 2009, the Committee had received 4,348 financial disclosure
                       reports and certifications for calendar year 2007, including 1,329 reports and
                       certifications from Supreme Court justices, Article III judges, and judicial
                       officers of special courts; 366 reports from bankruptcy judges; 572 reports
                       from magistrate judges; and 2,081 from judicial employees.


               C OMMITTEE ON INFORMATION T ECHNOLOGY

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Information Technology reported that it received
                       information regarding, and expressed support for, plans to develop the next
                       generation of the Case Management/Electronic Case Files (CM/ECF) systems

                                                             19
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 17, 2009

                      and urged that this initiative, as well as improvements to various public access
                      systems, and continued courtroom technology allotments be kept in mind as
                      future budget requests are developed. With respect to the Edwin L. Nelson
                      Local Initiatives Program, the Committee made decisions on fiscal year 2009
                      grants, and discussed ongoing efforts to redesign the Ed’s Place website so
                      that judges, judicial assistants, clerks, and other non-technical staff could
                      obtain information more easily on locally developed applications that meet
                      their needs. The Committee also reviewed a draft set of guidelines that could
                      serve as a basis for facilitating a more collaborative approach to shared
                      application development and support in the judiciary, and discussed potential
                      projects that could be used to test the concept.


            C OMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT A SSIGNMENTS

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 97
                      intercircuit assignments were undertaken by 71 Article III judges from July 1,
                      2008 to December 31, 2008. During the full calendar year 2008, 176
                      intercircuit assignments were processed by the Committee and approved by
                      the Chief Justice. To increase awareness and facilitate the use of visiting
                      judges, the Committee continued to disseminate information about intercircuit
                      assignments and aided courts requesting assistance by identifying and
                      obtaining judges willing to take assignments.


             C OMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL J UDICIAL R ELATIONS

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                      involvement in rule of law and judicial reform activities throughout the world.
                      The Committee also discussed its continued participation in the rule of law
                      component of the Library of Congress’ Open World Program for jurists from
                      Russia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Tajikistan and
                      Turkmenistan. In addition, the Committee reported on hosting foreign
                      delegations of jurists and judicial personnel in relation to briefings at the
                      Administrative Office of the United States Courts, activities with agencies in
                      the executive branch, and other rule of law programs taking place in the
                      United States.

                                                            20
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 17, 2009


              C OMMITTEE ON THE J UDICIAL B RANCH

                       JUDGES’ TRAVEL REGULATIONS

                               On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
                       Judicial Conference amended sections H.2.b. and H.2.c. of the Travel
                       Regulations for United States Justices and Judges to clarify the circumstances
                       under which judges are eligible for evacuation, safe haven, and other special
                       allowances.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it continues to
                       give high priority to securing automatic and annual cost-of-living salary
                       adjustments for judges. The Committee also continues to devote considerable
                       attention to benefits matters and to examining ways of improving
                       communications with the political branches. In addition, the Committee
                       continues to monitor the implementation of the Judicial Conference policy on
                       privately reimbursed seminars.


              C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL C ONDUCT AND D ISABILITY

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that it has
                       chosen a methodology, and is now finalizing a plan, for screening of
                       complaint-related orders to systematize its review of activity under the
                       Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-364. Furthermore,
                       under the Committee’s direction, two data-management measures,
                       necessitated by last year’s adoption of Rules for Judicial-Conduct and
                       Judicial-Disability Proceedings, have been implemented: an electronic
                       repository of the complaint-related documents that courts must now submit
                       and new software for reporting statistics on complaints under the Act. The
                       Committee continues to monitor action on Breyer Committee
                       recommendations, oversee the preparation of various informational products,
                       arrange for informational presentations to be given at programs for judges, and
                       consider issues and inquiries regarding the Judicial Conduct and Disability
                       Act and the Rules.


                                                             21
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 17, 2009


             C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL R ESOURCES

                      ADDITIONAL ARTICLE III JUDGESHIPS

                              Additional Judgeships. The Committee on Judicial Resources
                      considered requests and justifications for additional judgeships in the courts of
                      appeals and the district courts as part of its 2009 biennial judgeship survey
                      process. Based on its review, and after considering the views of the courts and
                      the circuit councils, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference
                      authorize transmittal to Congress of the following request: for the courts of
                      appeals, the addition of nine permanent and three temporary judgeships, and
                      for the district courts, the addition of 38 permanent and 13 temporary
                      judgeships plus conversion to permanent status of five existing temporary
                      judgeships and extension of one existing temporary judgeship for an
                      additional five years. After discussion, the Conference adopted the
                      Committee’s recommendations, agreeing to transmit the following request to
                      Congress (“P” denotes permanent; “T” denotes temporary; “T/P” denotes
                      conversion of temporary to permanent; “T/E” denotes extension of
                      temporary):

                               COURTS OF APPEALS

                               First Circuit                1P
                               Second Circuit               2P
                               Third Circuit                1P, 1T
                               Sixth Circuit                1P
                               Eighth Circuit               1T
                               Ninth Circuit                4P, 1T

                               DISTRICT COURTS

                               New York (Eastern)           1P, 1T
                               New York (Southern)          1P, 1T
                               New York (Western)           1P
                               New Jersey                   1P
                               South Carolina               1P
                               Virginia (Eastern)           1T
                               Texas (Eastern)              1P, 1 T/P
                               Texas (Southern)             2P
                               Texas (Western)              4P
                               Ohio (Northern)              1T/E
                               Indiana (Southern)           1P

                                                             22
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 17, 2009

                                Iowa (Northern)               1T
                                Minnesota                     1P, 1T
                                Missouri (Eastern)            1T/P
                                Nebraska                      1T
                                Arizona                       1P, 1T, 1T/P
                                California (Northern)         4P, 1T
                                California (Eastern)          4P, 1T
                                California (Central)          4P, 1T
                                Idaho                         1T
                                Oregon                        1P
                                Washington (Western)          1P
                                Colorado                      1P
                                Kansas*                       1T/P
                                New Mexico                    1P, 1T/P
                                Alabama (Middle)              1T
                                Florida (Middle)              4P, 1T
                                Florida (Southern)            3P

                                * If the temporary judgeship lapses before it is converted,
                                Congress would be asked for one additional permanent
                                judgeship.

                               Judgeship Vacancies. As part of the biennial survey of judgeship
                       needs, workloads in district and appellate courts with low weighted caseloads
                       are reviewed for the purpose of determining whether to recommend to the
                       President and Senate that an existing or future judgeship vacancy not be filled.
                       On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to advise the
                       President and the Senate that the existing judgeship vacancy in the District of
                       Wyoming and the next judgeship vacancy occurring in the District of
                       Massachusetts not be filled based on the consistently low weighted caseloads
                       in these districts.


                       JUDICIARY SALARY PLAN
                       INITIAL PAY SETTING

                               The initial pay-setting rules for Court Personnel System (CPS)
                       employees permit a court to set pay at any step within the full performance
                       range of the appropriate classification level, at the discretion of the court,
                       when an applicant has unusually high or unique qualifications and/or because
                       of a special need of the court for the applicant’s services. This flexibility can
                       be applied to all candidates except for applicants from the federal judiciary,

                                                               23
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 17, 2009

                      who qualify only after a 90-day break in service. The initial pay-setting rules
                      for non-chambers Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) employees2 and federal public
                      defender organization graded positions are more complicated and place more
                      constraints on the discretion of the court. On recommendation of the
                      Committee, the Judicial Conference approved applying the CPS rules for
                      initial pay setting, including the 90-day-break-in-service rule for federal
                      judiciary applicants, to non-chambers JSP positions (excluding pro se, death
                      penalty, and bankruptcy appellate panel law clerks) and graded federal
                      defender organization employees, in lieu of the current salary matching rules.
                      Pro se, death penalty, and bankruptcy appellate panel law clerks will continue
                      to be subject to the current JSP salary matching rules.


                      LAW CLERK QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS

                              The current qualification standard for a law clerk to a federal judge
                      permits granting credit for the time spent in a bar examination preparatory
                      course, up to a maximum of six weeks, toward the one year of legal work
                      experience that is needed to qualify for the JSP-12 grade level. Noting that a
                      law clerk who successfully passes the bar examination through independent
                      preparation is penalized and that there is no clear rationale for considering bar
                      preparation as creditable experience in the practice of law, the Committee
                      recommended that the Conference discontinue the practice of counting time
                      spent in a bar examination preparatory course toward the legal work
                      experience requirement for the JSP-12 grade level for law clerks. The
                      Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation, to go into effect on
                      August 31, 2009.


                      UNIT EXECUTIVE/DEPUTY DESIGNEE POSITION

                             In order to provide for overlap between incoming and outgoing unit
                      executives and Type II deputies and thereby support the orderly transition of
                      responsibilities, the Judicial Conference adopted a recommendation of the
                      Committee to establish designee positions in the JSP subject to the following
                      conditions:




             2
              These employees include unit executives, Type II deputies, court staff law clerks, and
             court interpreters.

                                                             24
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 17, 2009

                       a.       A designee position may be utilized for the selectee for either a unit
                                executive or a Type II deputy position;

                       b.       A designee position is not applicable to, or available for, candidates
                                who are being promoted within their current court units;

                       c.       A designee position should be established using decentralized funds.
                                However, a unit may request supplemental funding for a period of up
                                to 30 days for a designee position, if local funds are unavailable to
                                fund the full period desired; and

                       d.       A designee position may be established for a maximum period of
                                three months regardless of the source of funding.


                       EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES

                               In September 2007, the Judicial Conference amended the judiciary
                       policy on step increases for CPS employees from one based primarily on
                       longevity to one that, beginning October 2010, will permit step increases to be
                       granted at the discretion of the supervisor (JCUS-SEP 07, p. 25). Noting that
                       5 U.S.C. § 3110(b) prohibits a public official from advancing or advocating a
                       relative for advancement, the Committee recommended that the Conference
                       also amend its policy regarding employment of relatives in courts and federal
                       public defender organizations to provide the following with regard to CPS
                       positions:

                       a.       Unit executives, managers, and supervisors may not approve a
                                discretionary step increase or render a performance evaluation for any
                                employee who is a relative of that unit executive, manager, or
                                supervisor (applying the definition of "relative" in 5 U.S.C.
                                § 3110(a)(3)); and

                       b.       For any prospective employment or organizational changes or actions,
                                courts may not place or retain an employee in a position within the
                                supervisory chain of a supervisor, manager, or unit executive who is a
                                relative of the employee.

                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.




                                                               25
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 17, 2009



                      RETIRED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
                      RE-EMPLOYMENT

                               Under Judicial Conference policy, a retired law enforcement officer
                      may be appointed as a re-employed annuitant for a period of up to 18 months
                      when it is clearly demonstrated that such re-employment is justified (JCUS-
                      MAR 59, p. 295; JCUS-MAR 79, pp. 15-16). To address a rising trend to re-
                      employ retired law enforcement officers for multiple 18-month periods, the
                      Judicial Conference adopted a recommendation of the Committee to amend its
                      policy regarding re-employment of annuitants to (a) make explicit that a
                      retired law enforcement officer may be re-employed for only a single period
                      for a maximum of 18 months, and (b) provide that all such re-employments
                      must meet one of the following two criteria: (1) well-qualified candidates
                      other than the retired law enforcement officer are not available (as evidenced
                      by the results of a vacancy announcement); or (2) the experience, knowledge,
                      or competencies of the retired law enforcement officer are critical to the
                      court’s ability to respond to an emergency.


                      TELEWORK OFFICIAL DUTY STATION

                               Under current policy set forth in the Guide to Judiciary Policies and
                      Procedures, Vol. 1, Ch. 10, Subch. 1610.1, the court, chambers, court unit, or
                      federal public defender organization is the official duty station for teleworking
                      employees. The Committee recommended the policy be amended to provide
                      that the official duty station of a teleworking employee would be the
                      court/defender organization location only where the employee was required to
                      report to that location at least once per week on a regular and recurring basis.
                      The telework site would be the official duty station for employees who are not
                      so required. The Committee recommended other changes to the telework
                      policy, including those related to reimbursement for travel from the telework
                      site to the employing court and relocations. After discussion, the Conference
                      recommitted the recommendations to the Committee for further consideration.


                      AWARD PROGRAMS

                            Noting that some courts are looking for ways to recognize employee
                      accomplishments without resorting to costly cash awards, the Committee
                      recommended that the Conference amend its employee recognition program


                                                             26
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 17, 2009

                       policy with regard to providing or paying for meals at awards programs. The
                       Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation to amend the policy as
                       follows:

                                A court may use appropriated funds —

                                a.         For food and beverages (excluding alcohol) for an
                                           award ceremony as long as such expenditures are for
                                           the purpose of enhancing an award program and limited
                                           to reasonable amounts, not to exceed the dinner
                                           component of the meal and incidental expense
                                           allowance (under the Federal Travel Regulations) for
                                           the ceremony location, per employee attending the
                                           event;

                                b.         To provide a meal to an employee as an informal
                                           recognition award, either alone or in conjunction with
                                           other informal or formal recognition; and

                                c.         To pay the meal expenses of award nominees and their
                                           supervisors who are invited to attend award ceremonies
                                           sponsored by entities outside the judiciary.


                       FITNESS/WELLNESS PROMOTION INCENTIVES

                               Under 5 U.S.C. § 7901, government agencies may establish a health
                       services program to promote and maintain the physical and mental fitness of
                       employees. Many courts and federal defender organizations have sponsored
                       fitness and wellness educational programs, such as smoking cessation, weight
                       management, stress management, nutrition, walking clubs, and fitness activity
                       challenges. Citing to potential beneficial effects of health promotion
                       programs in the workplace, including enhanced employee productivity and
                       reduced absenteeism, the Committee recommended that courts and federal
                       defender organizations be authorized to use decentralized funds for the
                       purchase of fitness/wellness-related items (limited to the Internal Revenue
                       Service definition of de minimis fringe benefits) for employees who agree to
                       participate or have participated in fitness/wellness activities, as allowed under
                       5 U.S.C. § 7901. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.




                                                                  27
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 17, 2009



                      HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
                      INFORMATION SYSTEM

                               The Human Resources Management Information System (HRMIS) has
                      several applications that have recently been deployed or are in the process of
                      being deployed that provide “self-service” tools for courts and federal public
                      defender organization employees, making personnel records that had
                      previously been available only in paper also available online. The Committee
                      recommended that paper copies of personnel documents that are available
                      online no longer be provided to courts, noting that universal use of online
                      tools will generate significant cost savings. The Judicial Conference agreed
                      that, effective six months after the HRMIS Electronic Official Personnel
                      Folder (eOPF) application is fully deployed, paper copies of all documents
                      filed in the eOPF, as well as leave and earnings statements, Payroll Certifying
                      Officer reports, Notices of Health Premiums Due, Step Increase Certifications,
                      Notifications of Leave Without Pay, and Personal Services for the National
                      Courts reports, and any similar documents that are available online, will no
                      longer be provided to courts, including active and senior judges, and federal
                      public defender organizations.


                      JUDGE-ORDERED TRANSCRIPTS

                              Section 753(b) of title 28, United States Code, sets forth the duties and
                      responsibilities of official court reporters, including the responsibility to
                      provide certified transcripts without charge to a requesting judge. With regard
                      to transcript requests from parties, section 753(f) provides that court reporters
                      may charge and collect fees from parties ordering transcripts at rates
                      prescribed by the court, subject to the approval of the Judicial Conference.
                      The Conference has set maximum transcript rates based in part on whether the
                      transcript is an original (currently $3.65 per page for ordinary delivery, i.e.,
                      delivery within 30 days) or a copy ($.90 per page for ordinary delivery).
                      Questions have been raised as to whether the original or copy fee applies when
                      a party requests a transcript that was originally produced at the request of a
                      judge. Noting that providing a transcript to a judge is considered part of a
                      reporter’s official duties for which the reporter is paid an annual salary, the
                      Committee agreed that only one original transcript can be produced and that
                      all subsequent orders for the same transcript are copies for which the lower fee
                      would apply. On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference
                      amended its transcript fee policy to make explicit that official court reporters


                                                             28
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 17, 2009

                       may charge only copy fees for transcripts provided to parties when the original
                       transcript was produced at the request of a judge.


                       COURT REPORTER TOUR OF DUTY

                               In September 1987, the Judicial Conference adopted a policy that
                       required a court that places some of its reporters on a regular tour of duty (i.e.,
                       established work hours) to place all reporters in the same location on regular
                       tours of duty. The policy allowed courts for good and sufficient reasons, when
                       approved by their judicial councils, to exempt any reporters on staff at the
                       time of adoption of the policy (JCUS-SEP 87, p. 63). The Southern District of
                       Iowa, which had already exempted one of its three court reporters in Des
                       Moines as provided for in the policy, requested an additional exemption for a
                       second reporter, the third reporter being on a regular tour of duty. The court
                       has indicated that the exemption would be applied to the incumbent reporter
                       only. On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference approved the
                       exemption for the Southern District of Iowa at its Des Moines location from
                       the Conference’s September 1987 policy.


                       LAW CLERK STUDENT LOANS

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       rescinded its March 2001 position to seek legislation deferring repayment of
                       both principal and interest on federally insured educational loans for full-time
                       chambers law clerks during clerkships, for a period not to exceed three years
                       of service (JCUS-MAR 01, pp. 26-27). The underlying statute providing for
                       deferral of student loan interest has been substantially amended to eliminate
                       occupation-specific deferrals.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it was provided
                       with a detailed briefing on the results of an executive compensation study and
                       will receive an analysis of the pros and cons of the recommendations in the
                       report from a working group of judges and unit executives established to assist
                       the Committee in evaluating the report. The Committee deferred action again
                       on a revised pay structure for court reporters, and asked the Administrative
                       Office to provide additional information, including a single recommended
                       proposal. The Committee chair emphasized that increased diversity of the

                                                               29
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 17, 2009

                      judiciary’s workforce is one of the most important issues confronting the
                      Committee, and its ad hoc subcommittee on diversity presented an overview
                      of its efforts since the last Committee meeting.


             C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL S ECURITY

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it had in-depth
                      discussions regarding its role in overseeing the formulation and execution of
                      the court security budget. The Committee also discussed its concerns
                      regarding the amount of personal information about judges that is posted on
                      courts’ official external websites. The Committee will offer guidance to
                      courts and judges on posting biographical information on court-specific
                      websites.


             C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
             OF THE M AGISTRATE J UDGES S YSTEM

                      WAIVER OF MAGISTRATE JUDGE
                      APPLICANT REQUIREMENT

                              On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
                      Magistrate Judges System, the Judicial Conference agreed to grant a request
                      from the Western District of Wisconsin for a waiver of the two-year limit on
                      credit for law clerk service that may be used toward the five-year active
                      practice of law requirement for magistrate judge applicants under section
                      1.01(b)(4) of the Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States
                      Establishing Standards and Procedures for the Appointment and
                      Reappointment of United States Magistrate Judges. The waiver will allow the
                      incumbent clerk of court in that district to serve as the clerk of
                      court/magistrate judge.


                      CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                            After consideration of the report of the Committee on the
                      Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of


                                                            30
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 17, 2009

                       the Director of the Administrative Office, the respective district courts, and
                       the judicial councils of the relevant circuits, the Judicial Conference
                       determined to —

                       a.       Discontinue the clerk of court/magistrate judge position at Shreveport
                                in the Western District of Louisiana effective March 15, 2009, the date
                                of the incumbent’s retirement, and make no other change in the
                                number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in
                                that district.

                       b.       Make no change in the number, locations, salaries, or arrangements of
                                the magistrate judge positions in the following courts: Eastern District
                                of North Carolina, Eastern District of Virginia, Eastern District of
                                Arkansas, District of Montana, District of Nevada, Northern District of
                                Oklahoma, and Southern District of Alabama.

                       See also supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” p. 7.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                       reported that because of an immediate need for three new full-time magistrate
                       judge positions in the Southern and Western Districts of Texas and the
                       Northern District of California, the Executive Committee acted on behalf of
                       the Judicial Conference on an expedited basis to authorize those positions as
                       well as accelerated funding, effective immediately (see supra, “Miscellaneous
                       Actions,” p. 7). Pursuant to the September 2004 Judicial Conference policy
                       regarding the review of magistrate judge position vacancies (JCUS-SEP 04,
                       p. 26), during the period between the Committee’s June 2008 and December
                       2008 meetings the Committee chair approved filling six full-time magistrate
                       judge position vacancies. At its December 2008 meeting, the full Committee
                       approved filling four magistrate judge position vacancies. The Committee
                       also agreed to reiterate its support for pursuing a proposal to provide Article
                       III retirement credit for service as a magistrate judge or bankruptcy judge (see
                       also “Committee Activities,” p. 9).




                                                               31
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 17, 2009


             C OMMITTEE ON R ULES OF P RACTICE AND P ROCEDURE

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                      approved for publication a proposed amendment to Bankruptcy Rule 6003 and
                      proposed style amendments to Evidence Rules 501-706, although publication
                      of the proposed restyled Evidence Rules will be deferred until the entire set of
                      Federal Rules of Evidence has been restyled. The Advisory Committees on
                      Appellate, Bankruptcy, Civil, Criminal, and Evidence Rules are reviewing
                      comments from the public submitted on amendments proposed in August
                      2008 to their respective sets of rules. The proposals include amendments to
                      Civil Rule 26 on the discovery of expert witnesses and Civil Rule 56 on
                      summary judgment. The Advisory Committee on Civil Rules held three
                      public hearings on those proposed amendments and heard testimony from over
                      50 witnesses.


             C OMMITTEE ON S PACE AND F ACILITIES

                      FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN
                      FOR FYS 2010-2014

                              On recommendation of the Committee on Space and Facilities, the
                      Judicial Conference approved the Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan for FYs
                      2010-2014, which, with one exception, moves the projects from the previous
                      five-year plan up by one year. The exception is the deletion of the Cedar
                      Rapids, Iowa project, which was declared a judicial space emergency in 2008
                      as a result of significant flood damage, and has already been funded by
                      Congress.


                      TENANT ALTERATIONS FORMULA

                              The Committee on Space and Facilities, in consultation with the
                      Budget Committee, recommended, and the Judicial Conference approved, a
                      tenant alterations formula that uses rentable square footage (weighted at 50
                      percent) and authorized staff (weighted at 50 percent) to determine tenant
                      alterations requirements. This formula is intended to provide a more accurate
                      representation of the courts’ tenant alterations requirements.


                                                            32
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 17, 2009



                       CIRCUIT RENT BUDGET PROGRAM -
                       COMPONENT B PROJECTS

                               The circuit rent budget program, which was approved by the Judicial
                       Conference in September 2007 (JCUS-SEP 07, pp. 36-37), divides the
                       judiciary’s rent requirements into three components (A, B, and C).
                       “Component B” projects, which include all newly constructed courthouses or
                       annexes, build-to-suit lease projects, requests for GSA feasibility studies, and
                       prospectus-level repair and alteration projects, generally require Judicial
                       Conference approval.3 At this session, the Conference took the following
                       actions with regard to Component B projects.

                               Feasibility Studies. After conducting an urgency evaluation of the 33
                       projects that were subject to the 2004 two-year moratorium on courtroom
                       construction (JCUS-SEP 04, pp. 34-35), the Committee recommended that the
                       Conference approve GSA feasibility studies for the following four projects,
                       which were identified as the most urgent: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; St.
                       Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands; Des Moines, Iowa; and Chattanooga, Tennessee.
                       The Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.

                              Build-to-Suit Lease Project. On recommendation of the Committee,
                       the Judicial Conference approved a lease-construct courthouse for Clarksburg,
                       West Virginia, subject to the conditions set forth below, at a rental cost not to
                       exceed the rent cap to be established by the Space and Facilities Committee —


                       a.       The district must commit in writing that the replacement judge for the
                                current active district judge in Clarksburg, who is expected to take
                                senior status in 2009, will be assigned to the Clarksburg division;

                       b.       The space program will provide for two courtrooms and three
                                chambers;




              3
               Necessary chambers and courtrooms for judges taking senior status, replacement
              judges, and new judgeships are also “Component B” projects, but require only
              Committee approval.


                                                              33
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                    March 17, 2009

                      c.       The court recognizes that the USMS will in all likelihood face
                               difficulty in obtaining the funds to build out detention cells in the
                               project;

                      d.       No circuit rent budget Component B funding will be provided for an
                               interim space solution in the existing building in the time before the
                               lease-construct project is delivered; and

                      e.       The lease-construct procurement will adhere to the new process to be
                               piloted in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that it discussed the
                      status of development of a repair and alterations appendix to the U.S. Courts
                      Design Guide to be used to provide greater clarity in renovation projects. A
                      draft of the appendix will be presented to the Committee at its June 2009
                      meeting. The Committee also discussed lease-construct courthouses and how
                      changes in the method used by GSA to procure these buildings could prove
                      beneficial to the judiciary.

             F UNDING
                              All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                      funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                      the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                      establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                      Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                      Presiding




                                                               34
