R EPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE J UDICIAL C ONFERENCE
OF THE U NITED S TATES


March 16, 2010


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on March 16, 2010, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                    First Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                Chief Judge Mark L. Wolf,
                                       District of Massachusetts

                    Second Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs
                                Chief Judge William K. Sessions III,
                                       District of Vermont

                    Third Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Anthony J. Scirica
                                Chief Judge Harvey Bartle III,
                                       Eastern District of Pennsylvania

                    Fourth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.
                                Chief Judge James P. Jones,
                                       Western District of Virginia

                    Fifth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Edith Hollan Jones
                                Judge Sim Lake,
                                       Southern District of Texas
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            March 16, 2010

                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alice M. Batchelder
                                           Judge Solomon Oliver, Jr.,
                                                  Northern District of Ohio

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook
                                           Chief Judge Richard L. Young,
                                                  Southern District of Indiana

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge James B. Loken
                                           Judge Rodney W. Sippel,
                                                  Eastern District of Missouri

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alex Kozinski
                                           Judge Charles R. Breyer,
                                                  Northern District of California

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Robert H. Henry
                                           Judge Robin J. Cauthron,
                                                  Western District of Oklahoma

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel F. Dubina
                                           Judge Myron H. Thompson,
                                                  Middle District of Alabama


                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge David Bryan Sentelle
                                           Chief Judge Royce C. Lamberth,
                                                  District of Columbia

                                                               2

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 16, 2010

                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Paul R. Michel

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Jane A. Restani

                               The following Judicial Conference committee chairs attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Bobby R. Baldock, Julia Smith Gibbons,
                       Michael S. Kanne, M. Margaret McKeown, Jeffrey S. Sutton, and Richard C.
                       Tallman, and District Judges Julie E. Carnes, Rosemary M. Collyer, Claire V.
                       Eagan, Janet C. Hall, Robert L. Hinkle, D. Brock Hornby, Mark R. Kravitz,
                       Barbara M.G. Lynn, J. Frederick Motz, Donald C. Pogue, Michael A. Ponsor,
                       Julie A. Robinson, Lee H. Rosenthal, Charles R. Simpson III, George Z.
                       Singal, and Laura Taylor Swain. Bankruptcy Judge Rosemary Gambardella
                       and Magistrate Judge Anthony J. Battaglia were also in attendance. Collins
                       Fitzpatrick of the Seventh Circuit represented the circuit executives.

                               James C. Duff, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
                       States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill C. Sayenga,
                       Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General
                       Counsel; Laura C. Minor, Assistant Director, and Wendy Jennis, Deputy
                       Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Cordia A.
                       Strom, Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; and David A. Sellers, Assistant
                       Director, Public Affairs. District Judge Barbara Jacobs Rothstein and John S.
                       Cooke, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center, and
                       Judith W. Sheon, Staff Director of the United States Sentencing Commission,
                       were in attendance at the session of the Conference, as was Jeffrey P. Minear,
                       Counselor to the Chief Justice. The 2009-2010 Supreme Court Fellows also
                       observed the Conference proceedings.

                               Acting Deputy Attorney General Gary Grindler addressed the
                       Conference on matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department
                       of Justice. Senators Jeff Sessions and Sheldon Whitehouse and
                       Representatives John Conyers, Jr., and Henry C. Johnson, Jr., spoke on
                       matters pending in Congress of interest to the Conference.




                                                                3

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 16, 2010


                      R EPORTS
                              Mr. Duff reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                      courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge
                      Rothstein spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC)
                      programs, and Judge Sessions, in his capacity as chair of the United States
                      Sentencing Commission, reported on Sentencing Commission activities.
                      Judge Julia Smith Gibbons, Chair of the Committee on the Budget, presented
                      a report on budget matters.


             E LECTION

                             The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
                      Federal Judicial Center Judge Edward Prado of the Court of Appeals for the
                      Fifth Circuit to succeed Chief Judge William R. Traxler, Jr., of the Court of
                      Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.


             E XECUTIVE C OMMITTEE

                      TRIBAL LAW AND ORDER ACT OF 2009

                              The proposed Tribal Law and Order Act of 2009, S. 797 and
                      H.R. 1924 (111th Congress), addresses the administration of criminal justice in
                      Indian country. Three committees of the Judicial Conference considered
                      portions of the bill and two committees, the Criminal Law Committee and the
                      Defender Services Committee, determined to make recommendations to the
                      Judicial Conference regarding select provisions. So that the judiciary’s views
                      would not be mooted by intervening legislative action, the Executive
                      Committee was asked to consider the recommendations on an expedited basis.
                      The Executive Committee agreed to act on behalf of the Conference with
                      regard to one of two recommendations made by the Criminal Law Committee.
                      It approved a recommendation that the Judicial Conference oppose any
                      legislation that would establish litigation priorities among different kinds of
                      criminal cases brought in the federal courts or that would supplant in any way
                      the time limits presently set by the Speedy Trial Act, 18 U.S.C. § 3161 et seq.
                      With regard to the remaining recommendation of the Criminal Law
                      Committee and the recommendation of the Defender Services Committee, the
                      Executive Committee determined that they should be considered and


                                                             4

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                             March 16, 2010

                        discussed by the full Conference at the March 2010 session. See infra, “Tribal
                        Law and Order Act of 2009,” pp. 10-11, 12.


                        MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                                The Executive Committee —

                        •       Approved final fiscal year 2010 financial plans for the Salaries and
                                Expenses, Defender Services, Court Security, and Fees of Jurors and
                                Commissioners accounts;

                        •	      Approved technical adjustments to the judiciary’s fiscal year 2011
                                budget request;

                        •       Approved on behalf of the Conference an updated Five-Year
                                Courthouse Project Plan for Fiscal Years 2011-2015 for submission to
                                Congress;

                        •	      Asked the Defender Services Committee to consider, in consultation
                                with the Budget and Federal-State Jurisdiction Committees, issues
                                raised in a letter concerning federal defender representation of
                                defendants in state court capital habeas corpus proceedings; and

                         •	     Asked the Judicial Resources Committee to develop a statement about
                                employment dispute resolution hearing officers’ duties.


              C OMMITTEE ON A UDITS AND A DMINISTRATIVE
              O FFICE A CCOUNTABILITY 1

                        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                        reported that it had an in-depth discussion of how to carry out its revised
                        jurisdiction. It determined to enhance its oversight of the audit program,
                        including having regular direct contact with auditors; approved a plan to
                        assess the AO’s program review responsibilities, standards, objectives and


              1
                  Previously known as the Committee on the Administrative Office.

                                                               5
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 16, 2010

                       practices; and determined that the AO should update and reissue internally the
                       publication, The Federal Judiciary’s Oversight and Review System, originally
                       published at the request of the Committee in December 2005.


                       C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
                       OF THE B ANKRUPTCY S YSTEM

                       OFFICIAL DUTY STATION

                               On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, and in accordance
                       with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(1), the Judicial Conference approved a request of the
                       Fourth Circuit Judicial Council to transfer the official duty station for Chief
                       Judge Randy Doub in the Eastern District of North Carolina from Wilson to
                       Greenville and to designate Wilson as an additional place of holding court.
                       Also on the Committee’s recommendation, and in accordance with § 230.10
                       of Volume 9 of the Guide to Judiciary Policy,2 the Conference approved the
                       transfer of the duty station of the bankruptcy administrator in the Eastern
                       District of North Carolina from Wilson to Raleigh, subject to the approval of
                       the Judicial Council of the Fourth Circuit.


                       RECALL OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

                             At the request of the Committee, the Conference agreed that
                       recommendations regarding recall of bankruptcy judges would be withdrawn.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                       reported that it voted unanimously to recommend to the Budget Committee
                       that the existing system of budgeting for chambers staff be maintained. It also
                       approved a recommendation of its Subcommittee on Technology and Statistics
                       that certain additional bankruptcy data be transmitted to the Inter-University
                       Consortium for Political and Social Research at the University of Michigan.
                       In addition, the Committee discussed several issues related to judicial



             2
                 Previously known as the Guide to Judiciary Policies and Procedures.

                                                              6

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 16, 2010

                       resources, including efforts to make more efficient use of the bankruptcy judge
                       recall program and to promote greater use of intercircuit assignments of
                       bankruptcy judges.


              C OMMITTEE ON THE B UDGET

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Budget reported that it continues to be
                       concerned about the long-term financial health of the judiciary and spent
                       considerable time discussing internal and external actions that will impact
                       future budgets. Given the current difficult fiscal environment, the Committee
                       plans to work with the program committees to begin consideration of revising
                       the annual budget cap of 8.2 percent for the Salaries and Expenses account.
                       The Committee also discussed the judiciary’s most recent long-range budget
                       estimates (through fiscal year 2019) and noted that sizable shortfalls in the
                       Salaries and Expenses account are projected. Consequently, the judiciary's
                       two-pronged approach of cost containment and congressional outreach, which
                       has been critical to the judiciary’s recent financial success, will be even more
                       important in the coming years.


              C OMMITTEE ON C ODES OF C ONDUCT

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in September 2009, the Committee received 40
                       new written inquiries and issued 41 written advisory responses. During this
                       period, the average response time for requests was 18 days. In addition, the
                       Committee chair responded to 150 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                       members responded to 132 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                       responded to 389 informal inquiries.




                                                              7

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 16, 2010


             C OMMITTEE ON C OURT A DMINISTRATION
             AND C ASE M ANAGEMENT

                      CIVIL LITIGATION MANAGEMENT MANUAL

                               In March 2001, the Judicial Conference approved publication of the
                      Civil Litigation Management Manual, which provides information on
                      litigation management, cost and delay reduction techniques, and alternative
                      dispute resolution programs, as required by the Civil Justice Reform Act of
                      1990 (see 28 U.S.C. § 479(c)) (JCUS-MAR 01, p. 15). To fulfill its obligation
                      under the Act to update periodically the Civil Litigation Management Manual,
                      at this session, on recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration
                      and Case Management, the Conference approved a revised version of the
                      Manual that updates the relevant statutes and rules, describes changes in civil
                      practice since 2001, and provides more current advice and references on civil
                      case management. In addition, the Conference delegated to the Court
                      Administration and Case Management Committee the authority to make
                      technical and/or conforming, non-controversial amendments to the Manual.


                      COURTROOM SECURITY SURVEILLANCE RECORDINGS

                              In September 2009, the Judicial Conference approved the development
                      and transmission to the National Archives and Records Administration
                      (NARA) of a records disposition schedule for routine courtroom security
                      surveillance recordings, consistent with the terms of a memorandum of
                      understanding (MOU) to be entered into by the judiciary and the U.S.
                      Marshals Service establishing guidance on the creation, retention, use, and
                      disposal of such recordings (JCUS-SEP 09, pp. 23-24). At this session, on
                      recommendation of the Committee and consistent with the terms of the MOU,
                      the Conference approved a records disposition schedule for routine courtroom
                      security surveillance recordings that provides for a retention period of 14 to 30
                      days before disposal of the recordings, as well as the authority, in the case of a
                      security incident, for the security video to be maintained until the conclusion
                      of the investigation or such time as determined by order of the chief judge of
                      the court.




                                                              8

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 16, 2010



                       ELECTRONIC PUBLIC ACCESS FEE SCHEDULE

                                In order to encourage use of the Public Access to Court Electronic
                       Records (PACER) system by the public, in March 2001 the Judicial
                       Conference provided that users would not be billed until their accounts totaled
                       at least $10 in a one-year period, thus allowing free access to at least 125
                       pages of court filings (JCUS-MAR 01, pp. 12-13). To increase the amount of
                       data available without charge, at this session the Committee recommended,
                       and the Conference agreed, that users would be allowed to accrue $10 in free
                       usage quarterly, instead of yearly, before they would be charged. The
                       Conference therefore amended Item I of the Electronic Public Access Fee
                       Schedule to read, in part, as follows: “No fee is owed under this provision
                       until an account holder accrues charges of more than $10 in a quarterly billing
                       cycle.”


                       PUBLIC ACCESS TO DISTRICT AND BANKRUPTCY
                       COURT OPINIONS

                               On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
                       Case Management, the Judicial Conference approved a one-year pilot project
                       with the Government Printing Office (GPO), involving no more than 12
                       courts, to provide public access to court opinions through GPO’s FDsys
                       system, which is an advanced, internet-based digital system that allows
                       searches across opinions and across courts. The Conference also agreed to
                       delegate to the Committee the authority to extend the pilot program for up to
                       one additional year, if necessary to ensure that sufficient data is collected to
                       evaluate the program.


                       ELECTRONIC ACCESS TO DIGITAL AUDIO RECORDINGS

                              In March 2007, the Judicial Conference established a pilot program to
                       evaluate the feasibility of making digital audio recordings of court hearings
                       available to the public through PACER (JCUS-MAR 07, p. 12). After
                       reviewing the results of the program and concluding that providing such
                       access did not adversely affect the performance of the judiciary’s information
                       technology systems and that it improved public access, the Committee
                       recommended that the Judicial Conference—



                                                               9

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 16, 2010

                      a.       Allow courts, at the discretion of the presiding judge, to provide access
                               to digital audio files via PACER;

                      b.       Establish a fee for public access to such recordings commensurate with
                               the maximum fee for downloading a single file from PACER
                               (currently $2.40); and

                      c.       Delegate to the Administrative Office the authority to establish
                               appropriate language in the Electronic Public Access Fee Schedule to
                               effectuate this fee.

                      The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                      reported that it created a subcommittee to oversee the progress of Phase I of
                      the Next Generation of CM/ECF. The Committee also discussed how it could
                      assist courts and judges with handling the increasing number of
                      terrorism-related cases. In that regard, the Committee endorsed revisions to
                      the judiciary’s security procedures under the Classified Information
                      Procedures Act, which will be forwarded to the Chief Justice, who must
                      approve the procedures in consultation with the Attorney General, Director of
                      National Intelligence, and Secretary of Defense.


             C OMMITTEE ON C RIMINAL L AW

                      TRIBAL LAW AND ORDER ACT OF 2009

                              As discussed above, the Criminal Law Committee made two
                      recommendations to the Judicial Conference regarding the proposed Tribal
                      Law and Order Act of 2009. The first recommendation, to oppose
                      establishment of litigation priorities among different kinds of criminal cases
                      brought in the federal courts, was adopted by the Executive Committee on
                      behalf of the Conference. See “Tribal Law and Order Act of 2009,” pp. 4-5.
                      The second recommendation, to oppose any legislation that would expand
                      tribal court sentencing authority beyond one year of imprisonment, was
                      discussed at the Conference session along with a related recommendation
                      from the Defender Services Committee to urge Congress to incorporate in


                                                              10

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 16, 2010

                       legislation applying to Indian tribal criminal adjudications certain bedrock
                       principles of the right to counsel that are part of the federal and state systems.
                       After discussion, the Conference adopted a recommendation, offered as a
                       substitute for both the Criminal Law and Defender Services Committees’
                       recommendations, that the Conference would take no position on pending
                       tribal court legislation but would communicate to Congress concerns about the
                       impact on the federal courts of portions of the legislation, as set forth in a draft
                       letter presented to the Conference. In that letter, the Conference stated:

                                         After careful consideration, the Judicial Conference of
                                the United States, which is the policy-making body of the
                                Judicial Branch, has decided not to take a position as to
                                whether the Congress should increase tribal sentencing
                                authority from one to three years, and it defers to Congress as
                                to its determination on this matter of Indian tribal authority.

                                        The Judicial Conference nevertheless notes that
                                enactment of the proposed legislation, which would effectively
                                give tribal courts felony jurisdiction over a number of common
                                offenses, could result in increased petitions to the federal courts
                                for habeas corpus relief from tribal court action. The absence
                                of procedural requirements in tribal courts poses difficulties for
                                federal habeas courts reviewing tribal proceedings. For
                                example, the absence of a record could render it difficult for a
                                federal court to evaluate challenges to tribal convictions. In
                                addition, the procedural and substantive differences between
                                federal and tribal law may complicate federal court assessments
                                of whether certain tribal convictions qualify as predicate
                                offenses for federal sentencing purposes.

                                        We can offer no simple solution for addressing those
                                concerns. We nevertheless respectfully request that your
                                committee take account of those factors in your consideration
                                of the proposed legislation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Criminal Law reported that pursuant to authority
                       delegated to the Committee by the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR 06,
                       p. 15), it endorsed stylistic modifications to Monograph 110, Judicial
                       Officer’s Reference on Alternatives to Detention and Conditions of Release,

                                                                11

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 16, 2010

                      and Monograph 113, The Federal Location Monitoring Program for
                      Defendants and Offenders. The Committee also reported that it endorsed the
                      use of alphanumeric user identification (“user ID”) and password verification
                      to facilitate the use of electronic monthly reporting by a defendant or offender
                      as an alternative to the collection of paper forms bearing a defendant’s or
                      offender’s “pen and ink” signature. Finally, the Committee reported that the
                      Federal Judicial Center has agreed to conduct a study to assess the efficacy
                      and cost effectiveness of federal reentry court programs and has designed a
                      multi-year research project to that end.


             C OMMITTEE ON D EFENDER S ERVICES

                      COMMUNITY DEFENDER ORGANIZATION BENEFITS

                              On recommendation of the Committee on Defender Services, the
                      Judicial Conference approved a community defender organization severance
                      pay policy that is based on the policy applicable to federal public defender
                      organization employees. If a community defender organization decides to
                      adopt a severance pay plan, it must conform to this policy.


                      TRIBAL LAW AND ORDER ACT OF 2009

                               The Committee on Defender Services made a recommendation with
                      regard to the proposed Tribal Law and Order Act of 2009, S. 797, H.R. 1924
                      (111th Congress) urging Congress to incorporate in legislation applying to
                      Indian tribal criminal adjudications certain bedrock principles of the right to
                      counsel that are part of the federal and state systems. As discussed above (see
                      supra, “Tribal Law and Order Act of 2009,” pp. 4-5), the Executive
                      Committee, which had been asked to act on the recommendation on an
                      expedited basis, determined that the recommendation should be discussed by
                      the full Conference at the March 2010 session. After discussion, the
                      Conference approved a substitute motion in lieu of this recommendation and a
                      related Criminal Law Committee recommendation, agreeing to take no
                      position on pending tribal court legislation, but to communicate to Congress
                      concerns about the impact on the federal courts of portions of the legislation,
                      as set forth in a draft letter presented at the Conference session. See supra,
                      “Tribal Law and Order Act of 2009,” pp. 10-11.




                                                             12

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 16, 2010



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Defender Services reported that it received a report
                       on a federal defender compensation study containing recommendations for
                       achieving closer salary and benefits parity with comparable positions in the
                       United States attorneys’ offices, and it endorsed for FY 2010 those
                       recommendations that could be accomplished within the existing budgetary
                       allocations to individual federal defender organizations. The Committee also
                       discussed the role of its Defender Services Budget Subcommittee in reviewing
                       federal defender organizations’ requests for additional funds to support
                       “mega-cases.” In addition, the Committee considered and declined to approve
                       a request from the District of Idaho to establish a Coeur d'Alene branch office
                       of the community defender organization serving the district because the
                       current level of Criminal Justice Act appointments did not warrant the
                       increased expense.


              C OMMITTEE ON F EDERAL -S TATE J URISDICTION

                       DIVERSITY JURISDICTION

                               In response to a request from the Executive Committee, the Federal-
                       State Jurisdiction Committee has been considering the continued viability of
                       older Judicial Conference-approved legislative positions that have not been
                       pursued in Congress for some time. At this session, it reviewed the
                       Conference’s 1990 position supporting elimination of non-economic damages
                       from the calculation of the amount in controversy for cases based on diversity
                       jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1332 (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 60). Noting that the
                       judiciary had not pursued the position in Congress in over ten years and that it
                       was extremely unlikely that the position would be viewed favorably by
                       Congress, the Committee recommended that the position be rescinded. The
                       Conference approved the recommendation.


                       PRISON ABUSE REMEDIES ACT

                               The proposed Prison Abuse Remedies Act, H.R. 4335 (111th
                       Congress), would amend the Prison Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PLRA) to
                       reduce some of the restrictions that the PLRA placed on the filing of civil
                       rights actions by prisoners alleging prison abuse. After reviewing the


                                                              13

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 16, 2010

                      proposed legislation, the Committee recommended that the Conference take
                      no position on H.R. 4335, or similar legislation, with the exception of
                      opposition to the provision that would amend 28 U.S.C. § 1915(b) to
                      eliminate the requirement in current law that a prisoner proceeding in forma
                      pauperis be assessed the filing fee upon the filing of a civil action. It further
                      recommended that should Congress proceed to modify the current filing fee
                      requirement, the Conference should respectfully urge Congress to retain the
                      requirement for the assessment of fees upon the filing of a civil action, with
                      allowance for the refund of filing fees for those actions that are not dismissed
                      under 28 U.S.C. § 1915A, 28 U.S.C. § 1915(e)(2), or 42 U.S.C. § 1997e(c)(1).
                      The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                      HAGUE CONVENTION ON CHOICE
                      OF COURT AGREEMENTS

                              In response to a request from the United States Department of State,
                      the Committee conducted a review of the Hague Convention on Choice of
                      Court Agreements, which was signed by the United States in January 2009
                      and awaits Senate ratification and the adoption of implementing legislation.
                      Under the terms of the Convention, ratifying Nation-States agree that their
                      courts will give effect to clauses in international commercial contracts in
                      which the parties select a particular nation’s courts as the forum for
                      adjudication of disputes arising from the contract. With regard to proposed
                      federal legislation to implement the Hague Convention, on recommendation of
                      the Committee, the Judicial Conference, consistent with principles of
                      federalism, agreed to—

                      a.       Support the inclusion of language to provide that actions do not, solely
                               by virtue of the fact that they have been brought for the resolution of
                               contract disputes or for the enforcement of judgments of other courts
                               under the Hague Convention, qualify for federal question jurisdiction;

                      b.       Oppose the inclusion of language that would allow parties to remove
                               actions brought pursuant to the Hague Convention to federal court at
                               any time, but support the application of current law governing removal
                               to such actions; and

                      c.       Oppose the inclusion of language that would provide for federal
                               district court interlocutory review of state court decisions concerning
                               conflicts between the federal and state statutes implementing the
                               Hague Convention.

                                                              14

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 16, 2010



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it was
                       continuing its efforts to facilitate the exchange of information and ideas
                       among local state-federal judicial councils. The Committee continues to
                       monitor the status of regulations to certify states for expedited review of
                       federal capital habeas corpus petitions and also is continuing its dialogue with
                       state supreme court chief justices concerning improvements in capital habeas
                       corpus litigation in both the federal and state court systems. The Committee
                       also received a report on the status of legislation addressing procedures for
                       claiming the state secrets privilege. In addition, a representative of the
                       Department of Justice gave a presentation on efforts to enact comprehensive
                       immigration reform legislation and such legislation’s potential impact on the
                       federal courts.


              C OMMITTEE ON F INANCIAL D ISCLOSURE

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that it continues to
                       enhance the financial disclosure report (FDR) software, and also is overseeing
                       development of a system for the electronic filing and records management of
                       financial disclosure reports. Analysis of the calendar year 2008 financial
                       disclosure reports reflects that use of the enhanced self-audit function in the
                       FDR software continues to improve the quality of the reports and reduce the
                       volume of correspondence between the Committee and filers. As of
                       December 31, 2009, the Committee had received 4,421 financial disclosure
                       reports and certifications for calendar year 2008, including 1,338 reports and
                       certifications from Supreme Court justices, Article III judges, and judicial
                       officers of special courts; 365 reports from bankruptcy judges; 582 reports
                       from magistrate judges; and 2,136 reports from judicial employees.


               C OMMITTEE ON INFORMATION T ECHNOLOGY

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Information Technology reported that it discussed
                       efforts to lay the foundation for an improved communications infrastructure

                                                              15

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 16, 2010

                      and endorsed the concept of developing and managing an enterprise-wide
                      internet telephone service the courts could use at their option. The Committee
                      endorsed providing e-mail accounts and access to the J-Net on the judiciary’s
                      data communications network (DCN) to retired bankruptcy and magistrate
                      judges who are subject to recall. Along with other updates, the Committee
                      heard reports on development of the next generation of the Case
                      Management/Electronic Case Files (CM/ECF) systems; current issues within
                      the Electronic Public Access program; and a project to create an electronic
                      Criminal Justice Act voucher processing system. It also awarded five grants
                      to local courts to promote the development of local technology solutions that
                      may be shared with other court units.


            C OMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT A SSIGNMENTS

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 99
                      intercircuit assignments were undertaken by 70 Article III judges from
                      July 1, 2009, to December 31, 2009. The Committee also reported that for the
                      full calendar year 2009, 238 intercircuit assignments were processed by the
                      Committee and approved by the Chief Justice, the highest number in the last
                      20 years. During this time, the Committee continued to disseminate
                      information about intercircuit assignments and aided courts requesting
                      assistance by identifying and obtaining judges willing to take assignments.


             C OMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL J UDICIAL R ELATIONS

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                      involvement in rule of law and judicial reform throughout the world,
                      highlighting activities in Africa, Asia and the Pacific Basin, Latin America
                      and the Caribbean, the Middle East, Europe, and Eurasia. The Committee
                      further reported on its continued participation in the rule of law component of
                      the Library of Congress’ Open World Program for jurists from Russia,
                      Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan. In
                      addition, the Committee reported about rule of law activities involving the
                      Federal Judicial Center, the U.S. State Department, the U.S. Agency for
                      International Development, the U.S. Department of Justice, the World Bank,

                                                            16

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 16, 2010

                       the AO Office of Defender Services, and United States court administrators.
                       Finally, the Committee reported on hosting foreign delegations of jurists and
                       judicial personnel for briefings at the Administrative Office.


              C OMMITTEE ON THE J UDICIAL B RANCH

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it continues to
                       pursue possible avenues for improving judicial compensation and benefits,
                       notwithstanding the constrained budget climate. The Committee also reported
                       that it continues to consider ways to improve judicial-legislative
                       communications. Educating the public, especially the media, on the role of
                       judges and the judiciary in society remains a priority of the Committee.


              C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL C ONDUCT AND D ISABILITY

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that on
                       October 26, 2009, it issued a decision on a petition for review of a circuit
                       judicial council order on a complaint under the Judicial Conduct and
                       Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-364, and that it has under advisement a
                       petition for review of a judicial council order on two complaints under the
                       Act. The Committee also reported that it continues to address courts’
                       inquiries and to develop resources and infrastructure in support of the
                       Committee’s responsibilities.


              C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL R ESOURCES

                       EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

                              In September 1993, the Judicial Conference approved locality pay for
                       the courts to be provided in the same amounts, in the same areas, and at the
                       same time as is approved for the executive branch. This had the effect of
                       imposing a locality pay cap on salaries of circuit executives and Judicial
                       Salary Plan (JSP) positions graded at JSP-16 through JSP-18 at the equivalent


                                                             17

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 16, 2010

                      of level III of the Executive Schedule, which was the locality pay cap for the
                      executive branch Senior Executive Service (SES) (JCUS-SEP 93, p. 50). In
                      2005, when changes to the executive branch salary structure made locality pay
                      caps no longer applicable to the SES, the Conference agreed to approve, as an
                      interim measure, the application of locality pay for unit executives up to the
                      salary of a district judge, to be applied at the request of the chief judge on
                      behalf of the court, as set forth on what have become known as optional pay
                      tables (JCUS-SEP 05, p. 29). Aggregate pay, which includes bonuses and
                      awards on top of basic pay and locality pay, had already been capped at the
                      salary of a district judge (JCUS-SEP 03, p. 30). In 2007, in response to a
                      request to reconsider the pay caps, the Committee authorized the conduct of a
                      comprehensive study of executive compensation. Four proposals that evolved
                      from that study were considered by the Conference and are discussed below.

                              Pay Cap Exception for National Judiciary Awards. Unit executives at
                      or near the aggregate pay cap, which as noted above is the salary of a district
                      judge, are ineligible to receive some or all of the cash payments that
                      accompany national judiciary awards. For those executives, these awards
                      have become largely honorary. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                      Conference approved lifting the current aggregate pay cap for court employees
                      only to allow receipt of the full amount of a national judiciary award.

                               Grading Formulas. The judiciary determines maximum grades for
                      district clerks of court, bankruptcy clerks of court, and chief probation and
                      pretrial services officers through application of grading formulas (also known
                      as court-sizing formulas). The formulas for district and bankruptcy clerks are
                      based on the number of judgeships and authorized work units (AWUs) at a
                      court; the formula for chief probation and pretrial services officers is based
                      solely on the numbers of AWUs. The grades are recalculated annually, which
                      can lead to grade volatility as workload rises and falls. In order to reduce that
                      volatility, the Committee recommended, and the Conference approved, the
                      following revised procedures when a grade reduction for a court unit executive
                      is supported by application of the grading formula:

                      a.       Calculate a three-year average using the data from the current year and
                               from the two previous years;

                      b.       Retain the current grade if the three-year average falls above the
                               respective threshold;




                                                              18

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                              March 16, 2010

                       c.       Retain the current grade for a one-year grace period if the three-year
                                average falls below the respective threshold by less than five percent of
                                the threshold;

                       d.       Downgrade the position at the end of the one-year grace period if the
                                new three-year average remains below the threshold; and

                       e.       Downgrade the position if the original three-year average falls more
                                than five percent below the threshold.

                                Pay Stratification. Noting that there is currently no differentiation in
                       the pay potential for circuit and court unit executives at the JSP-16 through
                       JSP-18 levels, the Committee expressed concern that should the salary of a
                       district judge increase other than through ordinary annual pay adjustments,
                       there could be an uncontrolled upward migration of pay rates for unit
                       executives on the optional pay tables. The Committee therefore
                       recommended, and the Conference approved, the following stratified pay caps
                       for application to the optional pay tables for circuit and court unit executives
                       should the salary of a district judge increase (other than through anticipated
                       annual Employment Cost Index-based pay adjustments), with the
                       understanding that the aggregate pay cap of court employees cannot exceed
                       the salary of a district judge:

                       a.	      EX-I ($196,700 in 2009) as the cap for circuit executive positions and
                                court unit executive positions at JSP-18;

                       b. 	     EX-II ($177,000 in 2009) as the cap for court unit executive positions
                                at JSP-16 and JSP-17; and

                       c. 	     EX-III ($162,900 in 2009) as the cap for court unit executive positions
                                at JSP-15 and below.

                               Annual Leave Accrual. Currently, unit executives only begin to earn
                       eight hours of leave per pay period after they have accrued 15 years of
                       creditable service. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
                       Conference agreed to seek legislation to allow unit executives to accrue eight
                       hours of annual leave per pay period prospectively, regardless of the length of
                       service, similar to what is provided to executives in the executive branch.




                                                               19

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 16, 2010



                      COURT PERSONNEL SYSTEM PROMOTION POLICY

                              In September 2004, the Conference modified the promotion rule for
                      Court Personnel System (CPS) employees to afford court units greater
                      flexibility when determining the salary of employees being promoted to a
                      higher classification level (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 22). Instead of a set rate of six
                      percent over current salary, the Conference allowed court units to establish a
                      local promotion policy that set the increase for a fiscal year at a uniform, unit-
                      wide rate of not less than three percent nor more than six percent. At this
                      session, on recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to give
                      court units even greater latitude by setting at one percent the minimum salary
                      promotion rate, to be applied for a fiscal year at a uniform, unit-wide rate in
                      keeping with existing policy.


                      MODEL EMPLOYMENT DISPUTE RESOLUTION PLAN

                              On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                      approved revisions to the Model Employment Dispute Resolution Plan
                      adopted for the federal judiciary in 1997. Revisions incorporated in the 2010
                      Model Employment Dispute Resolution Plan include (a) specifying procedures
                      for handling claims involving judges; (b) extending the definition of
                      harassment beyond sexual harassment to apply to all types of discrimination;
                      (c) creating a special reporting process for wrongful conduct to bring these
                      matters quickly to management’s attention even outside of the employment
                      dispute resolution process; (d) allowing for summary dismissals throughout
                      the process; and (e) clarifying the provisions regarding confidentiality.


                      RETIRED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER RE-EMPLOYMENT

                              The District of Hawaii requested an exception to the March 2009
                      Conference policy limiting re-employment of a retired law enforcement officer
                      to a single period of a maximum of 18 months (JCUS-MAR 09, p. 26 ).
                      Without the exception, the district would lose its chief and deputy chief
                      probation officers within four months of each other. On recommendation of
                      the Committee, the Conference approved the request and allowed the district
                      to re-employ its deputy chief probation officer for a second 18-month period
                      from November 1, 2010 to April 30, 2012.



                                                              20

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 16, 2010



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it continued its
                       discussion of executive compensation, requesting that the Administrative
                       Office explore several additional options for Committee review, including
                       increasing the number and amount of national judiciary awards, establishing
                       centralized funding to pay the relocation expenses of internal judiciary
                       candidates who are filling circuit and court unit executive positions, and
                       developing through its advisory structure one or more options for measuring
                       executive performance. The Committee also requested that the
                       Administrative Office and the Federal Judicial Center explore together the
                       need to provide additional training opportunities and professional
                       development programs for unit executives.


              C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL S ECURITY

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it discussed the
                       security implications of internet social networking by judiciary employees and
                       expressed support for the efforts of the Committee on Codes of Conduct to
                       develop guidelines and model policies on such internet use for courts to
                       consider. At the request of the Committee, the Administrative Office Director
                       appointed an ad hoc working group to develop and implement strategies to
                       mitigate the misuse and abuse of judges’ names used as domain names on the
                       internet when it is believed that a judge’s security is being compromised.


              C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
              OF THE M AGISTRATE J UDGES S YSTEM

                       SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT REGULATIONS

                               The Judicial Conference’s selection and appointment regulations for
                       magistrate judges require that magistrate judge applicants have actively
                       practiced law for at least five years. The court may consider other legal
                       experience as a substitute for the active practice of law, except that if that
                       other experience is as a law clerk to any judge, credit is limited to two years.
                       This limitation is intended to ensure, among other things, that magistrate judge

                                                             21

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 16, 2010

                      applicants are seasoned and experienced attorneys. However, staff attorney
                      and pro se law clerk experience has not been subject to this limitation. Noting
                      that the duties of staff attorneys and pro se law clerks are similar to the duties
                      of elbow law clerks and could, in fact, be seen as more limited in scope than
                      the elbow law clerk position, the Committee recommended that the Judicial
                      Conference amend Section 1.01(b)(4) of the Regulations of the Judicial
                      Conference of the United States Establishing Standards and Procedures for the
                      Appointment and Reappointment of United States Magistrate Judges to
                      provide that only two years of experience as a staff attorney or pro se law clerk
                      in a court may be used toward meeting the five-year active-practice-of-law
                      requirement. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                      CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                              After consideration of the report of the Committee on the
                      Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of
                      the Director of the Administrative Office, the respective district courts, and
                      the judicial councils of the relevant circuits, the Judicial Conference
                      determined to make the following changes regarding the magistrate judge
                      positions in the District of North Dakota:

                      a.       Redesignate the part-time magistrate judge position at Grand Forks,
                               Devils Lake, or Minnewaukan as Grand Forks;

                      b.       Authorize the part-time magistrate judge position at Grand Forks to
                               exercise adjoining district jurisdiction in the District of Minnesota; and

                      c.       Make no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or
                               arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      The Conference also agreed to make no change in the number, locations,
                      salaries, or arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the following
                      courts: Southern District of New York, Western District of Pennsylvania,
                      Southern District of West Virginia, Eastern District of Louisiana, Northern
                      District of Iowa, District of Alaska, District Court of Guam, District of
                      Hawaii, and Middle District of Alabama.




                                                              22

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 16, 2010



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                       reported that pursuant to the September 2004 Judicial Conference policy
                       regarding the review of magistrate judge position vacancies (JCUS-SEP 04,
                       p. 26), during the period between the Committee’s June 2009 and December
                       2009 meetings, the Committee chair approved filling fourteen full-time
                       magistrate judge position vacancies. At its December 2009 meeting, the full
                       Committee approved filling two additional magistrate judge position
                       vacancies. The Committee also agreed to share with the Ad Hoc Advisory
                       Committee on Judiciary Planning some ideas in response to a draft strategic
                       plan for the federal judiciary circulated by the Ad Hoc Committee.


              C OMMITTEE ON R ULES OF P RACTICE AND P ROCEDURE

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that the
                       Advisory Committee on Civil Rules is sponsoring a major conference at Duke
                       University School of Law in May 2010 to consider the current civil litigation
                       process and whether any changes are needed to the Federal Rules of Civil
                       Procedure to achieve just, cost-effective, and timely disposition of cases. The
                       Advisory Committees on Bankruptcy, Criminal, and Evidence Rules are
                       reviewing comments from the public submitted on amendments proposed in
                       August 2009 to their respective sets of rules. The proposals include a
                       comprehensive restyling of the Federal Rules of Evidence.


              C OMMITTEE ON S PACE AND F ACILITIES

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that it approved a
                       change to the Circuit Rent Budget (CRB) Business Rules to allow more
                       flexibility for “Component C” spending and amended the business rules and
                       CRB Program Manual to reflect the courtroom-sharing policies previously
                       approved by the Judicial Conference for senior and magistrate judges (see
                       JCUS-MAR 09, pp. 14-16; JCUS-SEP 09, pp. 9-11). The Committee also
                       approved amendments to the Asset Management Planning (AMP) Business

                                                             23

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 16, 2010

                      Rules to specify treatment of general building conditions in the facility benefit
                      assessment structure, to reflect the September 2009 Judicial Conference policy
                      on courtroom sharing for magistrate judges, and to provide clarification to
                      current rules.


             F UNDING
                              All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                      funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                      the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                      establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                    Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                    Presiding




                                                             24

