R EPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE J UDICIAL C ONFERENCE
OF THE U NITED S TATES


September 13, 2011


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on September 13, 2011, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                     First Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                 Chief Judge Mark L. Wolf,
                                        District of Massachusetts

                     Second Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs
                                 Chief Judge Carol Bagley Amon,
                                        Eastern District of New York

                     Third Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                 Judge Harvey Bartle III,
                                        Eastern District of Pennsylvania

                     Fourth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.
                                 Judge James P. Jones,
                                        Western District of Virginia

                     Fifth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Edith Hollan Jones
                                 Chief Judge Sarah S. Vance,
                                        Eastern District of Louisiana
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           September 13, 2011



                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alice M. Batchelder
                                           Judge Thomas A. Varlan,
                                                  Eastern District of Tennessee

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook
                                           Chief Judge Richard L. Young,
                                                  Southern District of Indiana

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Rodney W. Sippel,
                                                  Eastern District of Missouri

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alex Kozinski
                                           Judge Robert S. Lasnik,
                                                  Western District of Washington

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe
                                           Judge Robin J. Cauthron,
                                                  Western District of Oklahoma

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel F. Dubina
                                           Judge Myron H. Thompson,
                                                  Middle District of Alabama

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge David Bryan Sentelle
                                           Chief Judge Royce C. Lamberth,
                                                  District of Columbia

                                                               2

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2011



                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Randall R. Rader

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Donald C. Pogue

                              The following Judicial Conference committee chairs attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Julia Smith Gibbons, Michael S. Kanne,
                       Diarmuid F. O’Scannlain, Reena Raggi (incoming chair), Jeffrey S. Sutton,
                       and John Walker, Jr.; District Judges Robert Holmes Bell, Rosemary M.
                       Collyer, Joy Flowers Conti, Claire V. Eagan, Sidney A. Fitzwater, Janet C.
                       Hall, D. Brock Hornby, George H. King, Mark R. Kravitz, J. Frederick Motz,
                       Julie A. Robinson, Lee H. Rosenthal, and George Z. Singal; and Bankruptcy
                       Judge Eugene R. Wedoff. Bankruptcy Judge Rosemary Gambardella and
                       Magistrate Judge Thomas C. Mummert, III, were also in attendance, and
                       Cathy Catterson of the Ninth Circuit represented the circuit executives.

                               James C. Duff, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
                       States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill C. Sayenga,
                       Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General
                       Counsel; Laura C. Minor, Assistant Director, and Wendy Jennis, Deputy
                       Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Cordia
                       A. Strom, Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; and David A. Sellers,
                       Assistant Director, Public Affairs. District Judge Barbara Jacobs Rothstein,
                       Director, and John S. Cooke, Deputy Director, as well as District Judge
                       Jeremy D. Fogel, incoming Director, Federal Judicial Center, and District
                       Judge Patti B. Saris, Chairman, and Judith W. Sheon, Staff Director, United
                       States Sentencing Commission, were in attendance at the session of the
                       Conference, as was Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to the Chief Justice. Scott
                       Harris, Supreme Court Counsel, and the 2011-2012 Supreme Court Fellows
                       also observed the Conference proceedings.

                              Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., addressed the Conference on
                       matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice.
                       Senators Patrick J. Leahy, Amy Klobuchar, and Jeff Sessions, and
                       Representatives Lamar S. Smith, John S. Conyers, Jr., Howard Coble, and
                       Steve Cohen spoke on matters pending in Congress of interest to the
                       Conference.


                                                                3

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 13, 2011



             R EPORTS
                              Mr. Duff reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                      courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge
                      Rothstein spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC)
                      programs, and Judge Saris reported on Sentencing Commission activities.
                      Judge Gibbons, Chair of the Committee on the Budget, presented a special
                      report on the budget outlook.


             E XECUTIVE C OMMITTEE

                      RESOLUTIONS

                              Outgoing chairs. The Judicial Conference approved a
                      recommendation of the Executive Committee to adopt the following
                      resolution recognizing the substantial contributions made by the Judicial
                      Conference committee chairs whose terms of service end in 2011:

                               The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
                               appreciation, respect, and admiration the following judicial
                               officers:

                                       HONORABLE M. MARGARET MCKEOWN
                                           Committee on Codes of Conduct

                                                HONORABLE JANET C. HALL
                                              Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction

                                             HONORABLE BOBBY R. BALDOCK
                                               Committee on Financial Disclosure

                                             HONORABLE GEORGE Z. SINGAL
                                               Committee on Judicial Resources

                                             HONORABLE MICHAEL S. KANNE
                                                Committee on Judicial Security

                                             HONORABLE LEE H. ROSENTHAL
                                           Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure


                                                                4

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 September 13, 2011



                                             HONORABLE MARK R. KRAVITZ
                                              Advisory Committee on Civil Rules

                                           HONORABLE RICHARD C. TALLMAN
                                            Advisory Committee on Criminal Rules

                                Appointed as committee chairs by the Chief Justice of the
                                United States, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role
                                in the administration of the federal court system. These judges
                                served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference
                                committees while, at the same time, continuing to perform their
                                duties as judges in their own courts. They have set a standard
                                of skilled leadership and earned our deep respect and sincere
                                gratitude for their innumerable contributions. We acknowledge
                                with appreciation their commitment and dedicated service to
                                the Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.

                              Director of the Administrative Office. The Judicial Conference
                       approved a recommendation of the Executive Committee to adopt the
                       following resolution to mark the departure of James C. Duff from the position
                       of Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts:

                                The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
                                appreciation, admiration, and respect

                                                       JAMES C. DUFF
                                              Director of the Administrative Office
                                                            2006-2011

                                James C. Duff’s service as the Director of the Administrative
                                Office (AO) over the last five years is the culmination of many
                                years of distinguished service to the federal judiciary. He
                                began his career in the judiciary as an assistant to Chief Justice
                                Warren E. Burger, serving from 1975-1979, while also
                                attending law school. He returned to the judiciary in 1996 to
                                serve for four years as the Administrative Assistant to Chief
                                Justice William H. Rehnquist, and then again in July 2006,
                                when he was appointed Director of the Administrative Office
                                by Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr. As Director of the
                                Administrative Office, Jim Duff has proven to be a tenacious



                                                                5

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 September 13, 2011



                               advocate for the judiciary and for ensuring that the American
                               judicial system maintains its reputation for excellence.

                               Jim Duff devoted his tenure at the Administrative Office to his
                               goal of making the AO the most effective service organization
                               in government. He worked to strengthen the ties between the
                               AO and the courts it serves by creating exchanges between AO
                               and court staff and by ensuring that the courts have a strong
                               voice on the AO’s advisory councils and groups. He focused
                               on teamwork and collaboration both within the AO and
                               between the AO and the agencies with which it partners to
                               administer the nation’s judicial system. Under his leadership,
                               the judiciary forged strong working relationships with the
                               General Services Administration and the United States
                               Marshals Service to ensure that the judiciary had adequate
                               facilities to carry out its mission and to secure the safety of the
                               judicial community.

                               Jim Duff has also been a powerful voice for the judiciary
                               before Congress. By partnering strong advocacy for the
                               judiciary’s budgetary and legislative needs with equally strong
                               emphasis on good stewardship in managing the judiciary’s
                               resources, he has made sure that the judiciary’s requests to
                               Congress are heard. He has also been a champion for
                               maintaining the independence of the Third Branch and
                               preserving the unique aspects of service in the federal judiciary
                               that guarantee its ability to administer fair and impartial justice.
                               As a key part of this effort, he has worked tirelessly to obtain
                               fair compensation for members of the judiciary so that the
                               courts can continue to attract the highest caliber of judges and
                               staff. As a further part of this effort, he has worked to
                               strengthen the judiciary’s internal oversight program to ensure
                               the public’s continued confidence in the integrity of the
                               judiciary. Under his leadership, the Committee on the
                               Administrative Office was renamed the Committee on Audits
                               and Administrative Office Accountability and restructured to
                               focus on the significant areas of audit, review, and investigative
                               assistance.

                               Jim Duff has led the Administrative Office during a period of
                               great challenges – workload and security risks in the border

                                                                6

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 13, 2011



                                courts, mammoth bankruptcy cases in the wake of the
                                2008-2009 financial crisis, and an increasingly austere fiscal
                                environment. His great gift as a leader is that he has faced
                                these challenges with grace and optimism, as a consensus
                                builder, a mediator, and a motivator. His warm personal
                                qualities, including his humility, approachability, and sense of
                                humor make working with Jim a true pleasure. His sharp
                                intellect, excellent judgment, and devotion to cause make
                                working with him an honor.

                                The Judicial Conference expresses its great appreciation to Jim
                                Duff for his strong leadership and dedicated service and wishes
                                the best to him and his family in his new undertakings.


                       PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE

                               The Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental
                       Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1999, Public Law No. 105-277, as
                       amended by Public Law No. 106-58, requires the judiciary to provide
                       reimbursement for up to one half of the cost of professional liability insurance
                       to certain groups within the judiciary, including supervisors and managers as
                       authorized by the Judicial Conference. In September 1999, the Conference
                       delegated authority to court unit executives and federal public defenders to
                       designate eligible positions in their respective units, consistent with
                       Conference guidelines (JCUS-SEP 99, pp. 61-62, 66-67). At this session, the
                       Conference delegated to the Director of the Administrative Office of the
                       United States Courts, the Director of the Federal Judicial Center, and the
                       Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission the authority to designate
                       supervisors and managers of their respective agencies with regard to eligibility
                       for professional liability insurance reimbursement, and provided that the
                       authority may be re-delegated to executives or human resources officials of the
                       respective judicial branch agencies.


                       JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY ACT

                               The Department of Justice has proposed legislation that would loosen
                       the confidentiality requirements of the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act so
                       that information developed in complaint proceedings under the Act could be
                       disclosed to law enforcement officials if it relates to a potential criminal

                                                                7

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2011



                      offense. In July 2011, the Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability
                      endorsed a recommendation that the Conference support the proposal if it
                      were modified to include protections drawn from the concept of a “reporter’s
                      privilege.” Because the legislation was moving quickly through Congress,
                      the Executive Committee was asked to consider the matter. On
                      recommendation of the Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability, the
                      Executive Committee adopted the following position on behalf of the
                      Conference:

                               The Judicial Conference supports amending the confidentiality
                               provisions of the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act to
                               recognize that the judiciary controls the disclosure of
                               information developed in connection with proceedings under
                               the Act (“Act information”) and to permit the disclosure of Act
                               information to a law enforcement agency (a) as pertaining only
                               to possible criminal activity and (b) subject to requirements
                               paralleling those described in the Department of Justice’s
                               “Policy with regard to issuance of subpoenas to members of the
                               news media,” 28 C.F.R. § 50.10. Those requirements include
                               that (1) there must be a compelling need for the Act
                               information for the investigation of a crime reasonably believed
                               to have occurred; (2) the substance of the Act information must
                               be unavailable from other sources; (3) the requester must give
                               reasonable and timely notice of the request and negotiate with
                               the judiciary over the disclosure’s scope, timing, and manner;
                               (4) the Attorney General of the United States or of the
                               applicable state must give permission for the request; and
                               (5) the requester must take effective precautions to prevent the
                               disclosed Act information from being disseminated to
                               unauthorized persons or for improper purposes.


                      FISCAL YEAR 2012 INTERIM FINANCIAL PLANS

                              Pending final congressional action on the judiciary’s appropriations for
                      the 2012 fiscal year, the Executive Committee approved fiscal year 2012
                      interim financial plans for the Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services,
                      Court Security, and Fees of Jurors and Commissioners accounts. The plans
                      reflect many “quick hit” cost-containment items, suggested by Conference
                      committees and others, that will significantly reduce fiscal year 2012
                      requirements. In approving the interim plan for the Salaries and Expenses

                                                              8

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                               September 13, 2011


                       account, the Committee also endorsed a strategy for distributing court
                       allotments among the court programs. In addition, the Committee affirmed
                       that its approval of the interim plans included a determination not to allow
                       step increases and routine promotions, and to allow other promotions only in
                       extraordinary circumstances with approval of the Administrative Office
                       Director, for all circuit unit, court, chambers, and defender organization staff.


                       MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                                The Executive Committee —

                       •	       On recommendation of the Committee on Rules of Practice and
                                Procedure and on behalf of the Conference, with regard to a proposed
                                package of style amendments to the Federal Rules of Evidence
                                approved by the Conference in September 2010 and pending before the
                                Supreme Court, restored certain language to Rule 408(a)(1) to avoid a
                                risk that the amendment might be interpreted as substantive, and to
                                Rule 804(b)(4) for clarity and completeness;

                       •        Approved final fiscal year 2011 financial plans for the Salaries and
                                Expenses, Defender Services, Court Security, and Fees of Jurors and
                                Commissioners accounts, as well as an allotment distribution strategy
                                for the Salaries and Expenses account;

                       •        Revised the policy related to the locations for Judicial Conference
                                committee meetings to provide that meetings should be held only in
                                hub cities and that committees that meet semi-annually must hold one
                                of those meetings in Washington, D.C.;

                       •        Agreed to ask every circuit to ensure that they have an up-to-date
                                written policy in place for providing staff to senior judges and that the
                                policy is being enforced; and

                       •        Approved on behalf of the Conference resolutions in honor of Judge
                                Barbara Jacobs Rothstein, who is ending her eight-year tenure as
                                Director of the Federal Judicial Center, and William R. Burchill, Jr.,
                                who has served the judiciary for 38 years and is retiring from his
                                position as Administrative Office Associate Director and General
                                Counsel.



                                                                9
Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2011



             C OMMITTEE ON A UDITS AND
             A DMINISTRATIVE O FFICE A CCOUNTABILITY

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                      reported that it received detailed briefings from three of the judiciary’s
                      independent audit firms regarding the following: cyclical financial audits of
                      the courts and federal defender offices, audits of community defender
                      organization grantees, audits of Chapter 7 bankruptcy trustees in bankruptcy
                      administrator districts, and audits of debtors in Chapter 7 and Chapter 11
                      filings in bankruptcy administrator districts. The Committee considered ways
                      in which the judiciary can ensure that audit issues are addressed and resolved
                      in a timely manner, and it emphasized the importance of appropriate actions
                      by court unit executives, chief judges and circuit judicial councils to address
                      audit findings and recommendations. The Committee also asked the AO to
                      focus on its follow-up efforts and to provide assistance to the courts and
                      federal defender offices when needed. The Committee passed a resolution
                      honoring the service of AO Director James C. Duff.


             C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
             OF THE B ANKRUPTCY S YSTEM

                      OFFICIAL DUTY STATIONS

                              On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, and in accordance
                      with 28 U.S.C. 152(b)(1), the Conference took the following actions with
                      regard to official duty stations of bankruptcy judges:

                      a.       Approved a request from the Central District of California and the
                               Ninth Circuit Judicial Council to designate Los Angeles as the official
                               duty station for a vacant bankruptcy judgeship in that district; and

                      b.       Approved a request from the District of South Carolina and the Fourth
                               Circuit Judicial Council to transfer the official duty station for Chief
                               Judge John E. Waites from Columbia to Charleston.




                                                              10

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2011




                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                       reported that it is exploring ways to more effectively use existing bankruptcy
                       judicial resources to address severe judicial workload pressures occurring in
                       several districts. To assist the judiciary in weathering the projected budgetary
                       shortfall, the Committee examined multiple short- and long-term cost-
                       containment ideas, and provided its views to the Budget Committee. In
                       addition, the Committee informed the Committee on Court Administration
                       and Case Management that it (a) endorses, with several qualifications,
                       recommendations for certain inflationary fee increases; (b) recommends that
                       the two committees work together, with assistance from the Federal Judicial
                       Center, to study the impact and feasibility of implementing additional fees for
                       claims transfers in bankruptcy cases and for filing publicly traded and/or mega
                       cases; and (c) recommends approval of a proposed policy on courtroom
                       sharing in the bankruptcy courts. The Committee also recommended that the
                       Director approve certain reports required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
                       Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, Public Law No. 111-203.


              C OMMITTEE ON THE B UDGET

                       FISCAL YEAR 2013 BUDGET REQUEST
                               .
                               Noting the limited funding that Congress is likely to have available in
                       2013 and after considering the funding levels proposed by the program
                       committees, the Committee on the Budget recommended to the Judicial
                       Conference a fiscal year 2013 budget request that is 3.3 percent over assumed
                       fiscal year 2012 appropriations. This request is $118.6 million below the
                       funding requested by the program committees. The Conference approved the
                       budget request subject to amendments necessary as a result of
                       (a) new legislation, (b) actions of the Judicial Conference, or (c) any other
                       reason the Executive Committee considers necessary and appropriate.


                       BUDGET DECENTRALIZATION RULES

                              Under existing budget decentralization rules, courts can reprogram
                       funds among court operating funds within their own units, among court units
                       within a judicial district, and among circuit and court of appeals units within a

                                                              11

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2011


                      judicial circuit, which allows these units to share administrative services and
                      maximize resource utilization. However the rules do not permit
                      reprogramming across districts or circuits or even between appellate and
                      district units within a circuit. To achieve additional efficiencies, the
                      Committee recommended expansion of reprogramming authority so that local
                      funds can be reprogrammed among court units regardless of type,
                      geographical location, or judicial district or circuit for voluntary shared
                      services arrangements. The new reprogramming authority would be subject to
                      the approval of the Administrative Office, with semi-annual reports provided
                      to the Budget Committee. The Conference approved the Committee’s
                      recommendation.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Budget reported that it reviewed over 100
                      cost-containment ideas that had been generated through the Administrative
                      Office’s court advisory process as well as ideas that various Judicial
                      Conference committees are pursuing. The Committee participated in a
                      “summit” of committee chairs held on September 12, 2011 to discuss the
                      significant cost-containment ideas the judiciary must consider as it faces a
                      serious budget crisis. In addition, the Committee discussed efforts to focus its
                      congressional outreach program on key members of the judiciary’s
                      appropriations subcommittees and to provide court-specific impacts of the
                      fiscal year 2012 House of Representatives mark to judges and members of
                      Congress.


             C OMMITTEE ON C ODES OF C ONDUCT

                      MODEL FORMS FOR WAIVER 

                      OF JUDICIAL DISQUALIFICATION


                              On recommendation of the Committee on Codes of Conduct, the
                      Judicial Conference approved three versions of a Model Form for Waiver of
                      Judicial Disqualification: one for civil pro se cases, one for other civil cases,
                      and one for criminal cases. These forms replace a form originally adopted in
                      September 1985, commonly known as the “remittal” form, which was used by
                      judges to request a waiver of disqualification under Canon 3D of the Code of
                      Conduct for United States Judges. The Conference delegated to the


                                                             12

Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 13, 2011


                       Committee the authority to make technical, conforming, and non-controversial
                       changes to the forms, as necessary.


                       MODEL CONFIDENTIALITY STATEMENT

                               The Model Confidentiality Statement (Form AO-306) is intended for
                       use by courts and judges to promote awareness among judicial employees of
                       their confidentiality obligations under Canon 3D of the Code of Conduct for
                       Judicial Employees. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
                       Conference approved revisions to the Model Confidentiality Statement to
                       reflect new developments, such as the use by judicial employees of electronic
                       social media, and delegated to the Committee on Codes of Conduct the
                       authority to make technical, conforming, and non-controversial changes, as
                       necessary.


                       FORM FOR APPROVAL OF COMPENSATED TEACHING

                               Judges who wish to engage in compensated teaching are required to
                       obtain approval from their circuit chief judge, using Form AO-304,
                       Application for Approval of Compensated Teaching Activities. On
                       recommendation of the Committee, the Conference approved a revised Form
                       AO-304 to clarify that a judge may be compensated for time spent grading
                       examinations and term papers. The Conference also delegated to the
                       Committee on Codes of Conduct the authority to make technical, conforming,
                       and non-controversial changes to the form, as necessary.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in March 2011, the Committee received 19
                       new written inquiries and issued 19 written advisory responses. During this
                       period, the average response time for requests was 13 days. In addition, the
                       Committee chair responded to 135 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                       members responded to 99 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                       responded to 381 informal inquiries.




                                                            13

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                               September 13, 2011



             C OMMITTEE ON C OURT A DMINISTRATION
             AND C ASE M ANAGEMENT

                      FEES

                              Miscellaneous Fees. The Judicial Conference prescribes
                      miscellaneous fees for the courts of appeals, district courts, United States
                      Court of Federal Claims, bankruptcy courts, and Judicial Panel on
                      Multidistrict Litigation, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1913, 1914, 1926, 1930, and
                      1932, respectively. On recommendation of the Court Administration and Case
                      Management Committee, the Conference determined to raise many of these
                      fees to account for inflation, as set forth below, effective November 1, 2011.
                      These fees have not been adjusted for inflation since 2003.

                                        Court of Appeals Miscellaneous Fee Schedule
                       Item	                                  Current Fee        New Fee
                       2. Record Search	                      $26                $30
                       3. Certification	                      $9                 $11
                       5. Audio Recording                     $26	               $30
                       6. Record Reproduction                 $71	               $83
                       7. Record Retrieval                    $45	               $53
                       8. Returned Check Fee                  $45	               $53
                       13. Attorney Admission Fee	      $150                     $176
                           Certificate of Good Standing $15                      $18

                                            District Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule
                         Item	                                 Current Fee        New Fee
                         1. Document Filing/Indexing           $39	               $46
                         2. Record Search	                     $26                $30
                         3. Certification	                     $9                 $11
                         5. Reproduction of Proceedings        $26	               $30
                         6. Microfiche	                        $5                 $6

                                                              14

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                          September 13, 2011



                          7. Record Retrieval                 $45	               $53
                          8. Returned Check Fee               $45	               $53

                          9. Misdemeanor Appeal               $32	               $37
                          10. Attorney Admission Fee          $150               $176
                             Certificate of Good Standing     $15                $18
                          13. Cuban Liberation Civil	         $5431              $6355
                              Filing Fee

                                            Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule
                           Item	                               Current Fee        New Fee
                           2. Certification 	                  $9                 $11

                              Exemplification                  $18                $21

                           3. Audio Recording                  $26	               $30
                           4. Amended Bankruptcy             	 $26                $30

                              Schedules

                           5. Record Search                    $26	               $30
                           6. Adversary Proceeding Fee         $250	              $293
                           7. Document Filing/Indexing         $39	               $46
                           8. Title 11 Administrative Fee      $39	               $46
                           12. Record Retrieval Fee            $45	               $53
                           13. Returned Check Fee              $45	               $53
                           14. Notice of Appeal Fee            $250	              $293
                           19. Lift/Stay Fee	                  $150               $176

                             United States Court of Federal Claims Miscellaneous Fee Schedule
                          Item	                                 Current Fee        New Fee
                          3. Certification	                     $9                 $11
                          4. Attorney Admission Fee	          $150                 $176
                             Certificate of Good Standing      $15                 $18

                                                               15

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                             September 13, 2011



                         5. Sale of Monthly Listing of      	 $19                     $22

                            Court Orders and Opinions

                         7. Returned Check Fee                $45	                    $53
                         9. Audio Recording                   $26	                    $30
                         10. Document Filing/Indexing         $39	                    $46
                         11. Record Retrieval Fee             $45	                    $53

                          Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation Miscellaneous Fee Schedule
                         Item	                               Current Fee               New Fee
                         1. Record Search                    $26	                      $30
                         2. Certification                    $9	                       $11
                         4. Record Retrieval Fee             $45	                      $53
                         5. Returned Check Fee               $45	                      $53

                               Electronic Public Access Fees. Pursuant to statute and Judicial
                       Conference policy, the electronic public access (EPA) fee is set to be
                       commensurate with the costs of providing existing services and developing
                       enhanced services. Noting that the current fee has not increased since 2005
                       and that for the past three fiscal years the EPA program’s obligations have
                       exceeded its revenue, the Committee recommended that the EPA fee be
                       increased from $.08 to $.10 per page. The Committee also recommended that
                       the current waiver of fees of $10 or less in a quarterly billing cycle be changed
                       to $15 or less per quarter so that 75 to 80 percent of all users would still
                       receive fee waivers. Finally, in recognition of the current fiscal austerity for
                       government agencies, the Committee recommended that the fee increase be
                       suspended for local, state, and federal and government entities for a period of
                       three years. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                       COURTROOM SHARING

                               Based on a comprehensive study of district courtroom usage
                       conducted by the FJC at the Committee’s request, the Judicial Conference
                       adopted courtroom sharing policies for senior district judges and magistrate
                       judges in new courthouse and/or courtroom construction (JCUS-SEP 08,

                                                              16

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                    September 13, 2011


                        pp. 10-11; JCUS-MAR 09, pp. 14-16; JCUS-SEP 09, pp. 9-11). It also asked
                        the Committee to study the usage of bankruptcy courtrooms, and if usage
                        levels so indicated, to develop an appropriate sharing policy for bankruptcy
                        courtrooms (JCUS-SEP 08, pp. 10-11). At this session, following completion
                        of the bankruptcy study, conducted for the Committee by the FJC, the Court
                        Administration and Case Management Committee in consultation with the
                        Bankruptcy and Space and Facilities Committees recommended a courtroom
                        sharing policy for bankruptcy judges in new courthouse and courtroom
                        construction, for inclusion in the U.S. Courts Design Guide. The Conference
                        approved the policy as follows:

                           SHARING POLICY FOR BANKRUPTCY JUDGES IN NEW COURTHOUSE AND

                                            COURTROOM CONSTRUCTION


                                 New courtrooms for bankruptcy judges will be provided as
                                 follows:

                                 a.	        In court facilities with one or two bankruptcy judges,
                                            one courtroom will be provided for each bankruptcy
                                            judge.

                                 b.	        In court facilities with three or more bankruptcy judges,
                                            one courtroom will be provided for every two
                                            bankruptcy judges. In court facilities where the
                                            application of this formula will result in a fraction (i.e.,
                                            those with an odd number of bankruptcy judges), the
                                            number of courtrooms allocated will remain at the next
                                            lower whole number. In addition, one courtroom will
                                            be provided for emergency matters, such as Chapter 11
                                            first-day hearings.

                                 Exemption Policy

                                 In the event this sharing arrangement would cause substantial
                                 difficulty in the secure, effective and efficient disposition of
                                 cases, a court, as a whole, with the approval of its circuit
                                 judicial council, may seek an individual exemption to this
                                 sharing policy from the Judicial Conference’s Space and
                                 Facilities Committee. Such exemptions should be considered
                                 the exception and not the rule.



                                                                    17

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  September 13, 2011


                                In order to be considered for an exemption, a court must first
                                show that the bankruptcy judge’s courtroom is in use over 75
                                percent of the work day for case-related purposes. Thereafter, a
                                court should demonstrate that deviation from the basic sharing
                                policy is necessary, based on the following:

                                a.         An assessment of the number and type of courtroom
                                           events anticipated to be handled by the bankruptcy
                                           judge that would indicate that sharing a courtroom
                                           would pose a significant burden on the secure, effective
                                           and efficient management of that judge’s docket.

                                b.         An assessment of the current complement of
                                           courtrooms and their projected use in the facility and
                                           throughout the district, to reaffirm the necessity of
                                           constructing an additional courtroom.

                                c.         Whether a special proceedings, visiting judge, or other
                                           courtroom is available for the bankruptcy judge’s use in
                                           the facility.

                                Many bankruptcy judges are housed in leased facilities where
                                security concerns may arise due to the configuration of the
                                space. Because of this unique situation, an alternative
                                exemption to the sharing policy, notwithstanding the
                                exemption requirements of the previous paragraph, may be
                                considered for bankruptcy judges in leased facilities based on
                                an assessment of the security of a bankruptcy judge’s access
                                from chambers to a shared courtroom.


                       RECORDS DISPOSITION SCHEDULES

                               Electronic records. The district court records disposition schedule for
                       civil and criminal case files provides for the transfer of electronic records to
                       the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) three years after
                       case closing. Noting that this is an inadequate amount of time to maintain the
                       records at the court and that further study on disposition of electronic records
                       was needed, the Committee recommended that the three-year transfer
                       reference be removed from the schedule for civil and criminal case files.
                       Once removed, electronic records will be considered unscheduled and can not

                                                                  18

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2011


                        be disposed of until a new disposition schedule is adopted. The Conference
                        approved the Committee’s recommendation, and the schedule will be
                        transmitted to NARA for acceptance of the change.

                                Criminal cases. In March 2011, the Judicial Conference approved a
                        revised district court records disposition schedule for criminal cases that, like
                        the schedule for civil cases, sets retention periods largely by case type (JCUS­
                        MAR 11, p. 10). NARA published this proposed schedule for public
                        comment. On recommendation of the Committee, which considered the
                        public comments, the Judicial Conference approved amending the disposition
                        schedule for criminal case files to designate additional non-trial case types –
                        those pertaining to embezzlement, fraud, or bribery by a public official – as
                        permanent. The schedule will be transmitted to NARA for acceptance of the
                        change.

                                Bankruptcy cases. Similarly, amendments to the bankruptcy court
                        records disposition schedule approved by the Conference in March 2011 were
                        published by NARA for public comment. After consideration of those
                        comments, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference approve
                        amending the schedule to classify as permanent a sample of 2.5 percent of
                        non-trial bankruptcy cases1 and 2.5 percent of temporary adversary
                        proceedings cases retired by each district each year. The amendments would
                        also reduce the retention period for temporary non-trial adversary proceedings
                        cases from 20 to 15 years after case closing. The Conference approved the
                        Committee’s recommendation, and the schedule will be transmitted to NARA
                        for acceptance of the change.


                        PACER ACCESS TO CERTAIN BANKRUPTCY FILINGS

                                In September 2010, the Judicial Conference adopted a policy limiting
                        public electronic access to bankruptcy records filed before December 1, 2003
                        that had been closed for more than one year. The policy was intended to
                        prevent the dissemination of personal information that might be contained in
                        documents that were filed before the judiciary’s privacy policy for bankruptcy
                        cases was fully implemented. Under the September 2010 policy, the public
                        could access docket sheets through PACER for these older cases, but full

              1
               This would replace a provision in the existing schedule that designates as permanent
              25 percent of non-trial bankruptcy cases retired by nine judicial districts, selected each
              year on a rotational basis.

                                                               19

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                    September 13, 2011


                       documents would be available only at clerks’ offices (JCUS-SEP 10, pp.
                       12-13). At this session, on recommendation of the Committee, the
                       Conference adopted an exception to that policy for counsel or parties who are
                       developing potential class actions, as follows:

                                Access may be granted pursuant to a judicial finding that such
                                access is necessary for determining class member certification,
                                subject to the following limitations to be set forth in the judge’s
                                order:

                                a.          Access is limited to a particular identified list of cases
                                            or a specified universe of cases (e.g., lift stay motions
                                            filed by a specified lender in a limited period of time);

                                b.          Time limitations on the period of access (corresponding
                                            to the scope and number of potential cases involved);

                                c.          Inclusion of a verified statement of counsel that access
                                            would be solely for the purpose of determining class
                                            member status and that counsel is aware that
                                            unauthorized use is prohibited and may result in
                                            sanctions; and

                                d.          Any other conditions, limitations, or direction that the
                                            judge deems necessary under the specific circumstances
                                            of the request.


                       SEALING AN ENTIRE CIVIL CASE FILE

                               On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
                       Case Management, in consultation with the Committee on Rules of Practice
                       and Procedure, the Judicial Conference adopted the following standards for
                       sealing an entire civil case:

                                An entire civil case file should only be sealed consistent with
                                the following criteria:

                                a.	         Sealing the entire civil case file is required by statute or
                                            rule or justified by a showing of extraordinary
                                            circumstances and the absence of narrower feasible and

                                                                    20

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   September 13, 2011


                                           effective alternatives (such as sealing discrete
                                           documents or redacting information), so that sealing an
                                           entire case file is a last resort;

                                 b.        A judge makes or promptly reviews the decision to seal
                                           a civil case;

                                 c.        Any order sealing a civil case contains findings
                                           justifying the sealing of the entire case, unless the case
                                           is required to be sealed by statute or rule; and

                                 d.        The seal is lifted when the reason for sealing has ended.


                        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                        reported that it devoted a significant amount of its June 2011 meeting to
                        cost-containment initiatives for fiscal year 2012 and beyond, and considered
                        more than 40 different ideas and proposals. The Committee also discussed
                        several policy issues related to the development of the Next Generation
                        CM/ECF system to ensure that the system’s requirements are synchronized
                        across various court units and court types. The Committee endorsed 14 courts
                        to participate in the pilot project on cameras in the courtroom, which began on
                        July 18, 2011 and selected 14 courts to participate in a 10-year, statutorily
                        required pilot project regarding the assignment of patent cases in U.S. district
                        courts, to begin on September 19, 2011.


              C OMMITTEE ON C RIMINAL L AW

                       STANDARD CONDITIONS OF PROBATION
                       AND SUPERVISED RELEASE

                                A judgment in a criminal case as well as other national forms contains a
                       set of standard conditions that are automatically imposed in probation and
                       supervised release sentences, including one condition that requires offenders to
                       submit a written report to the probation officer within the first five days of each
                       month. However, such reports may not be necessary in all cases because the
                       information is available from other means, and in those cases in which reports
                       are needed, spreading out the submission dates would provide officers with

                                                                   21

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2011


                      greater flexibility to manage their caseloads. Noting this, the Committee
                      recommended that the condition be amended in national forms (AO forms 7A,
                      7A-S, 245, 245B-D, 245I and 246) to state that the defendant shall report to the
                      probation officer in a manner and frequency directed by the court or probation
                      officer. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                      RESEARCH AND DATA SHARING

                              The Administrative Office collects statistical and other information
                      concerning the work of probation officers pursuant to statute and Judicial
                      Conference policy. Criminal justice researchers frequently request this
                      information, as do executive branch agencies such as the Bureau of Prisons.
                      On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference authorized the Director
                      of the AO to adopt proposed regulations governing the disclosure of federal
                      probation system data to outside entities that establish procedures for handling
                      requests for such data, including factors to consider in evaluating the merits of
                      a request and conditions to be imposed to ensure the continued confidentiality
                      of information released.


                      SUPERVISION OF CONDITIONALLY RELEASED
                      SEXUALLY DANGEROUS PERSONS

                               The Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference seek
                      legislation that would amend 18 U.S.C. § 3154 (Functions and powers relating
                      to pretrial services) and § 3603 (Duties of probation officers) to specifically
                      authorize probation and pretrial services officers to supervise sexually
                      dangerous persons who have been conditionally released following a period of
                      civil commitment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 4248. While §§ 3154 and 3603 both
                      contain a general provision authorizing officers to perform other duties as
                      assigned by the courts, providing explicit authorization will remove any
                      ambiguity about an officer’s role and allow for the development of
                      standardized policies and procedures specifically designed for this population.
                      The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.




                                                             22

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2011




                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it reviewed and
                       endorsed a new sex offender management procedures manual for probation and
                       pretrial services officers. The manual provides detailed instructions on how
                       officers should investigate and supervise persons charged with or convicted of
                       a sex offense. The Committee also considered the U.S. Sentencing
                       Commission’s proposed amendments to the sentencing guidelines manual and
                       submitted testimony supporting the Commission’s proposal to apply
                       retroactively the amendments to the drug quantity table that implement the Fair
                       Sentencing Act of 2010. In addition, the Committee discussed and submitted
                       recommendations on various cost-containment proposals under consideration
                       for fiscal years 2012 and 2013.


              C OMMITTEE ON D EFENDER S ERVICES

                       CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT GUIDELINES

                               The Committee on Defender Services recommended revisions to
                       chapters 2 and 3 of the Criminal Justice Act Guidelines (Guide to Judiciary
                       Policy, Vol. 7A) to provide principles and procedures on the proration of
                       claims by attorneys and other service providers and on the billing of
                       interpreting services. The Judicial Conference approved the recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Defender Services reviewed the status of its
                       long-range cost-containment initiatives (including the recently completed
                       circuit case-budgeting pilot project and the ongoing federal defender
                       organization staffing study) and received a report on the shorter-term
                       cost-reduction efforts undertaken over the past six months by strategic planning
                       groups and by program administrators. The Committee reviewed additional
                       short- and longer-term cost-containment ideas that were suggested for its
                       consideration and identified possible new areas to explore. It approved a
                       reduced training plan for FY 2012, which is limited to the FY 2010
                       Committee-authorized level.



                                                             23

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2011



             C OMMITTEE ON F EDERAL -S TATE J URISDICTION

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it was
                      updated on the progress of patent reform legislation and discussed
                      jurisdictional provisions in the proposed legislation. The Committee also
                      considered a proposal to amend 28 U.S.C. § 1447(d) to provide for a right of
                      appeal from any order remanding an action to state court and determined not to
                      support a change to existing law. The Committee received a report on
                      discussions involving the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, the Federal
                      Judicial Center, the Conference of Chief Justices, and the National Center for
                      State Courts concerning means of promoting cooperation between federal and
                      state judges presiding over related cases filed in multiple jurisdictions.


             C OMMITTEE ON F INANCIAL D ISCLOSURE

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that on March 29,
                      2011, it launched the Financial Disclosure Online Reporting System (FiDO).
                      This transition from paper to an exclusively electronic format should
                      significantly reduce judiciary expenses related to the printing, mailing,
                      processing, and records management of financial disclosure reports. As of July
                      8, 2011, the Committee had received 3,990 financial disclosure reports and
                      certifications for calendar year 2010, including 1,246 reports and certifications
                      from Supreme Court justices, Article III judges, and judicial officers of special
                      courts; 327 reports from bankruptcy judges; 534 reports from magistrate
                      judges; and 1,883 reports from judicial employees.


              C OMMITTEE ON INFORMATION T ECHNOLOGY

                      LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

                             Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612 and on recommendation of the Committee
                      on Information Technology, the Judicial Conference approved the fiscal year
                      2012 update to the Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the


                                                             24

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2011


                       Federal Judiciary. Funds for the judiciary’s information technology program
                       will be spent in accordance with this plan.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Information Technology reported that it endorsed
                       the Judiciary Information Security Framework, which provides a high-level
                       approach to information security risk management, and strongly encourages its
                       use by all courts. The Committee concurred in the recommendation of the
                       Committee on Court Administration and Case Management to raise the
                       judiciary’s electronic public access user fee (see “Miscellaneous Fees, “ p. 16).
                       The Committee also discussed a number of initiatives that both strengthen the
                       judiciary’s information technology program and promote cost containment,
                       such as the national telephone service on the judiciary’s new communications
                       network.


             C OMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT A SSIGNMENTS

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 117
                       intercircuit assignments were undertaken by 90 Article III judges from January
                       1, 2011, to June 30, 2011. During this time, the Committee continued to
                       disseminate information about intercircuit assignments and aided courts
                       requesting assistance by identifying and obtaining the assistance of judges
                       willing to take assignments.


              C OMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL J UDICIAL R ELATIONS

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                       involvement in rule of law and judicial reform programs throughout the world.
                       The Committee also reported on its continued participation in the rule of law
                       component of the legislative branch’s Open World Program for jurists from
                       Russia, Ukraine, Georgia, Kazakhstan, and Moldova. The Committee received
                       briefings about international rule of law activities involving federal public


                                                              25

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2011


                      defenders, U.S. court administrators, the Federal Judicial Center, the U.S.
                      Department of State, officials from several embassies, the U.S. Department of
                      Justice, the U.S. Agency for International Development, the U.S. Patent and
                      Trademark Office, the World Bank, and the International Association of
                      Judges. In addition, the Committee reported on foreign delegations of jurists
                      and judicial personnel briefed at the Administrative Office.


             C OMMITTEE ON THE J UDICIAL B RANCH

                      JUDGES’ TRAVEL REGULATIONS

                              Senior Judges on National Courts. The Committee on the Judicial
                      Branch recommended that the Judicial Conference amend section
                      220.30.10(g)(3)(B) of the Travel Regulations for United States Justices and
                      Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy (Guide), Vol. 19, to provide that if a senior
                      judge is commissioned to a court of national jurisdiction and the judge intends
                      to travel a distance of more than 75 miles from his or her residence to hold
                      court or to transact official business for that court and to claim reimbursement
                      for any expenses associated with that travel, such travel must be authorized by
                      the chief judge of the court. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
                      recommendation.
                              .

                              Senior Judges’ Commuting-Type Expenses. To make consistent certain
                      travel authorization procedures for senior judges, the Committee
                      recommended, and the Conference approved, an amendment to section
                      220.30.10(g)(3)(A) of the judges’ travel regulations, Guide, Vol. 19, to require
                      the authorization of the circuit judicial council rather than the chief circuit
                      judge when a senior judge relocates his or her residence outside the district or
                      circuit of the judge’s original commission and intends to seek reimbursement
                      for travel back to the court for official business.

                              Actual Expense Reimbursement for Meals. On recommendation of the
                      Committee and after discussion, the Judicial Conference approved amendments
                      to sections 250.20.20, 250.20.30, 250.20.50, 250.20.60, and 250.40.20 of the
                      judges’ travel regulations, Guide, Vol. 19, to limit judges’ actual expense
                      reimbursement for meals in connection with official travel, and provided that
                      the limits will be subject to annual and automatic adjustment for inflation in the
                      same manner as the judges’ alternative maximum subsistence allowance.




                                                             26

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2011




                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it discussed in
                       detail the problem of the recruitment and retention of federal judges. Salary
                       stagnation and salary inversion continue to threaten the federal judiciary’s
                       ability to recruit and retain judges. The Committee also reported that it is
                       organizing a program with the Freedom Forum and its First Amendment Center
                       that will bring together a small group of judges and journalism educators to
                       support continued and enhanced education on the coverage of the courts in
                       journalism schools.


              C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL C ONDUCT AND D ISABILITY

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that it
                       asked the Executive Committee to act on behalf of the Conference with regard
                       to pending legislation proposed by the Department of Justice that would loosen
                       the confidentiality requirements of the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act so
                       that information developed in proceedings under the Act could be disclosed to
                       law enforcement officers if it related to a potential criminal offense (see supra,
                       “Judicial Conduct and Disability Act,” pp. 7-8).


              C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL R ESOURCES

                       EXECUTIVE GRADING PROCESS

                               Court-sizing formulas are used to determine the appropriate grades and
                       salaries of district and bankruptcy clerks of court and chief probation and
                       pretrial services officers. On recommendation of the Committee on Judicial
                       Resources, the Conference agreed to approve a new grading process for
                       determining the target grades for these executives. The new executive grading
                       process consists of two steps: a) applying a formula that includes a constant
                       factor for core competencies that accounts for 70 percent of the formula and




                                                              27

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2011


                      weighted factors that account for 30 percent of the formula;2 and b) assigning
                      target grades for these executive positions in Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) grades
                      16, 17, and 18, using the 2011 distribution of JSP target grades.


                      SAVED PAY

                              The saved pay policy provides salary protection to court employees
                      downgraded through no fault of their own, e.g., when a chambers staff member
                      takes a lower graded position within the judiciary as result of the death of a
                      federal judge. The employee receives the same rate of basic pay that was
                      payable immediately before the reduction to the lower grade or classification
                      level, 50 percent of each employment cost index (ECI) adjustment, and 100
                      percent of any applicable locality pay increase until the employee’s saved rate
                      of pay can be matched in the lower grade or classification level. Noting that
                      the policy can have a negative effect on morale when two employees
                      performing the same job earn different rates of pay and that elimination of the
                      policy would help to contain costs, the Committee recommended that the
                      Judicial Conference eliminate the saved pay policy for the courts, but
                      grandfather for two years any employees currently in a saved pay status under
                      the policy. After two years, the Administrative Office would place those
                      employees who remained in a saved pay status at the top step of their
                      respective grade or classification level. The Conference adopted the
                      Committee’s recommendation. The saved pay policy for federal public
                      defender organization personnel is not affected by this change.


                      TEMPORARY PAY ADJUSTMENTS

                              An appointing authority may grant a temporary pay adjustment to a
                      non-supervisory Court Personnel System (CPS) employee temporarily assigned
                      leadership responsibilities. Currently, that pay adjustment is set at the lowest
                      step in the employee’s current classification level that exceeds the employee’s
                      existing rate of pay by three percent. At the time this pay rate was established,


             2
              For district and bankruptcy court clerks’ offices, the weighted factors include the
             number of authorized judgeships (15 percent), the number of authorized staff at 100
             percent of formula (10 percent), and total allotments (5 percent). For probation and
             pretrial services offices, the weighted factors include the number of authorized staff at
             100 percent of formula (15 percent) and total allotments (15 percent).

                                                             28

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2011


                       the CPS promotion rate was a flat rate of six percent. Since that time, the CPS
                       promotion rate has been changed to be a range from not less than one percent
                       to not more than six percent, to be applied on a uniform, unit-wide basis. On
                       recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to amend the pay
                       rate for CPS temporary pay adjustments from a flat rate of three percent to a
                       range from one to three percent, to be determined by the appointing authority
                       on a case-by-case basis as set forth below:

                                An appointing officer may provide a temporary pay adjustment
                                in the full performance range to a Court Personnel System
                                employee who is temporarily in charge of a work project with
                                other employees. A temporary pay adjustment provides for a
                                temporary pay increase within the employee’s existing
                                classification level at the lowest step which equals or exceeds
                                the employee’s existing rate of pay by anywhere from one to
                                three percent, at the appointing officer’s discretion. A
                                temporary pay adjustment may not exceed 52 weeks without re­
                                authorization.


                       TIME-OFF AWARDS

                               Time-off awards allow excused absences with pay (Guide, Vol. 12,
                       Ch. 8, § 830.35(c)). Considering that the judiciary bases an intermittent
                       employee’s pay on hours actually worked with no provision for paid time off,
                       the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference approve a
                       clarification to the policy for granting awards to court employees to prohibit
                       time-off awards for intermittent employees. The Conference adopted the
                       Committee’s recommendation.


                       TELEWORK

                               In March 1999, the Judicial Conference adopted a telework policy for
                       the courts that provided for voluntary employee participation in telework
                       (JCUS-MAR 99, p. 28). In 2004, that policy was extended to federal public
                       defender organizations (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 8). In order for courts and federal
                       public defender organizations to have employees available to telework during a
                       continuity of operations (COOP) event or similar emergency situation, on
                       recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved a
                       revision to the telework policy to state that a court or federal public defender

                                                              29

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2011


                      organization, at its discretion, may require eligible employees to telework as
                      needed during a continuity of operations event, inclement weather, or similar
                      situation (Guide, Vol. 12, Ch. 10, § 1020.20(a)).


                      TYPE II CHIEF DEPUTY CLERK

                               In September 2004, the Judicial Conference authorized any unit in a
                      district or bankruptcy court with ten or more authorized judgeships to establish
                      a second JSP-16 Type II deputy position upon notification to the
                      Administrative Office, to be funded with the court’s decentralized funds
                      (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 23). The District of Idaho has requested a JSP-16 Type II
                      chief deputy clerk for its consolidated bankruptcy and district court clerk’s
                      office even though it does not qualify for one under the policy, citing special
                      circumstances, including the broad span of operational knowledge required in a
                      consolidated court and geographic challenges. The court requested funding,
                      noting that as a small court it does not have the salary flexibility to pay for an
                      additional executive salary. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                      Judicial Conference authorized a second fully funded JSP-16 Type II chief
                      deputy clerk position for the District of Idaho, subject to any budget-balancing
                      reductions.


                      COURT INTERPRETER POSITION

                             Using established criteria, the Committee recommended, and the
                      Conference approved, one additional Spanish staff court interpreter position
                      beginning in fiscal year 2013 for the District of Arizona based on the Spanish
                      language interpreting workload in this court. The Conference also approved
                      accelerated funding in fiscal year 2012 for that position.


                      REALTIME TRANSCRIPT FEES

                               In March 1999, the Judicial Conference amended the maximum
                      realtime transcript rate policy to include a requirement that a litigant who
                      orders realtime services in the courtroom must also purchase, at the regular
                      rates, a certified transcript (original or copy) of the same pages that were
                      received as realtime unedited transcript (JCUS-MAR 99, p. 25). The policy
                      was adopted to address concerns about the unprofitability of providing realtime
                      services and about the circulation of unedited transcripts that are not backed up

                                                             30

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2011


                       by certified transcripts. At this session, the Committee noted that the
                       requirement has resulted in an increased administrative burden to litigants and
                       court staff, and serves as a disincentive for litigants to use realtime services.
                       Moreover the concerns which led to development of the policy can be
                       addressed through other means. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                       Judicial Conference agreed to eliminate the requirement effective January 1,
                       2012.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it submitted to the
                       Committee on the Budget a fiscal year 2013 budget request derived from
                       existing work measurement data using alternative staffing formulas calculated
                       at the 70 percent level, which would result in a 3.9 percent increase over the
                       assumed 2012 funding levels. The Committee considered short-term and
                       longer-term cost-containment ideas and provided its recommendations to the
                       Budget Committee. The Committee supported requests from the
                       Administrative Office’s Bankruptcy and District Clerks Advisory Groups to
                       accelerate by one year the delivery dates of the staffing formula updates for
                       bankruptcy and district clerks’ offices. Those updates will now be due to the
                       Committee in June 2012 and June 2013, respectively.


              C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL S ECURITY

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it decided to convene
                       a cost-containment task force comprised of members of the Committee and the
                       U.S. Marshals Service (USMS) staff to gather data and identify
                       cost-containment initiatives in the short, medium, and long term based on the
                       projected budgetary shortfalls in FY 2012 and beyond. The Committee was
                       also briefed on the status of the perimeter security pilot program at seven
                       courthouses where the USMS has assumed responsibility for perimeter security
                       guarding and equipment. The Committee was informed that a follow-up report
                       on the program would be sent to Congress, and was advised that further
                       congressional direction is required to define the future of the program.




                                                               31

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                             September 13, 2011


             C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
             OF THE M AGISTRATE J UDGES S YSTEM

                      CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                              After consideration of the report of the Committee on the
                      Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of
                      the Director of the Administrative Office, the district courts, and the judicial
                      councils of the circuits, and after discussion on the Conference floor on
                      whether to authorize three new full-time magistrate judge positions, the
                      Judicial Conference approved the following recommendations that involved
                      courts that had requested new magistrate judge positions. Changes with a
                      budgetary impact are to be effective when appropriated funds are available.

                      THIRD CIRCUIT

                      District of Delaware

                      1. 	     Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at
                               Wilmington; and

                      2. 	     Made no other change in the number, location, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      FOURTH CIRCUIT

                      Middle District of North Carolina

                      1.	      Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position for the
                               district, to be located at Durham; and

                      2. 	     Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                               magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      ELEVENTH CIRCUIT

                      Middle District of Florida

                      1.	      Authorized an additional full-time magistrate judge position at Orlando
                               or Tampa; and


                                                              32

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                             September 13, 2011


                       2. 	     Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                                magistrate judge positions in the district.

                       Southern District of Georgia

                       Made no change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the magistrate
                       judge positions in the district.

                               The Conference also agreed to make no change in the number,
                       locations, salaries, or arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the
                       Western District of North Carolina; Middle District of Louisiana; Eastern
                       District of Michigan; District of Alaska; District of Idaho; and Northern
                       District of Alabama.


                       ACCELERATED FUNDING

                              On recommendation of the Committee and after discussion on the
                       Conference floor, the Judicial Conference agreed to designate for accelerated
                       funding, effective April 1, 2012, the new full-time magistrate judge positions at
                       Wilmington in the District of Delaware, Durham in the Middle District of
                       North Carolina, and Orlando or Tampa in the Middle District of Florida.


                       MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITION VACANCY

                                The Middle District of Louisiana requested permission to fill an
                       upcoming magistrate judge position vacancy at Baton Rouge. Noting the
                       decline in the court’s per judgeship caseload since a third magistrate judge was
                       appointed, the Committee recommended that the Conference not authorize the
                       district to fill the position when it becomes vacant in May 2012. The
                       Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation and declined to approve
                       filling the vacancy.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                       reported that it considered short-term and longer-term cost-containment ideas.
                       In response to one short-term idea identified for its consideration, involving
                       reducing or discontinuing staff travel to conduct magistrate judge surveys, the


                                                              33

Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 13, 2011


                      Committee confirmed the value of staff visits to the courts and agreed that the
                      benefits from visits to the courts exceed the relatively small cost. For the
                      longer term, the Committee agreed to explore cost-containment ideas for the
                      magistrate judge recall program and to work with other committees on various
                      other initiatives.


             C OMMITTEE ON R ULES OF P RACTICE AND P ROCEDURE

                      FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1007 (Lists,
                      Schedules, Statements, and Other Documents; Time Limits), 2015 (Duty to
                      Keep Records, Make Reports, and Give Notice of Case or Change of Status),
                      3001 (Proof of Claim), 7054 (Judgments; Costs), and 7056 (Summary
                      Judgment), together with committee notes explaining their purpose and intent.
                      The Judicial Conference approved the proposed rules amendments and
                      authorized their transmission to the Supreme Court for its consideration with a
                      recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress
                      in accordance with the law.

                              The Committee also submitted to the Judicial Conference proposed
                      revisions to Official Forms 1 (Voluntary Petition), 9A–9I (Notices of
                      Commencement of Case Under the Bankruptcy Code, Meeting of Creditors,
                      and Deadlines), 10 (Proof of Claim), and 25A (Plan of Reorganization in Small
                      Business Case Under Chapter 11) and new Official Forms 10, Attachment A
                      (Mortgage Proof of Claim), 10, Supplement 1 (Notice of Mortgage Payment
                      Change), and 10, Supplement 2 (Notice of Postpetition Mortgage Fees,
                      Expenses, and Charges). The Judicial Conference approved the revised forms
                      to take effect on December 1, 2011.


                      FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Criminal Rules 5 (Initial
                      Appearance), 15 (Depositions), and 58 (Petty Offenses and Other
                      Misdemeanors), and proposed new Rule 37 (Indicative Ruling on a Motion for
                      Relief That is Barred by a Pending Appeal), together with committee notes
                      explaining their purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference approved the

                                                            34

Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 13, 2011


                       proposed rules amendments and new rule and authorized their transmission to
                       the Supreme Court for its consideration with a recommendation that they be
                       adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                       PROCEDURES GOVERNING THE WORK OF THE 

                       RULES COMMITTEE


                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       approved revised Procedures for the Judicial Conference’s Committee on
                       Rules of Practice and Procedure and Its Advisory Rules Committees. The
                       revised procedures take into account the impact of the internet on committee
                       functions, propose ways to make the rules process more efficient, and follow
                       the style protocols used in drafting the rules.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                       approved publishing for public comment proposed amendments to Appellate
                       Rules 13, 14, 24, 28, and 28.1, and Form 4; Bankruptcy Rules 1007, 3007, 5009,
                       and 9006, and Forms 6C, 7, 22A, and 22C; Civil Rules 37 and 45; Criminal
                       Rules 11, 12, and 34; and Evidence Rule 803. Among the proposals is an
                       amendment to Civil Rule 45, governing both trial and discovery subpoenas, to
                       make the rule clearer and easier to apply; and a proposed amendment to
                       Criminal Rule 12 to address motions that must be raised before trial and the
                       consequences of untimely motions. The proposals were published in August
                       2011; the comment period closes on February 15, 2012.


              C OMMITTEE ON S PACE AND F ACILITIES

                       FIVE-YEAR COURTHOUSE PROJECT PLAN

                               The Committee on Space and Facilities recommended that the Judicial
                       Conference approve the Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan for Fiscal Years
                       2013-2017 and grant the Committee authority to remove the Los Angeles
                       project from the Plan when appropriate. The Committee indicated that the Los
                       Angeles project requires no additional funding and therefore should be removed
                       from the Plan once a contract for design and construction has been awarded.
                       The Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.

                                                             35

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 13, 2011




                      FEASIBILITY STUDY

                              A new courthouse project has been authorized and is underway in Salt
                      Lake City, Utah. The Committee recommended, and the Conference approved,
                      requesting a General Services Administration (GSA) feasibility study for the
                      backfill of the existing Moss Courthouse in Salt Lake City, contingent upon
                      final court approval of the District of Utah long-range facilities plan.


                      U.S. COURTS DESIGN GUIDE

                              Over the last several years, the Judicial Conference has adopted a number
                      of policies that affect the planning and design of new courthouses and
                      courtrooms, including asset management planning ( a new long-range facilities
                      planning methodology), the circuit rent budget (CRB) program, and courtroom
                      sharing policies for senior and magistrate judges. These policies, as well as the
                      new planning approach discussed immediately below, supersede a number of
                      factors and planning assumptions in the U. S. Courts Design Guide. On
                      recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to update the
                      Design Guide to reflect the changes made by these policies.


                      PLANNING THE SIZE OF NEW COURTHOUSES

                             On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to
                      adopt a new approach to planning the size of new courthouses that reassesses the
                      manner in which space is planned for projected judgeships. The approach
                      includes the following assumptions:

                               New courthouse construction projects will be designed to provide
                               space for the existing circuit, district, bankruptcy and magistrate
                               judges (including vacant judgeship positions), and senior judges,
                               as well as space to account for judges who will be eligible for
                               senior status within the 10-year planning period for the project
                               consistent with Judicial Conference policy and congressional
                               direction.




                                                               36

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 13, 2011


                                Space for Judicial Conference-approved judgeships not yet
                                created by Congress will be taken into consideration at the design
                                concept phase in that the architects will show how space for these
                                judgeships could fit into the design. Architects will not, however,
                                complete a detailed design that includes space for these
                                judgeships because they have not yet been created by Congress.
                                Should the positions be created by Congress during the design
                                phase, the design documents would be amended to include the
                                new positions and space would be constructed for them.

                                Space for judgeships that the judiciary projects will be needed,
                                but that have not yet been recommended to the Judicial
                                Conference for approval, will be considered by GSA as part of
                                future expansion plans for the building. Space will not be
                                designed for these projected positions.


                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that with regard to the
                     circuit rent budget program, it approved 17 Component B requests, and that due to
                     the delay in the approval of a fiscal year 2011 budget, circuits will be allowed to
                     extend the availability of fiscal year 2011 Component C funding through FY 2013
                     on a one-time basis. The Committee discussed potential short- and long-term
                     cost-containment initiatives involving the space and facilities program, and
                     determined to gather the data necessary to quantify the cost savings and determine
                     the operational impact of the proposed initiatives. In addition, the Committee was
                     updated on the efforts underway to develop an implementation strategy for the
                     Capital Security Program, should that program be funded by Congress in FY 2012
                     or in subsequent years. The program is intended to assist courts at locations that
                     have security deficiencies, but that may not qualify for a new building.




                                                               37

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 13, 2011


             F UNDING
                                All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                      funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                      the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might establish
                      for the use of available resources.




                                                                    Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                    Presiding




                                                              38

