R EPORT OF THE P ROCEEDINGS
OF THE J UDICIAL C ONFERENCE
OF THE U NITED S TATES


March 15, 2011


                       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
               D.C., on March 15, 2011, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
               United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
               the following members of the Conference were present:

                      First Circuit:

                                  Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                  Chief Judge Mark L. Wolf,
                                         District of Massachusetts

                      Second Circuit:

                                  Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs
                                  Judge Carol Bagley Amon,1
                                         Eastern District of New York

                      Third Circuit:

                                  Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                  Chief Judge Harvey Bartle III,
                                         Eastern District of Pennsylvania

                      Fourth Circuit:

                                  Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.
                                  Chief Judge James P. Jones,
                                         Western District of Virginia




        1
        Designated by the Chief Justice as a substitute for Chief Judge Raymond J. Dearie,
        who was unable to attend.
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           March 15, 2011

                               Fifth Circuit:

                                          Chief Judge Edith Hollan Jones
                                          Chief Judge Sarah Vance,
                                                 Eastern District of Louisiana
                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alice M. Batchelder
                                           Judge Thomas A. Varlan,
                                                  Eastern District of Tennessee

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook
                                           Chief Judge Richard L. Young,
                                                  Southern District of Indiana

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Rodney W. Sippel,
                                                  Eastern District of Missouri

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alex Kozinski
                                           Chief Judge Robert S. Lasnik,
                                                  Western District of Washington

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe
                                           Judge Robin J. Cauthron,
                                                  Western District of Oklahoma

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel F. Dubina
                                           Judge Myron H. Thompson,
                                                  Middle District of Alabama



                                                              2

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 15, 2011

                                District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge David Bryan Sentelle
                                           Chief Judge Royce C. Lamberth,
                                                  District of Columbia

                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Randall R. Rader

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Donald C. Pogue

                                The following Judicial Conference committee chairs attended the
                        Conference session: Circuit Judges Bobby R. Baldock, Julia Smith Gibbons,
                        Michael S. Kanne, M. Margaret McKeown, Diarmuid F. O’Scannlain,
                        Jeffrey S. Sutton, Richard C. Tallman, and John Walker, Jr.; District Judges
                        Robert Holmes Bell, Rosemary M. Collyer, Joy Flowers Conti, Sidney A.
                        Fitzwater, Janet C. Hall, D. Brock Hornby, David A. Katz, George H. King,
                        Mark R. Kravitz, J. Frederick Motz, Michael A. Ponsor, Julie A. Robinson,
                        Lee H. Rosenthal, and George Z. Singal; and Bankruptcy Judge Eugene R.
                        Wedoff. Attending as the magistrate judge and bankruptcy judge observers,
                        respectively, were Judge Anthony J. Battaglia2 and Bankruptcy Judge
                        Rosemary Gambardella. Cathy Catterson of the Ninth Circuit represented the
                        circuit executives.

                                James C. Duff, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
                        States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill C. Sayenga,
                        Deputy Director; William R. Burchill, Jr., Associate Director and General
                        Counsel; Laura C. Minor, Assistant Director, and Wendy Jennis, Deputy
                        Assistant Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Cordia A.
                        Strom, Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; and David A. Sellers, Assistant
                        Director, Public Affairs. District Judge Barbara Jacobs Rothstein and
                        John S. Cooke, Director and Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center,
                        and District Judge Patti B. Saris and Brent Newton, Chair and Deputy Staff
                        Director of the United States Sentencing Commission, were in attendance at
                        the session of the Conference, as was Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to the



              2
                  Judge Battaglia was confirmed as a district judge on March 7, 2011.

                                                                3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 15, 2011

                      Chief Justice. The 2010-2011 Supreme Court Fellows also observed the
                      Conference proceedings.

                              Deputy Attorney General James Cole addressed the Conference on
                      matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice.
                      Senators Patrick J. Leahy, Charles E. Grassley, Amy Klobuchar, and Thad
                      Cochran, and Representatives Lamar Smith, John Conyers, Jr., Howard Coble,
                      Steve Cohen, and Harold Rogers, spoke on matters pending in Congress of
                      interest to the Conference.


             R EPORTS
                               Mr. Duff reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                      courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge
                      Rothstein spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC)
                      programs, and Judge Saris reported on United States Sentencing Commission
                      activities. Judge Julia Smith Gibbons, Chair of the Committee on the Budget,
                      presented a report on the budget outlook.


             E LECTION

                              The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
                      Federal Judicial Center for a term of four years Chief Judge James F.
                      Holderman, Jr., of the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois and
                      Chief Judge Kathryn H. Vratil of the District Court for the District of Kansas
                      to succeed Judge David O. Carter of the District Court for the Central District
                      of California and Judge Philip M. Pro of the District Court for the District of
                      Nevada.


             E XECUTIVE C OMMITTEE

                      JUDICIARY STRATEGIC PLANNING

                              At its September 2010 session, on recommendation of the Executive
                      Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the Strategic Plan for the
                      Federal Judiciary, as well as the Committee’s recommended approach to
                      strategic planning (JCUS-SEP 10, pp. 5-6). That approach includes provision
                      for designation by the Executive Committee chair of an Article III judge to

                                                             4

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                               March 15, 2011

                       serve as judiciary planning coordinator. In late September 2010, Judge
                       Charles R. Breyer was appointed for a two-year term as the long-range
                       planning coordinator with responsibility for facilitating and coordinating the
                       strategic planning efforts of the Judicial Conference and its committees. In
                       early 2011, the Executive Committee identified four strategies and one goal
                       from the Strategic Plan that will serve as judiciary-wide priorities for the next
                       two years.


                       RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT FOR JUDGES OF THE
                       FEDERAL CIRCUIT

                               A provision in pending patent reform legislation (S. 23, 112th Cong.)
                       would repeal the current requirement set forth in 28 U.S.C. § 44(c) that active
                       judges on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reside within fifty
                       miles of the District of Columbia. Noting that the judges of the Federal
                       Circuit, who believe that the residency requirement significantly enhances the
                       court’s decisional capabilities, unanimously favor retaining the requirement,
                       the Court Administration and Case Management Committee recommended
                       that the Conference oppose legislation that would repeal the residency
                       requirement. Because the legislation was moving quickly through Congress,
                       the Executive Committee acted on behalf of the Conference and approved the
                       recommendation.


                       MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                                The Executive Committee —

                       •
       Determined that the Administrative Office’s Online System for
                                Clerkship Application and Review (OSCAR) working group is the
                                entity that should advise judges each year of the law clerk hiring dates;

                       •	       Reviewed the determinations of the other Conference committees as to
                                whether the judiciary should pursue in the 112th Congress, or defer
                                pursuit of, Conference-approved legislative proposals within those
                                committees’ jurisdictions;

                       •	       On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
                                Magistrate Judges System and on behalf of the Judicial Conference,
                                approved one additional magistrate judge position for the District of
                                Arizona at Phoenix and accelerated funding for that position, effective

                                                                5

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                  March 15, 2011

                               immediately, and made no other changes affecting magistrate judge
                               positions in that district;

                      •
       Approved adjustments to the judiciary’s fiscal year 2012 budget
                               request;

                       •	      On recommendation of the Committee on Rules of Practice and
                               Procedure and on behalf of the Conference, approved the Second
                               Report of the Judicial Conference of the United States on the
                               Adequacy of Privacy Rules Prescribed Under the E-Government Act of
                               2002 for transmission to Congress;

                      •	       Delegated to the Director of the Administrative Office the authority to
                               provide to Congress a list of district courts recommended by the
                               Conference for additional judgeships, in order of weighted filings per
                               judgeship, without further approval by the Committee, as the Director
                               routinely provides such lists to Congress in the ordinary course of
                               duties (see also infra, “Additional Judgeships for Courts with the
                               Greatest Need,” p. 22); and

                      •	       On recommendation of the Committee on Court Administration and
                               Case Management, approved new language to be added to the end of
                               the District Court and Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedules
                               to enable courts to assess a charge for investment services when
                               registry funds are invested directly by the judiciary’s Court Registry
                               Investment System with the United States Treasury’s Bureau of Public
                               Debt, to be assessed from interest earnings at a rate of 2.5 basis points.


                      C OMMITTEE ON A UDITS AND
                      A DMINISTRATIVE O FFICE A CCOUNTABILITY

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                      reported that it received detailed briefings from two of the judiciary’s
                      independent audit firms regarding audits of the judiciary’s national contracts
                      and national accounts and programs. The contract audit firm found that
                      overall contract oversight is sufficient, and the financial audit firm rendered a
                      positive “unqualified” opinion on all of the financial statements and found no
                      instances of failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and contracts.


                                                               6

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 15, 2011

                       The Committee discussed at length an auditor recommendation regarding
                       formal channels to allow employees to anonymously report fraud, waste, and
                       abuse, and determined that it would be beneficial and appropriate to
                       communicate to all employees the existence of current channels available
                       within the judiciary for reporting such concerns.


              C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
              OF THE B ANKRUPTCY S YSTEM

                       BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                               Additional Judgeships. The Judicial Conference conducts a biennial
                       survey to evaluate requests for additional bankruptcy judgeships and transmits
                       its recommendations to Congress, which establishes the number of bankruptcy
                       judgeships in each judicial district (28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(2)). Based on the 2010
                       biennial survey of judgeship needs, and on recommendation of the Committee
                       on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System, the Judicial Conference
                       agreed to recommend to Congress the addition of 49 bankruptcy judgeships
                       (48 permanent and one temporary), the conversion of 28 temporary judgeships
                       to permanent status, and the extension of two temporary judgeships for an
                       additional five years.

                               Criteria. In September 2010, the Judicial Conference codified the
                       standard to be used in evaluating requests for conversion of temporary
                       judgeships to permanent. At this session, on recommendation of the
                       Committee, the Conference clarified that standard to expressly state that the
                       1,500 weighted filings per judgeship threshold is calculated assuming the loss
                       of one judgeship. The standard was amended to read as follows:

                                Generally, it is expected that, in addition to other judicial
                                duties, a bankruptcy district should have an annual weighted
                                caseload of at least 1,500 per judgeship, when computed using
                                currently authorized judgeships minus one, to justify
                                converting an existing temporary judgeship to permanent
                                status.




                                                              7

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 15, 2011



                      INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENT GUIDELINES

                               In order to allow more flexibility and promote greater use of
                      intercircuit assignments, the Committee recommended that the Guidelines for
                      the Intercircuit Assignment of Bankruptcy Judges be revised so that (a) only
                      the district, and not the whole circuit, that lends a bankruptcy judge to another
                      circuit cannot borrow from another circuit during that period, and (b) a
                      district, upon approval of the circuits involved, may seek to borrow a visiting
                      judge from a geographically contiguous district in another circuit before
                      attempting to meet its needs from within its own circuit if such assignment
                      would be less expensive and more efficient. The Committee also
                      recommended several technical changes to update and clarify the regulations.
                      The Conference approved the proposed changes.


                      PLACE OF HOLDING COURT

                             On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, and in accordance
                      with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(1), the Judicial Conference approved a request from
                      the Tenth Circuit Judicial Council and the District of Utah to authorize the
                      designation of St. George as an additional place of holding bankruptcy court in
                      the District of Utah.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                      reported that it provided the Budget Committee with its views on adjusting the
                      budget cap on the judiciary’s Salaries and Expenses account (see infra,
                      “Salaries and Expenses Account Budget Cap,” p. 9). In addition, the
                      Committee informed the Committee on Court Administration and Case
                      Management that it endorsed the concept of truncating debtors’ full Social
                      Security numbers on the notice of meeting of creditors. The Committee also
                      advised the Federal-State Jurisdiction Committee that it declined to endorse a
                      legislative proposal to include bankruptcy judges among those Ninth Circuit
                      federal judges permitted to serve on courts of the freely associated compact
                      states (see infra, “Federal Judicial Service on Courts of the Freely Associated
                      Compact States,” pp. 14-15).

                      .


                                                              8

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 15, 2011


              C OMMITTEE ON THE B UDGET

                       SALARIES AND EXPENSES ACCOUNT BUDGET CAP

                               In March 2007, the Judicial Conference set an overall cap on annual
                       increases in the Salaries and Expenses account for fiscal years 2009 through
                       2017 at an average of 8.2 percent over prior-year appropriations (JCUS­
                       MAR 07, p. 10). At this session, after receiving input from the program
                       committees, the Budget Committee recommended that the Conference lower
                       the budget cap from 8.2 percent to 5.2 percent as a cost-control measure and to
                       demonstrate to Congress that the judiciary is committed to continuing to
                       contain growth in its requirements. The Conference agreed to the 5.2 percent
                       cap for the Salaries and Expenses account for fiscal years 2013 through 2017.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Budget reported that it continues to be
                       concerned about the long-term financial health of the judiciary in this period
                       of fiscal austerity. The Committee is committed to a renewed focus on cost
                       containment, including identifying several multi-jurisdictional issues that it
                       plans to discuss with program committees that could lessen the gap between
                       the judiciary’s estimated budget requirements and the assumed funding levels
                       for the foreseeable future. Noting the importance of the judiciary’s
                       two-pronged approach of cost containment and congressional outreach, the
                       Committee emphasized that the judiciary remains committed to seeking only
                       the funding that is absolutely necessary to perform its judicial responsibilities.


              C OMMITTEE ON C ODES OF C ONDUCT

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in September 2010, the Committee received 29
                       new written inquiries and issued 28 written advisory responses. During this
                       period, the average response time for requests was 16 days. In addition, the
                       Committee chair responded to 205 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                       members responded to 123 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                       responded to 336 informal inquiries.


                                                               9

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 15, 2011


             C OMMITTEE ON C OURT A DMINISTRATION
             AND C ASE M ANAGEMENT

                      RECORDS DISPOSITION SCHEDULES

                               Criminal case files. The Committee on Court Administration and Case
                      Management recommended that the Judicial Conference adopt a revised
                      district court records disposition schedule for criminal case files that closely
                      tracks the changes in the schedule for civil cases adopted by the Conference in
                      September 2010 (JCUS-SEP 10, p. 14). Among other things, the new
                      schedule adds cases related to treason and national security to the list of cases
                      designated as permanent. It also reduces from 25 to 15 years after closure the
                      time that criminal case files remain at Federal Records Centers (FRCs) before
                      they are destroyed or sent to the National Archives and Records
                      Administration (NARA), thereby reducing the storage fees the judiciary pays
                      to NARA. The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.

                              Bankruptcy case files. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                      Conference also revised the bankruptcy court records disposition schedule.
                      The new schedule designates additional types of cases as permanent, including
                      25 percent of the case files closed in nine judicial districts, the districts to be
                      selected each year on a rotational basis. The intent of this provision is to
                      retain a national sampling of bankruptcy cases in every decade. The new
                      schedule also reduces from 25 to 15 years the minimum time cases must be
                      retained after closure.


                      SCANNING PAPER CASE FILES INTO CM/ECF

                              Closed paper case files. When older paper case files that have been
                      transferred to a Federal Records Center are requested for review at a court, the
                      court often scans the documents into the case management/electronic case
                      files (CM/ECF) system and then destroys the paper records, rather than return
                      them to the FRC. However, since many of these documents were filed prior to
                      the adoption of the judiciary’s privacy policies and rules, they may contain
                      personal identifiers that compromise the privacy of the parties. To address
                      this concern, on recommendation of the Committee, the Conference endorsed
                      the practice of scanning into CM/ECF older paper files stored at FRCs when
                      they are requested for viewing, but agreed to require that courts restrict remote
                      public access to those files and allow public access only at the clerk’s office
                      public terminal or counter.

                                                              10

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 15, 2011

                              Open fugitive criminal case files. Fugitive criminal case files contain
                       information that is normally restricted from remote public access. Noting that
                       the CM/ECF system has seven levels of access ranging from public
                       availability to completely sealed, the Committee recommended that the
                       Conference endorse the scanning of open fugitive criminal case files into
                       CM/ECF under the appropriate restriction levels. This would allow courts to
                       destroy the paper copies and manage the cases electronically while at the same
                       time protecting sensitive information. The Conference adopted the
                       Committee’s recommendation.

                               Sealed case files. In March 2007, the Judicial Conference endorsed a
                       sealing functionality in the CM/ECF system and encouraged courts to manage
                       electronically all cases and documents under seal (JCUS-MAR 07, p. 12). At
                       this session, noting that several courts’ vaults for sealed records have
                       exceeded capacity, the Committee recommended that the Conference endorse
                       the scanning into CM/ECF, under the appropriate restriction level, of sealed
                       paper case files and documents stored at the court. The Conference adopted
                       the Committee’s recommendation.


                       ELECTRONIC PUBLIC ACCESS FEE EXEMPTION

                                The Electronic Public Access (EPA) Fee Schedule provides for
                       exemptions for persons or classes of persons, including individual researchers
                       associated with educational institutions, upon a showing that an exemption is
                       necessary to avoid unreasonable burdens and to promote public access to
                       information. However, any user granted an exemption must agree not to sell
                       the data for profit and not to transfer data unless expressly authorized by the
                       court. Despite these restrictions, researchers associated with educational
                       institutions are increasingly redistributing court information through internet-
                       based databases, without express court permission, and in some instances may
                       stand to gain financially from such redistribution. Therefore, the Committee
                       recommended, and the Conference approved, a modification of the EPA fee
                       schedule to include the following sentence: “For individual researchers,
                       courts must also find that the defined research project is intended for academic
                       research purposes, and not for commercial purposes or internet redistribution.”


                       OPINION PILOT PROJECT

                              In March 2010, the Judicial Conference approved a pilot project with
                       the Government Printing Office (GPO), involving no more than 12 courts, to

                                                             11

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 15, 2011

                      provide public access to court opinions through GPO’s Federal Digital System
                      (FDsys), which is an advanced, internet-based digital system that allows
                      searches across opinions and across courts (JCUS-MAR 10, p. 9). At this
                      session, the Conference adopted a recommendation of the Committee to
                      expand the pilot program to include up to 30 additional courts, to ensure that
                      sufficient data is collected to evaluate the program.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                      reported that it identified key issues to be included in the final guidelines for
                      the cameras-in-the-courtroom pilot project, and established parameters for the
                      FJC's study of the pilot. The Committee reviewed a draft of the FJC’s
                      bankruptcy courtroom use study. It also reviewed policy recommendations of
                      its CM/ECF subcommittee and continued to provide oversight in the
                      development of the Next Generation CM/ECF software. In addition, the
                      Committee reconstituted its privacy subcommittee to consider the use of a
                      debtor’s full Social Security number in certain bankruptcy pleadings and the
                      recommendations contained in two Rules Committee reports relating to
                      sealing documents and the privacy rules. A recommendation of the
                      Committee to the Judicial Conference on senior judge participation in en banc
                      panels was withdrawn for further consideration.


             C OMMITTEE ON C RIMINAL L AW

                      FEDERAL SUPERVISION OF SEX OFFENDERS

                              On recommendation of the Committee on Criminal Law, the Judicial
                      Conference approved a new policy governing probation and pretrial services
                      officers’ management of sex offenders. The new policy is intended to give
                      probation and pretrial services officers a broad overview of sex offender
                      management principles.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it discussed a proposed
                      work measurement formula for probation and pretrial services offices, along
                      with a proposed case weighting supplement, and provided input to the


                                                             12

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 15, 2011

                       Committee on Judicial Resources (see infra, “Staffing Formulas,” p. 26). In
                       addition, the Committee endorsed a proposal to create a secure
                       interconnection between the judiciary and Department of Justice so that select
                       data elements related to the work of probation and pretrial services officers
                       could be exchanged. This proposal was forwarded to the Committee on
                       Information Technology for its consideration.


              C OMMITTEE ON D EFENDER S ERVICES

                       CASE-BUDGETING ATTORNEYS

                                In September 2005, the Judicial Conference approved a pilot project
                       for the Defender Services account to fund a position in up to three circuits to
                       support the case-budgeting process (JCUS-SEP 05, p. 21). An FJC study of
                       the pilot project concluded that the program contained costs and did not
                       diminish (and even improved) the quality of representation and that the
                       savings achieved by the program were greater than the costs. At this session,
                       on recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to approve the
                       utilization of circuit Criminal Justice Act (CJA) case-budgeting attorney
                       positions, the continued funding for the three current case-budgeting attorneys,
                       and expansion in the number of positions. The Conference further agreed that
                       the case-budgeting attorney positions will be structured as circuit unit
                       employees that are funded by the Defender Services account and will operate
                       pursuant to a Memorandum of Understanding that will include an advisory
                       role for the Administrative Office in the appointment, management, and
                       oversight of the position, with the understanding that the circuit has the
                       ultimate authority in the selection, retention, and management of the position.
                       Expansion of the number of case-budgeting attorneys will occur
                       incrementally, subject to the Committee’s approval and the availability of
                       funding.


                       CLEMENCY REPRESENTATION

                               Criminal Justice Act panel attorneys, as well as federal defender
                       organizations, provide representation with Defender Services funding in state
                       clemency proceedings. To foster uniformity in practices related to the
                       appointment and compensation of counsel for CJA representation in such
                       proceedings, the Committee recommended, and the Judicial Conference



                                                             13

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 15, 2011

                      approved, policy guidance on this issue, to be included in the CJA guidelines,
                      Guide to Judiciary Policy (Guide), Vol. 7A, § 680.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Defender Services reported that it received a
                      detailed report on the recently completed federal defender organization (FDO)
                      case weighting study and approved a process for calculating budgets for fiscal
                      year 2012 that is based on weighted cases opened during a 12-month period.
                      Citing the austere fiscal circumstances predicted for the judiciary, the
                      Committee deferred authorization of several proposals for achieving parity
                      between compensation offered by FDOs and that offered by U.S. attorneys’
                      offices, although it noted its continuing support for the Judicial Conference
                      policy regarding such parity.


             C OMMITTEE ON F EDERAL -S TATE J URISDICTION

                      FEDERAL JUDICIAL SERVICE ON COURTS OF THE

                      FREELY ASSOCIATED COMPACT STATES


                              Section 297 of title 28, United States Code, authorizes the Chief
                      Justice or the chief judge of the Ninth Circuit to assign a circuit or district
                      judge of that circuit, with the consent of the judge, to serve temporarily as a
                      judge of any duly constituted court of the freely associated compact states (the
                      Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and the Federated
                      States of Micronesia), if so requested by the compact state. The Marshall
                      Islands has proposed an amendment to this statute to also permit non-Article
                      III judges to provide such service, which proposal the Ninth Circuit Judicial
                      Council and its Pacific Islands Committee support. After consulting the
                      Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System and the
                      Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System, the
                      Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction recommended that the Judicial
                      Conference support an amendment to 28 U.S.C. § 297 to specify that, in
                      addition to circuit and district judges, magistrate judges and territorial judges




                                                             14

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 15, 2011

                       may be assigned temporarily to provide service to the freely associated
                       compact states.3 The Conference approved the recommendation.


                       FELA AND JONES ACT CASES

                               In September 1990, and again in September 1995 as part of the Long
                       Range Plan for the Federal Courts, the Judicial Conference endorsed repeal
                       of the Federal Employers’ Liability Act (FELA), which provides injured
                       railroad employees with a cause of action against their employers for
                       negligence, and the Jones Act, which provides a similar remedy for seamen
                       (JCUS-SEP 90, p. 82; JCUS-SEP 95, p. 43). Implementation Strategy 12a of
                       the Long Range Plan notes that states have proven effective in resolving
                       worker compensation disputes in other industries and occupations and that
                       federal jurisdiction was therefore not warranted in FELA and Jones Act cases.
                       However, as indicated by the Committee, this position is likely to meet with
                       opposition in Congress and has not been pursued in Congress in over 15 years.
                       In addition, FELA and Jones Act cases make up a very small part of the
                       federal docket. Therefore, the Committee recommended that the Conference
                       rescind its position in support of repeal. The Conference approved the
                       recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it discussed
                       the questions raised by interested stakeholders regarding implementation of
                       the Hague Convention on Choice of Court Agreements. In particular, the
                       Committee addressed concerns raised regarding that part of the Judicial
                       Conference position that would oppose the creation of federal question
                       jurisdiction to recognize judgments of foreign courts if such jurisdiction was
                       based solely on the action arising under the Convention. Members also
                       discussed the likely impact on the federal judiciary of provisions in proposed
                       comprehensive immigration reform legislation. In addition, the Committee
                       reviewed legislation that would establish special procedures for expeditiously
                       resolving lawsuits filed against individuals who are seeking to assert their



              3
               The Bankruptcy Committee declined to support inclusion of bankruptcy judges in the
              statute because of the dire need for additional bankruptcy judges. The Magistrate
              Judges Committee endorsed the proposal.

                                                             15

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 15, 2011

                      First Amendment rights of freedom of speech and right to petition for redress
                      of grievances.


             C OMMITTEE ON F INANCIAL D ISCLOSURE

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that as of
                      December 31, 2010, the Committee had received 4,517 financial disclosure
                      reports and certifications for calendar year 2009, including 1,355 reports and
                      certifications from Supreme Court justices, Article III judges, and judicial
                      officers of special courts; 389 reports from bankruptcy judges; 621 reports
                      from magistrate judges; and 2,152 reports from judicial employees. The
                      Committee adopted a modified version of the CM/ECF system as a vehicle for
                      electronic filing because this approach would provide the greatest measure of
                      security and control over development, and it would be the most fiscally
                      responsible approach for both short- and long-term use. The Committee
                      continues to work to extend the December 31, 2011 sunset of the judiciary’s
                      authority to redact information from financial disclosure reports when
                      releasing such information could endanger a judge or judicial employee.


              C OMMITTEE ON INFORMATION T ECHNOLOGY

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Information Technology reported that it endorsed a
                      set of best security practices for new technologies and encourages courts to
                      follow them; agreed to encourage courts to implement the nationally
                      supported solutions to a security vulnerability in the Public Access to Court
                      Electronic Records (PACER) system; and endorsed guidance for the
                      acquisition by courts of iPhones and iPads. In light of the austere budget
                      climate, the Committee also determined that funding for new grants under the
                      Edwin L. Nelson Local Initiatives program would be suspended for the next
                      two years. The Committee discussed a number of ongoing information
                      technology initiatives, including new services for the courts that both
                      strengthen the judiciary’s information technology program and promote cost
                      containment, the next generation network and national telephone service, and
                      the next generation case management system.



                                                            16

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 15, 2011


             C OMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT A SSIGNMENTS

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 88
                       intercircuit assignments were undertaken by 71 Article III judges from
                       July 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010, bringing the total for the full calendar year
                       2010 to 197 intercircuit assignments that were processed by the Committee
                       and approved by the Chief Justice. The Committee also reported that a
                       modernized version of the Intercircuit Assignments Database System was
                       implemented to provide electronic routing of documents and to expand user
                       access to include chief judges, circuit executives, and courts of appeals clerks.
                       In addition, the Committee continued to disseminate information about
                       intercircuit assignments and aided courts requesting assistance by identifying
                       and obtaining judges willing to take assignments.


              C OMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL J UDICIAL R ELATIONS

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                       involvement in rule of law and judicial reform throughout the world,
                       highlighting activities in Africa, Asia and the Pacific Basin, Latin America
                       and the Caribbean, the Middle East, Europe, and Eurasia. The Committee
                       further reported on its continued participation in the rule of law component of
                       the Library of Congress’ Open World Program for jurists from Russia,
                       Ukraine, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Moldova, and international
                       rule of law work by U.S. federal defenders and court administrators. In
                       addition, the Committee reported about rule of law activities involving the
                       Federal Judicial Center and several executive branch agencies. The
                       Committee also reported on briefings at the Administrative Office for
                       delegations of foreign jurists and judicial personnel.




                                                              17

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 15, 2011


             C OMMITTEE ON THE J UDICIAL B RANCH

                      CREDIT FOR SERVICE AS A NON-ARTICLE III JUDGE

                              The Judicial Conference has previously endorsed seeking legislation
                      that would establish Article III status for the territorial district courts of the
                      Northern Mariana Islands and Guam (JCUS-SEP 03, p. 8; JCUS-SEP 94,
                      p. 51; JCUS-MAR 94, p. 19). On recommendation of the Committee, the
                      Conference, at this session, agreed that if the Conference pursues such
                      legislation, it should also seek legislation to provide that in the event the
                      incumbent judges of those courts are confirmed as Article III judges, their
                      service as judges in their respective territorial district courts would be
                      included in computing, under sections 371 and 372 of Title 28, United States
                      Code, their aggregate years of judicial service. In 1964, the Conference
                      supported similar legislation with regard to service of a judge on the District
                      Court of the Territory of Alaska, who was subsequently confirmed as an
                      Article III judge when Alaska attained statehood (JCUS-SEP 64, pp. 61-62).


                      JUDICIAL WELLNESS

                              On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
                      Judicial Conference agreed to request and encourage circuit judicial councils
                      to consider establishing “judicial wellness” committees that would be charged
                      with accomplishing objectives substantially similar to the following:
                      (a) promoting health and wellness among judges by creating programs
                      (educational or otherwise), policies, and/or practices that provide a supportive
                      environment for the maintenance and restoration of health and wellness; and
                      (b) providing information to judges on judicial retirement issues, including
                      disability retirement.


                      NONFOREIGN COST-OF-LIVING ALLOWANCES

                              In 1979, the Judicial Conference endorsed the position that, as a matter
                      of equity, officers and employees in the judicial branch should receive the
                      same cost-of-living allowances (COLAs) provided in the executive branch for
                      officers and employees serving outside the continental United States or in
                      Alaska (JCUS-SEP 79, p. 73). Judiciary employees have been receiving these
                      COLAs, called “nonforeign” COLAs, but legislation was needed to authorize
                      such payments to judges. Obtaining such legislation was therefore placed on


                                                              18

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 15, 2011

                       the judiciary’s legislative agenda. However, under the Defense Authorization
                       Act of 2010, Public Law No. 111-86, nonforeign COLAs are being phased out
                       and replaced with locality-based comparability payments. Consequently, the
                       Committee determined that the Conference’s 1979 position endorsing the
                       payment of cost-of-living allowances to federal judges serving outside the
                       continental United States or in Alaska (nonforeign COLAs) is no longer
                       relevant and should be rescinded. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
                       recommendation.


                       TRAVEL REGULATIONS FOR JUSTICES AND JUDGES

                                Alternative Allowance. On recommendation of the Judicial Branch
                       Committee, the Judicial Conference amended section 250.30.40 of the Travel
                       Regulations for United States Justices and Judges (Guide, Vol. 19, Ch. 2) to
                       clarify that for overnight travel, in lieu of claiming a per diem allowance for
                       the locality where temporary duty is performed, a judge may claim the cost of
                       lodging plus the maximum General Services Administration (GSA) per diem
                       allowance for meals and incidental expenses, currently $71, provided that the
                       sum total does not exceed 150 percent of the authorized per diem allowance.
                       This change is intended to distinguish the overnight travel allowance for meals
                       and incidental expenses from that for same-day travel, which is the relevant
                       locality GSA allowance, currently ranging from $46 to $71.

                               Government/Third Party-Provided Lodging and/or Meals. The
                       Committee recommended that the Conference approve an amendment to
                       section 250.40.20 of the Travel Regulations for United States Justices and
                       Judges (Guide, Vol. 19, Ch. 2) to clarify that when the government or a third
                       party pays directly for a judge’s lodging and/or meals, the judge should take an
                       appropriate reduction in the judges’ subsistence/per diem allowance. The
                       Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.

                               Reimbursement of Travel Attendants. Currently travel attendants who
                       accompany judges with special needs so that they can perform official
                       business are limited to reimbursement for lodging and meals at the GSA
                       locality per diem rate, which is not always sufficient to cover their actual
                       expenses of subsistence. The Judiciary Staff Travel Regulations (Guide,
                       Vol. 19, Ch. 4) allow travel attendants to claim actual expenses. On
                       recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to amend section
                       240.10 of the Travel Regulations for United States Justices and Judges (Guide,
                       Vol. 19, Ch. 2) to authorize reimbursement of judges’ travel attendants on an


                                                             19

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 15, 2011

                      actual expense basis (in lieu of a per diem allowance), consistent with the
                      provisions of section 420.30.40 of the Judiciary Staff Travel Regulations.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it continues to
                      consider ways to inform the other branches of the federal government, news
                      media, members of the bar, and citizens in general, of the role of the federal
                      judiciary and to bring to their attention the needs of judges and courts, as well
                      as the problems judges face in discharging their duties. The Committee also
                      reported on problems and developments related to compensation and benefits
                      of federal judges.


             C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL C ONDUCT AND D ISABILITY

                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that as of
                      January 25, 2011, it had no pending petitions for review of circuit judicial
                      council orders on complaints under the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act,
                      28 U.S.C. §§ 351-364. The Committee and its staff have continued to address
                      courts’ inquiries regarding the Act and the Conference’s Rules for
                      Judicial-Conduct and Judicial-Disability Proceedings, and to develop
                      processes and informational resources to support the Committee’s monitoring
                      function.


             C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL R ESOURCES

                      ARTICLE III JUDGESHIPS

                              Additional Judgeships. The Committee on Judicial Resources
                      considered requests and justifications for additional judgeships in the courts of
                      appeals and the district courts as part of its 2011 biennial judgeship survey
                      process. Based on its review, and after considering the views of the courts and
                      the circuit judicial councils, the Committee recommended that the Judicial
                      Conference authorize transmittal to Congress of the following request: for the
                      courts of appeals, the addition of eight permanent judgeships and one
                      temporary judgeship, and for the district courts, the addition of 53 permanent

                                                             20

Judicial Conference of the United States                                           March 15, 2011

                       and 18 temporary judgeships, plus the conversion to permanent status of eight
                       existing temporary judgeships. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
                       recommendations, agreeing to transmit the following request to Congress (“P”
                       denotes permanent; “T” denotes temporary; “T/P” denotes conversion of
                       temporary to permanent):

                                Courts of Appeals

                                Second Circuit             2P
                                Third Circuit              1P
                                Sixth Circuit              1P
                                Ninth Circuit              4P, 1T

                                District Courts

                                New York (Eastern)         2P
                                New York (Southern)        1P, 1T
                                New York (Western)         1P, 1T
                                New Jersey                 1P
                                Pennsylvania (Middle)      1T
                                Virginia (Eastern)         1T
                                Texas (Eastern)            1P, 1 T/P
                                Texas (Southern)           4P
                                Texas (Western)            4P, 1T
                                Indiana (Southern)         1P
                                Minnesota                  1P, 1T
                                Missouri (Eastern)         1T/P
                                Missouri (Western)         1T
                                Nebraska                   1T
                                Arizona                    4P, 1T, 1T/P
                                California (Northern)      4P, 1T
                                California (Eastern)       6P, 1T
                                California (Central)       8P, 1T, 1T/P
                                California (Southern)      2P, 1T
                                Idaho                      1P
                                Nevada                     1P, 1T
                                Oregon                     1T
                                Washington (Western)       1P
                                Colorado                   1P, 1T
                                Kansas*                    1T/P
                                New Mexico                 1P, 1T, 1T/P
                                Alabama (Northern)         1T/P

                                                            21

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 15, 2011

                               Florida (Middle)              5P, 1T
                               Florida (Southern)            3P, 1T/P

                               * If the temporary judgeship lapses, the Judicial Conference’s
                               recommendation would be amended to one additional permanent
                               judgeship.

                              Judgeship Vacancies. As part of the biennial survey of judgeship
                      needs, workloads in district and appellate courts with low-weighted caseloads
                      are reviewed for the purpose of determining whether to recommend to the
                      President and Senate that an existing or future judgeship vacancy not be filled.
                      On recommendation of the Committee, the Conference agreed to recommend
                      to the President and the Senate that the next judgeship vacancy in the District
                      of Massachusetts not be filled, based on the three-year low-weighted caseload
                      in that district.

                              Additional Judgeships for Courts with the Greatest Need. Noting that
                      the judiciary’s ability to handle its workload effectively and expeditiously is
                      dependent upon having an appropriate number of Article III judges, and that
                      Congress has not passed nationwide judgeship legislation since 1990, the
                      Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference authorize the Director
                      of the Administrative Office to focus Congress’ attention on those courts
                      determined to have the greatest need based on specific parameters. On
                      recommendation of the Committee, by mail ballot concluded on January 24,
                      2011, the Conference agreed that the Director, subject to the approval of the
                      Executive Committee, may (a) pursue separate legislation for Conference-
                      approved additional judgeships for district courts that have 700 or more
                      weighted filings per authorized judgeship, averaged over a three-year period,
                      and that are utilizing all available judicial resources and procedures; and (b)
                      provide to Congress a list of the district courts recommended by the
                      Conference for additional judgeships, in order of weighted filings per
                      judgeship (see also supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” pp. 5-6).

                               Filling Vacancies in Courts with the Greatest Need. Prolonged
                      judgeship vacancies place significant burdens on the courts by increasing the
                      workloads of those judges available for duty and diminishing the courts’
                      ability to discharge their responsibilities. This problem is particularly acute in
                      districts with extraordinarily high caseloads. Accordingly, on
                      recommendation of the Committee, by mail ballot concluded on January 24,
                      2011, the Judicial Conference agreed that the Director of the Administrative
                      Office, subject to the approval of the Executive Committee, may encourage
                      the President and the Senate to fill judgeship vacancies on a priority basis in

                                                              22

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 15, 2011

                       specific district courts that are using all available judicial resources and
                       procedures and that have either (a) more than one authorized judgeship and
                       only one on-board active judge; or (b) a judicial vacancy pending 18 months
                       or longer and 700 or more weighted filings per active judge (authorized
                       judgeships minus judge vacancies), using statistics for the last fiscal year.


                       COURT LAW CLERK POSITIONS

                                In response to a request from the Eastern District of California for
                       additional law clerks to help the court manage an exceptionally high
                       workload, the Committee on Judicial Resources recommended that the
                       Judicial Conference establish a new court law clerk position in the Judiciary
                       Salary Plan (JSP). These law clerks would be on court rather than chambers
                       staff so that they could assist the entire court with its workload. The
                       effectiveness of the new position in facilitating case resolution in high-
                       workload courts would be assessed at the end of a three-year test period to
                       determine if the position should be retained. Courts selected to participate in
                       this test phase would have to meet the following three criteria evidencing high
                       workload: the court must (a) have greater than 300 case filings per elbow law
                       clerk (assuming two elbow law clerks per chambers), (b) appear on the list of
                       courts recommended for additional judgeships, and (c) appear on the “most
                       congested courts” list. Only two courts, the Eastern District of California and
                       the Western District of New York, meet these three criteria and would
                       therefore be eligible for positions under this test program. Based on the
                       Committee’s recommendation, the Conference agreed to —

                       a.       Establish a “court law clerk” position in the JSP using a specified
                                qualifications standard. Each position requires Conference
                                authorization, and each appointment will not exceed JSP-13, step 1,
                                and is temporary, not to exceed three years on court staff rolls;

                       b.       Allocate ten court law clerk positions to the Eastern District of
                                California and one court law clerk position to the Western District of
                                New York based on the criteria set forth above, for a test period of
                                three years; and

                       c.       Request the Administrative Office to devise a set of statistical criteria
                                by which to evaluate at the end of three years whether the addition of
                                the court law clerks enabled more expeditious case resolution in the
                                Eastern District of California and the Western District of New York.


                                                                23

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 15, 2011



                      TERM LAW CLERKS

                              In September 2007, the Judicial Conference adopted a policy that
                      stated that no individual will be permitted to serve in the judiciary for more
                      than four years in a term law clerk capacity (JCUS-SEP 07, p. 26). The
                      limitation was intended to continue the traditional practice of appointing
                      recent law school graduates as law clerks, reduce disparity in costs from one
                      chambers to another, promote diversity, and allow more young lawyers to
                      experience service in the federal judiciary. A question has since been raised
                      about whether a court could extend a term law clerk’s tenure by switching the
                      law clerk with a career law clerk for up to an additional four years, after which
                      the original career law clerk would resume the career law clerk position and
                      the original term law clerk would be terminated. On recommendation of the
                      Committee, the Conference affirmed that under the September 2007 policy
                      limiting the tenure of term law clerks to four years, courts are not permitted to
                      switch term law clerks with career law clerks or with incumbents of other
                      attorney positions.


                      TEMPORARY AND TERM EMPLOYEES

                              Temporary and term appointments in the judiciary fall into three broad
                      categories, temporary appointments of limited duration, temporary
                      appointments of indefinite duration, and term appointments (currently limited
                      to two positions, elbow law clerks and staff attorneys). Each type of position
                      carries different benefits, ranging from full to no benefits. In September 2007,
                      the Judicial Conference approved a four-year limit on judiciary service for
                      term law clerks (JCUS-SEP 07, p. 26). Subsequently, the Administrative
                      Office undertook a review of all temporary and term positions in the courts
                      and federal public defender organizations, noting that there is no national
                      policy in the judiciary on the use of temporary appointments. Based on this
                      review and after receiving input from the AO’s Human Resources Advisory
                      Council, the Committee recommended that the Conference take the following
                      actions with regard to temporary and term appointments in courts and federal
                      public defender organizations:

                      a.       Limit temporary appointments prospectively to two categories:
                               (1) one year or less; and (2) at least one year and one day;




                                                             24

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 15, 2011

                       b.       Limit to four years all temporary and term appointments, including
                                those for temporary bankruptcy law clerks, temporary law clerks
                                funded by the Temporary Emergency Fund, and term staff attorneys;

                       c.       Provide that extensions would be allowed to temporary or term
                                appointments so long as the total period of service in that position does
                                not exceed a maximum duration of four years; and

                      d.       Exclude from these requirements (i) positions that have statutory
                               appointment limitations, e.g., federal public defenders; (ii) land
                               commissioners due to the infrequent, intermittent nature of the work;
                               and (iii) positions that have Conference policy appointment limitations,
                               such as term law clerks; certain re-employed annuitants; temporary
                               medical, maternity, and extended military leave replacements in
                               chambers; and chambers staff temporarily retained after separation of a
                               judge.

                      In addition, the Committee recommended that the Conference eliminate the
                      temporary indefinite appointment type, converting all such appointments to
                      temporary appointments not to exceed four years from the date of Conference
                      approval of this action and, where appropriate, allow courts and federal public
                      defender organizations to designate such positions as permanent. The
                      Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                      PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO A CHIEF CIRCUIT JUDGE

                               A principal secretary to a chief circuit judge may be temporarily
                      promoted from JSP-11 to JSP-12 if he or she has one year of service as a
                      secretary to a circuit judge and upon a showing of exceptional circuit-wide
                      duties and responsibilities. The temporary promotion becomes permanent after
                      two years (JCUS-SEP 98, p. 80). The same qualification standards apply to the
                      principal secretary to the chief judge of the Court of International Trade
                      (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 24). On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
                      Conference clarified its September 1998 policy to state that (a) the JSP grade
                      12 may only be “carried” from the position of principal secretary to a chief
                      circuit judge to the position of secretary to a federal judge in the chambers of
                      that same chief circuit judge upon that judge stepping down from the chief
                      judge position; and (b) the assistant or additional secretaries in chambers may
                      not be switched with the principal secretary to attain JSP-12 once the principal
                      secretary acquires permanent JSP-12 status. This would not preclude a chief
                      circuit judge from appointing an assistant or additional secretary to the

                                                              25

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 15, 2011

                     principal secretary position if the principal secretary has separated from the
                     chief circuit judge’s chambers. The policy was also amended to expressly
                     incorporate the principal secretary to the chief judge of the Court of
                     International Trade.


                     STAFFING FORMULAS

                             Probation and Pretrial Services Offices. Based on a work measurement
                     study conducted by the Administrative Office, the Committee recommended,
                     and the Judicial Conference approved, a staffing formula for probation and
                     pretrial services offices for implementation beginning in fiscal year 2012, as
                     well as a case-weighting supplement to the staffing formula, to determine
                     future staffing requirements in probation and pretrial services offices. The
                     case-weighting supplement will allow staff allocation to reflect local variations
                     in the supervised population with regard to risk level and criminogenic needs.
                     This is the first systematic adjustment to the probation and pretrial services
                     offices staffing formula since 2004.

                             Court of Federal Claims Clerk’s Office. The Committee recommended,
                     and the Judicial Conference approved, a staffing formula for the clerk’s office
                     of the United States Court of Federal Claims for implementation beginning in
                     fiscal year 2012, based on an AO work measurement study. This is the first
                     staffing formula for this court.


                     ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION

                              In March 1998, the Judicial Conference approved “basic” and “robust”
                     staffing factors for district clerk’s office positions performing duties related to
                     alternative dispute resolution (ADR) (JCUS-MAR 98, pp. 20-21). The basic
                     staffing factor was intended to apply to most district courts’ ADR programs,
                     while the robust factor was intended for a limited number of district courts with
                     extensive ADR programs. A request from the Western District of New York
                     for application of the robust staffing factor was initially denied by the
                     Committee in December 2009, but subsequently the Committee agreed to study
                     the criteria used to apply the staffing factors and deferred further action on the
                     district’s request pending the study’s completion. The district sought
                     reconsideration of the deferral. At this session, the Committee reported that the
                     study will take longer than expected and that the Western District of New
                     York, as well as the District of Idaho (which had also recently requested
                     application of the robust factor and had workload and ADR requirements

                                                             26

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 15, 2011

                      comparable to those of the Western District of New York), were on the “most
                      congested courts” list and the list of courts requiring additional judgeships due
                      to extremely high workload. Therefore, the Committee decided to recommend
                      approval of the robust staffing factor for two years for these two districts
                      pending completion of the ADR work measurement study and a working
                      group’s analysis and suggestions. The Conference approved the Committee’s
                      recommendation.


                      COURT PERSONNEL SYSTEM PAY BAND
                      FOR STUDENT TRAINEES

                               Currently, the minimum classification level within the Court Personnel
                      System (CPS) at which an individual may be appointed requires a high school
                      diploma or equivalent. In order to provide circuit and court units with the
                      ability to employ students in CPS positions on a temporary basis, during
                      vacation periods, or on a part-time basis during school, the Committee
                      recommended, and the Conference approved, the following:

                      a.       That a pay band be established in the Court Personnel System for
                               student trainees who are employed on a temporary basis during vacation
                               periods or on a part-time basis while in school;

                      b.       That the qualification requirements for entry to the pay band be the
                               conditions identified in the minimum age requirement for high school
                               students, as outlined in the Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 12, Ch. 5,
                               § 520.30.20(c), Employment, High School Student;

                      c.       That an individual may be appointed into an ungraded Court Personnel
                               System student trainee position at a base salary anywhere from a rate
                               equivalent to the federal minimum wage rate up to a rate equal to that
                               of a classification level (CL)-21, step 1; and

                      d.       That the appointing officer have the discretionary authority to adjust
                               pay within the band.


                      REALTIME TRANSCRIPT FEES

                               To address the disparity in costs for realtime transcript services charged
                      to the first ordering party ($3.05 per page) compared to that charged to
                      subsequent parties ($1.20 per page), the Committee recommended that the

                                                              27

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                 March 15, 2011

                     Judicial Conference amend the maximum fees for realtime services so that all
                     parties to a case who receive a realtime feed pay the same amount for the
                     services that are received. The Committee recommended that the fees be based
                     on the number of feeds provided by a certified realtime court reporter as
                     follows:

                              •	       One feed, the ordering party pays $3.05 per page;
                              •	       Two to four feeds, each party receiving a feed pays $2.10 per
                                       page;
                              •	       Five or more feeds, each party receiving a feed pays $1.50 per
                                       page.

                     The Conference approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                     COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it asked the
                     Administrative Office to conduct a review of the amount, distribution, and use
                     of the Temporary Emergency Fund, which provides funding for judges to hire
                     additional chambers staff to assist with temporary work emergencies, and to
                     provide an analysis and options to the Committee at its December 2011
                     meeting. The Committee approved a proposed schedule for work measurement
                     studies in the courts and procedural steps for conducting the studies to maintain
                     staffing formula currency. The Committee also asked the Administrative
                     Office to conduct a work measurement study to measure all pro se law clerk
                     work associated with prisoner, non-prisoner pro se, and social security cases,
                     and to freeze the pro se law clerk allocation at current levels, pending the
                     results of the study. The Committee received an update on efforts to increase
                     diversity in the judiciary’s workforce, including through forming partnerships
                     with external organizations, such as the Just the Beginning Foundation.


             C OMMITTEE ON J UDICIAL S ECURITY

                      INTERNET SECURITY

                             Based on recommendations from an Administrative Office working
                      group whose mission was to develop strategies to mitigate the misuse of
                      judges’ names as domain names on the internet, as well as to address other



                                                               28

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                  March 15, 2011

                       internet threats to judges, the Committee recommended that the Conference
                       take the following actions:

                       a.	      Endorse the Seventh Circuit librarian’s program, procedure and
                                protocol as a national model program wherein circuit librarians would
                                monitor traditional media and the internet, including blogs and
                                accessible social media sites for mentions of federal judges (circuit,
                                district, magistrate, and bankruptcy) from their circuits, including
                                threats and/or inappropriate communications, and urge circuit
                                librarians, judges, and circuit judicial councils to consider adopting
                                and implementing the model program locally. Under this program —

                                (1) 	       Librarians and others who locate a threat or inappropriate
                                            communication should forward it immediately to the judge and
                                            the local U.S. Marshals Service (USMS) district office;

                                (2)	        Judges may choose not to participate, or may prefer to have
                                            chambers staff conduct the searches; and

                                (3)	        The librarians’ role is one of data gathering only and the
                                            primary responsibility for threat response, evaluation, and
                                            investigation remains with the USMS;

                       b.	      With regard to domain name issues, encourage judges to consult with
                                their librarians if the judges want routine searches performed to
                                determine if their names have been registered as domain names.
                                Librarians will also alert the judges to whom they are assigned if their
                                routine monitoring of the internet for judicial mentions uncovers the
                                potential misuse of a judge’s name as a domain name; and

                       c.	      With regard to ensuring that threats are reported to the USMS, urge
                                each circuit librarian to coordinate with individual judges and the local
                                USMS district office to assist in implementing the USMS protocol for
                                reporting information located by the librarians that contains sensitive
                                personal information about a judge or a judge’s family or that could be
                                interpreted as threatening (Protocol for Judges and the U.S. Marshals
                                Service, May 21, 2010).

                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.




                                                                   29

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 15, 2011



                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it discussed its work
                      to expand and formalize the provision of security awareness training for
                      judges through workshops, videos, and panel discussions. In addition, the
                      Committee was briefed on the status of the perimeter security pilot program at
                      the seven courthouses where the U.S. Marshals Service has assumed
                      responsibility for perimeter security guarding and equipment. The Committee
                      was advised that further congressional direction is required to define the future
                      of the program.


             C OMMITTEE ON THE A DMINISTRATION
             OF THE M AGISTRATE J UDGES S YSTEM

                      SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT REGULATIONS

                              Senior Judge Participation. Sections 503 and 504 of the Court
                      Security Improvement Act of 2007, Public Law No. 110-177, were
                      inconsistent on the issue of whether senior district judges must meet a
                      workload requirement in order to enjoy a statutory right to participate in the
                      selection and appointment of United States magistrate judges. Following
                      enactment of the Court Security Improvement Act, the Regulations of the
                      Judicial Conference of the United States Establishing Standards and
                      Procedures for the Appointment and Reappointment of United States
                      Magistrate Judges were amended to note the conflict in the law
                      (JCUS-SEP 08, pp. 29-30). This conflict has now been resolved with the
                      enactment of the Federal Judiciary Administrative Improvements Act of 2010,
                      Public Law No. 111-174. To reflect this statutory change, on recommendation
                      of the Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System, the
                      Conference amended the selection and appointment regulations to provide that
                      senior judges with at least a 50 percent workload in the preceding calendar
                      year may participate in the selection of new magistrate judges.

                              Section 3.02(d). Under section 3.02(d) of the selection and
                      appointment regulations for magistrate judges, a person who has served on a
                      merit selection panel for a court may not be considered for a subsequent
                      magistrate judge position by that court for a period of one year after
                      completion of such service, unless the Committee on the Administration of the
                      Magistrate Judges System grants a waiver. To clear up any ambiguity as to

                                                             30

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                March 15, 2011

                       when the one-year period begins and ends, the Conference approved a
                       recommendation of the Committee to amend section 3.02(d) to specify that
                       one year must elapse between the earlier of when a former panel submitted its
                       report to the court or when the member of that panel now seeking a position
                       resigned, and the date by which applications for a subsequent vacancy are due
                       to be submitted to the court, for that former merit selection panel member to
                       be considered for the subsequent magistrate judge position.


                       CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                               After consideration of the report of the Committee on the
                       Administration of the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of
                       the Director of the Administrative Office, the respective district courts, and
                       the judicial councils of the relevant circuits, the Judicial Conference
                       determined to make the following changes regarding magistrate judge
                       positions.

                       EIGHTH CIRCUIT

                       Western District of Missouri

                       1. 	     Authorized the magistrate judge positions at Kansas City in the
                                Western District of Missouri to exercise adjoining district jurisdiction
                                in the District of Kansas, and the magistrate judge positions at Kansas
                                City in the District of Kansas to exercise adjoining district jurisdiction
                                in the Western District of Missouri (see infra, “District of Kansas,”
                                p. 32); and

                       2.	      Made no other change in the number, locations, or arrangements of the
                                magistrate judge positions in the Western District of Missouri.

                       NINTH CIRCUIT

                       District of Alaska

                       1.	      Decreased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                                Ketchikan from Level 6 ($13,439 per annum) to Level 7 ($6,716 per
                                annum);




                                                                31

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                  March 15, 2011

                      2.	      Discontinued the part-time magistrate judge position at Kodiak upon
                               the retirement of the incumbent or December 31, 2011, whichever
                               occurs sooner; and

                      3.	      Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or
                               arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      Central District of California

                               Made no change in the location, salary, or arrangements of the part-
                               time magistrate judge position at Santa Barbara.

                      District of Oregon

                      1.	      Increased the salary of the part-time magistrate judge position at
                               Pendleton from Level 5 ($26,881 per annum) to Level 3 ($53,767 per
                               annum); and

                      2.	      Made no other change in the number, locations, salaries, or
                               arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the district.

                      TENTH CIRCUIT

                      District of Kansas

                               Authorized the magistrate judge positions at Kansas City in the
                               Western District of Missouri to exercise adjoining district jurisdiction
                               in the District of Kansas, and the magistrate judge positions at Kansas
                               City in the District of Kansas to exercise adjoining district jurisdiction
                               in the Western District of Missouri (see supra, “Western District of
                               Missouri,” p. 31).

                              The Judicial Conference agreed to make no change in the number,
                      locations, salaries, or arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in the
                      following districts: Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Southern District of
                      Ohio, Eastern District of Washington, District of Colorado, Western District
                      of Oklahoma, and Northern District of Georgia.




                                                               32

Judicial Conference of the United States                                            March 15, 2011



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                       reported that under the September 2004 Judicial Conference policy regarding
                       the review of magistrate judge position vacancies (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 26),
                       during the period between the Committee’s June 2010 and December 2010
                       meetings, the Committee chair approved filling fourteen magistrate judge
                       position vacancies in twelve district courts. At its December 2010 meeting,
                       the full Committee approved filling three magistrate judge position vacancies.
                       The Committee also received a progress report from a subcommittee on
                       long-range planning for the magistrate judges system.


              C OMMITTEE ON R ULES OF P RACTICE AND P ROCEDURE

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                       approved for publication proposed amendments to the Federal Rules of
                       Appellate and Criminal Procedure. The proposed amendments to Appellate
                       Rules 13, 14, and 24 would clarify procedures for taking a permissive
                       interlocutory appeal from the United States Tax Court and would more
                       accurately reflect the status of the Tax Court as a court. The proposed
                       amendment to Criminal Rule 11 would expand the colloquy under that rule to
                       advise a defendant of possible immigration consequences when the judge
                       accepts a guilty plea. The proposed rule amendments are expected to be
                       published for public comment in August 2011.


               C OMMITTEE ON S PACE AND F ACILITIES

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that it approved two
                       changes to the asset management planning business rules to help ensure that
                       the Committee’s consideration of GSA feasibility study requests for
                       recommendation to the Judicial Conference does not occur prematurely and to
                       encourage timely approval of long-range facilities plans. The Committee also
                       approved a request for chambers for a newly appointed Fourth Circuit judge.
                       The Committee was updated on the status of the three pilot tenant alterations

                                                            33

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 15, 2011

                      projects (in Des Moines, Iowa; Chicago, Illinois; and Washington, D.C.)
                      planned by the courts under the newly granted congressional authorization for
                      the GSA to delegate to the judiciary the authority to perform tenant alterations
                      projects costing up to $100,000.


             F UNDING
                              All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                      funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                      the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                      establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                    Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                    Presiding




                                                             34

