REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


September 17, 2013


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on September 17, 2013, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                     First Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                 Judge Paul J. Barbadoro,
                                        District of New Hampshire

                     Second Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Robert A. Katzmann
                                 Chief Judge Carol Bagley Amon,
                                        Eastern District of New York

                     Third Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                 Chief Judge Joy Flowers Conti,
                                        Western District of Pennsylvania

                     Fourth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.

                                 Chief Judge Deborah K. Chasanow,

                                        District of Maryland


                     Fifth Circuit:

                                 Chief Judge Carl E. Stewart
                                 Chief Judge Sarah S. Vance,
                                        Eastern District of Louisiana
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           September 17, 2013


                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alice M. Batchelder
                                           Chief Judge Thomas A. Varlan,
                                                  Eastern District of Tennessee

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook
                                           Chief Judge Rubén Castillo,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Rodney W. Sippel,
                                                  Eastern District of Missouri

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alex Kozinski
                                           Judge Robert S. Lasnik,
                                                  Western District of Washington

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe
                                           Judge Dee V. Benson,
                                                  District of Utah

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ed Carnes
                                           Judge W. Louis Sands,
                                                  Middle District of Georgia

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Merrick B. Garland
                                           Chief Judge Richard W. Roberts,
                                                  District of Columbia

                                                               2

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2013


                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Randall R. Rader

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Donald C. Pogue

                               The following Judicial Conference committee chairs also attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Steven M. Colloton, Julia Smith Gibbons,
                       Diarmuid F. O’Scannlain, Reena Raggi, John M. Rogers, Anthony J. Scirica,
                       Jeffrey S. Sutton, and Timothy M. Tymkovich; District Judges Nancy F. Atlas,
                       Robert Holmes Bell, Catherine C. Blake, David G. Campbell, Rosemary M.
                       Collyer, Sidney A. Fitzwater, Joseph H. McKinley, Jr., J. Frederick Motz,
                       Lawrence L. Piersol, Joel A. Pisano, Michael A. Ponsor, Julie A. Robinson,
                       and Richard W. Story; and Bankruptcy Judge Eugene R. Wedoff. Attending
                       as the bankruptcy judge and magistrate judge observers, respectively, were
                       Bankruptcy Judge Michael E. Romero and Magistrate Judge Thomas C.
                       Mummert, III. Sam Phillips of the Fourth Circuit represented the circuit
                       executives.

                               District Judge John D. Bates, Director of the Administrative Office of
                       the United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill
                       C. Sayenga, Deputy Director; Robert K. Loesche, General Counsel; Laura
                       C. Minor, Assistant Director, and Jeffrey A. Hennemuth, Deputy Assistant
                       Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Cordia A. Strom,
                       Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; and David A. Sellers, Assistant
                       Director, Public Affairs. District Judge Jeremy D. Fogel, Director, and John
                       S. Cooke, Deputy Director, Federal Judicial Center, and Chief District Judge
                       Patti B. Saris, Chair, and Kenneth P. Cohen, Staff Director, United States
                       Sentencing Commission, were in attendance at the session of the Conference,
                       as was Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to the Chief Justice, and Tonia Jones
                       Powell, Acting Supreme Court Legal Counsel.

                              Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., addressed the Conference on
                       matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice.
                       Senators Patrick J. Leahy and Mike Johanns and Representative John S.
                       Conyers, Jr., spoke on matters pending in Congress of interest to the
                       Conference.



                                                                3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2013



             REPORTS
                              Judge Bates reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                      courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge Fogel
                      spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC) programs, and
                      Chief Judge Saris reported on United States Sentencing Commission
                      activities. Judge Gibbons, Chair of the Committee on the Budget, presented a
                      special report on budgetary matters.


             EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
                      RESOLUTION

                              The Judicial Conference approved a recommendation of the Executive
                      Committee to adopt the following resolution recognizing the substantial
                      contributions made by Judicial Conference committee chairs whose terms of
                      service end in 2013:

                               The Judicial Conference of the United States recognizes with
                               appreciation, respect, and admiration the following judicial
                               officers:

                                       HONORABLE JOY FLOWERS CONTI
                                 Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System

                                           HONORABLE ROBERT HOLMES BELL
                                                Committee on Criminal Law

                                           HONORABLE ROSEMARY M. COLLYER
                                             Committee on Information Technology

                                             HONORABLE J. FREDERICK MOTZ
                                              Committee on Intercircuit Assignments

                                            HONORABLE MICHAEL A. PONSOR
                                              Committee on Space and Facilities

                               Appointed as committee chairs by the Chief Justice of the
                               United States, these outstanding jurists have played a vital role


                                                               4

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2013


                                in the administration of the federal court system. These judges
                                served with distinction as leaders of their Judicial Conference
                                committees while, at the same time, continuing to perform their
                                duties as judges in their own courts. They have set a standard
                                of skilled leadership and earned our deep respect and sincere
                                gratitude for their innumerable contributions. We acknowledge
                                with appreciation their commitment and dedicated service to
                                the Judicial Conference and to the entire federal judiciary.


                       BUDGETARY MATTERS

                               Fiscal Year 2013 Final Financial Plans. Following enactment of the
                       Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2013 (Pub. L. No.
                       113-6), which funded the judiciary in fiscal year (FY) 2013 at approximately
                       FY 2012 levels, less a 0.2 percent rescission and less sequestration cuts
                       mandated by the Budget Control Act of 2011, the Executive Committee, at an
                       April 2013 video conference, approved final FY 2013 financial plans for the
                       Salaries and Expenses (S&E), Defender Services, Court Security, and Fees of
                       Jurors and Commissioners accounts. The final financial plans incorporated
                       emergency measures that were developed by the Executive Committee (acting
                       in consultation with Conference committees and Administrative Office
                       advisory councils) to address the deep, across-the-board cuts resulting from
                       sequestration.

                               With regard to the final financial plan for the Defender Services
                       account, the Executive Committee took steps to address concerns that
                       sequestration and other budget cuts could result in lengthy furloughs of federal
                       defender organization staff and deferrals of panel attorney payments. Initially,
                       the Executive Committee directed that funds in the final FY 2013 plan be
                       allocated in the Defender Services account to limit to 15 the number of days
                       staff would be furloughed for the remainder of FY 2013, and to also limit to
                       15 the number of days panel attorney payments would be deferred from
                       FY 2013 to FY 2014. However, noting that federal defender offices have
                       addressed the severe budget cuts in different ways, not just through furloughs,
                       the Defender Services Committee asked the Executive Committee to
                       reconsider the allocation of the $6.4 million that was directed to limiting
                       furloughs to 15 days, so that some relief could be provided to all federal
                       defender offices, not just to those with the highest number of anticipated
                       furlough days. At a May 2013 video conference, the Executive Committee
                       agreed to modify allocation of the $6.4 million so that staff furloughs would

                                                              5

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2013


                      be limited to no more than 20 days for the remainder of FY 2013. The
                      remaining funds (minus a small reserve) would be distributed pro rata, based
                      on each federal defender organization’s approved FY 2013 budget, to those
                      offices that already anticipated furloughs of 20 or fewer days, with the proviso
                      that the latter offices be encouraged to use the money to further reduce
                      furlough days. The Executive Committee also requested a study to better
                      determine the needs of the federal defender organizations.

                              Anticipated Shortfall in Fiscal Year 2014 Defender Services Account.
                      At the request of the Defender Services Committee, the Executive Committee,
                      at its August 2013 meeting, discussed how to address an anticipated shortfall
                      in FY 2014 funding for the Defender Services account. Determining that the
                      impending shortfall constituted an emergency requiring immediate action to
                      preserve the appointed counsel criminal defense function performed in the
                      judiciary, the Executive Committee made a commitment to ensure sufficient
                      funding in FY 2014 to maintain virtually 100 percent of the projected
                      nationwide on-board staffing of federal defender organizations as of
                      September 30, 2013. Absent additional funding or other steps to reduce
                      funding requirements, this would be achieved by deferring up to four weeks of
                      panel attorney payments from FY 2014 to FY 2015, and by a temporary
                      $15.00 per hour reduction (authorized by the Executive Committee at its
                      August 2013 meeting on an emergency basis on behalf of the Judicial
                      Conference) in the panel attorney compensation rates for capital and non-
                      capital case representations, which the Conference has otherwise authorized
                      pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §§ 3599(g)(1) and 3006A(d)(1), for work performed
                      between September 1, 2013 and the end of FY 2014.

                              Fiscal Year 2014 Interim Financial Plans. Pending final congressional
                      action on the judiciary’s appropriations for FY 2014, the Executive
                      Committee, in September 2013, approved FY 2014 interim financial plans for
                      the Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, Court Security, and Fees of
                      Jurors and Commissioners accounts. The interim plan for the S&E account
                      assumes total available resources of $5,120.3 million, a decrease of 0.6
                      percent from the FY 2013 financial plan and a $334.7 million shortfall from
                      current requirements. Therefore, in approving the interim S&E plan, the
                      Executive Committee continued (with some modifications) several of the
                      emergency sequestration measures adopted for FY 2013. The S&E plan also
                      incorporates a strategy for distributing allotments to court units. For the
                      Defender Services account, the interim plan implements decisions made by the
                      Executive Committee at its August 2013 meeting (see supra) by including
                      funding to maintain projected on-board federal defender organization staffing

                                                             6

Judicial Conference of the United States 	                                            September 17, 2013


                       nationally as of the end of FY 2013, assuming deferral of panel attorney
                       payments for approximately four weeks in September 2014, and incorporating
                       the temporary reduction of $15 per hour in panel attorney rates for capital and
                       non-capital representations that went into effect on September 1, 2013, and
                       applies to work performed through September 30, 2014.

                               Fiscal Year 2015 Federal Defender Organization Funding. Noting that
                       the Judicial Resources Committee is currently developing a federal defender
                       organization (FDO) staffing formula for implementation in FY 2016, the
                       Executive Committee determined to review the methodology for allocating
                       FDO funding at its February 2014 meeting so that potential interim funding
                       alternatives might be considered before individual FY 2015 FDO budgets are
                       formulated.


                       MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                               The Executive Committee —

                       •	      Approved on behalf of the Judicial Conference a recommendation
                               from the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                               to seek legislation abolishing one of the divisions in the Southern
                               District of Mississippi and making other associated changes in the
                               divisional structure of that district.

                       •	      Endorsed on behalf of the Conference the Chief Justice’s selection of
                               Judge John D. Bates of the United States District Court for the District
                               of Columbia to serve as the Director of the Administrative Office,
                               effective July 1, 2013.

                       •	      Approved on behalf of the Conference a recommendation of the
                               Committee on Space and Facilities to evaluate under the Asset
                               Management Planning (AMP) process those projects on the current
                               Five-Year Courthouse Project Plan that have not been so evaluated
                               and are not approved for funding in fiscal year 2014 by the responsible
                               Senate and House appropriations committees.

                       •	      Approved on behalf of the Judicial Conference a resolution in
                               recognition of Judge Thomas F. Hogan’s service as the Director of the
                               Administrative Office from 2011-2013.


                                                              7

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                              September 17, 2013


                      •	       Approved technical, conforming, and non-substantive revisions to The
                               Judicial Conference of the United States and Its Committees.

                      •	       Reviewed Conference committees’ suggestions for potential legislative
                               changes that might facilitate, or remove impediments to, cost
                               containment, and requested that committees complete any additional
                               research or coordination among committees required for these
                               suggestions to be addressed on the merits during the next cycle of
                               committee meetings.

                      •	       Declined to recommend expanding the membership of the Committee
                               on Judicial Security to include an Article III judge representative of the
                               national courts.


             COMMITTEE ON AUDITS AND
             ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE ACCOUNTABILITY
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                      reported that it assessed the impact of emergency budget reductions on the
                      judiciary’s audit program for fiscal year 2013, and advised the Administrative
                      Office on audit program priorities for 2013 and 2014. The Committee also
                      considered measures to contain costs within the audit program. Independent
                      audit firms briefed the Committee on cyclical audits of courts, federal public
                      defender offices, community defender organization grantees, and Chapter 7
                      bankruptcy trustees, and on a special audit of a Chapter 13 bankruptcy trustee.


             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
             OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                      IN FORMA PAUPERIS PROCEDURES

                               In 2005, Congress enacted the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and
                      Consumer Protection Act (BAPCPA) (Pub. L. No. 109-8), which authorized a
                      district or bankruptcy court to waive filing and other fees in cases under
                      chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code for individuals unable to pay. To facilitate


                                                               8

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2013


                       timely implementation of the Act, in August 2005, the Executive Committee,
                       acting on behalf of the Judicial Conference, adopted interim procedures for in
                       forma pauperis waivers of chapter 7 filing fees (JCUS-SEP 05, p. 5). At this
                       session, the Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                       recommended final procedures that take into account case law developments
                       and practical experiences in the courts since BAPCPA was enacted and that
                       expand the waiver procedures to cover fees other than filing fees. The Judicial
                       Conference approved the final in forma pauperis procedures, and authorized
                       the Bankruptcy Committee to make non-substantive, technical, or conforming
                       revisions to the procedures, as necessary.


                       TEMPORARY BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                               At its March 2013 session, the Judicial Conference agreed to
                       recommend to Congress 31 new bankruptcy judgeships in 17 judicial districts
                       and conversion of 20 of 34 existing temporary judgeships to permanent status,
                       with language in the transmittal letter to acknowledge the dire fiscal realities
                       in the federal government and that some prioritization may have to occur
                       (JCUS-MAR 13, pp. 7-8). Given the unlikelihood that comprehensive
                       judgeship legislation would be enacted in the near future, later that month, the
                       Executive Committee asked the Bankruptcy Committee to consider how to
                       prioritize the need for judgeships within the Conference’s overall judgeship
                       recommendation to Congress. Based on weighted caseload, the Committee
                       recommended that any or all of the 20 conversions of temporary judgeships to
                       permanent status should be pursued on a priority basis. But recognizing that
                       legislation to secure all 20 conversions may also be unattainable, the
                       Committee developed a methodology to further prioritize judgeship requests
                       by identifying courts whose need for judgeships would be considered an
                       emergency. To ensure that the list of districts that have emergency needs is
                       based on the most up-to-date data available, the Committee recommended that
                       it be consulted at the time a legislative opportunity to pursue judgeships arises.
                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation to authorize the
                       Director of the Administrative Office, in consultation with the Bankruptcy
                       Committee, and subject to the approval of the Executive Committee, to seek
                       legislation to convert to permanent status any or all of the temporary
                       bankruptcy judgeships that are included in the 2013 Judicial Conference
                       bankruptcy judgeship recommendations.




                                                               9

Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 17, 2013



                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                      reported that it recommended to the Intercircuit Assignments Committee, for
                      consideration by the Judicial Conference, administrative procedures to
                      implement the latter committee’s responsibility to review future intercircuit
                      assignments of bankruptcy judges (see infra, “Guidelines for the Intercircuit
                      Assignment of Bankruptcy and Magistrate Judges,” p. 22). The Bankruptcy
                      Committee recommended that the Budget Committee approve a FY 2015
                      budget request that provides current funding levels for bankruptcy judges,
                      recalled bankruptcy judges, and temporary law clerks and restoration of
                      funding for the bankruptcy administrator program that was lost as a result of
                      sequestration. The Bankruptcy Committee expressed opposition to the idea of
                      abolishing bankruptcy appellate panels because it would not result in
                      substantial cost savings or efficiencies and would impose a significant burden
                      on the resources of the district courts and courts of appeals.


             COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
                      FISCAL YEAR 2015 BUDGET REQUEST

                              Taking into consideration the difficult budget climate as well as the
                      impact of sequestration cuts required by the Budget Control Act of 2011 on
                      court operational requirements, the Budget Committee made adjustments to
                      the FY 2015 budget requests of the program committees to bring the overall
                      appropriation request down from $6,771 million (a 6.8 percent increase over
                      assumed appropriations for fiscal year 2014) to $6,708.8 million (a 5.8 percent
                      increase over fiscal year 2014 assumed appropriations). The Judicial
                      Conference approved the Budget Committee’s fiscal year 2015 budget request
                      with one modification (an additional $21.0 million request for the Court
                      Security account). The modification was taken up as new business following
                      the Judicial Sercurity Committee’s withdrawal on the Conference floor of a
                      recommendation to reduce overnight and weekend courthouse security
                      coverage (see infra, “Courthouse Security Coverage,” p. 27). The Conference
                      approved the budget request subject to amendments necessary as a result of
                      (a) new legislation, (b) actions of the Judicial Conference, or (c) any other
                      reason the Executive Committee considers necessary and appropriate.



                                                            10

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2013



                       REPROGRAMMING LAW BOOK FUNDS

                                To provide circuits with a financial incentive to begin closing satellite
                       libraries, the Budget Committee recommended modification to the
                       reprogramming rules under the budget decentralization program. Specifically,
                       the Committee recommended that if a circuit judicial council agrees to close a
                       satellite library, reprogramming of 100 percent of the law book funding
                       associated with that library should be permitted on a one-time basis to other
                       courts of appeals accounts, as well as to the circuits’s tenant alterations and
                       temporary emergency fund accounts, subject to the approval of the chief
                       circuit judge or his/her designee. In addition, regardless of whether a satellite
                       library is closed, it is recommended that a court of appeals should be permitted
                       to reprogram up to 50 percent of its annual law book allotment to other courts
                       of appeals accounts, as well as to the circuit’s tenant alterations and temporary
                       emergency fund accounts, subject to the approval of the chief circuit judge or
                       his/her designee. Funds would continue to be prohibited from being
                       reprogrammed from other areas into law books. The Judicial Conference
                       approved the Committee’s recommendation beginning with the fiscal year
                       2014 financial plan, effective October 1, 2013.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Budget reported that it discussed possible
                       incentives to accelerating cost containment, particularly in the areas of
                       libraries, space, and probation and pretrial services. The Committee also
                       discussed the impact of sequestration on judiciary operations. Members
                       discussed progress made to date on congressional outreach and education,
                       including partnership activities with the Judicial Branch Committee, as well as
                       strategies for obtaining a significant funding anomaly (increase) in a full-year
                       continuing resolution for fiscal year 2014, should Congress enact such a
                       continuing resolution.


              COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in March 2013, the Committee received 24

                                                              11

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                               September 17, 2013


                      new written inquiries and issued 22 written advisory responses. During this
                      period, the average response time for requests was 15 days. In addition, the
                      Committee chair responded to 26 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                      members responded to 124 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                      responded to 389 informal inquiries.


             COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
             AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                       LIBRARIES

                               Headquarters and Satellite Libraries. As a part of an ongoing effort to
                       reduce library costs wherever possible, the Committee on Court
                       Administration and Case Management, in collaboration with the Committees
                       on Judicial Resources and Space and Facilities, has undertaken a
                       comprehensive evaluation of the library program. Pending completion of a
                       report and recommendations from that study, the Committee recommended
                       that circuit judicial councils renew an effort initiated in 2010 (JCUS-SEP 10,
                       pp. 14-15), to determine the continuing need for each library. Specifically, the
                       Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference—

                       a.	      Direct each circuit judicial council, working with its circuit librarians,
                                library committees, and relevant judges, to review headquarters and
                                satellite libraries to assess the continuing need for each library. If a
                                judicial council determines that a library remains essential, the council
                                must explore opportunities to reduce the size of the library. The
                                assessments should include consideration of specific factors identified
                                by the Committee.

                       b.	      Direct each circuit judicial council to report the results of its
                                assessments to the chairs of the Court Administration and Case
                                Management Committee, the Space and Facilities Committee, and the
                                Judicial Resources Committee by March 31, 2014, and, if there are no
                                closures or reductions taken or planned, provide an explanation as to
                                why it is not efficient or practical to do so for each library.

                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.

                             Chambers Collections. In order to reduce the funds spent by circuits
                       on chambers library collections, the Committee recommended, and the

                                                                12

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 17, 2013


                        Judicial Conference adopted, amendments to the judiciary’s policy on legal
                        research resources available to judges (Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 21,
                        Ch. 3) to provide that judges co-located with other judges, but not a library,
                        work with their librarian to ensure that only primary materials and limited
                        secondary materials are acquired, and that efforts are made to share materials
                        across chambers to avoid duplication.


                        MISCELLANEOUS FEES

                                Court of Appeals Docketing Fee. On recommendation of the
                        Committee, the Judicial Conference amended Item 1 of the Court of Appeals
                        Miscellaneous Fee Schedule to raise the fee for docketing a case on appeal or
                        review, or docketing any other proceeding, from $450 to $500, effective
                        December 1, 2013. This increase is similar to the $50 administrative fee
                        recently adopted for civil cases (JCUS-SEP 12, p. 13) and the long-standing
                        administrative fee for bankruptcy cases.

                                Motions for Selling Property Free and Clear of Liens. The Committee
                        recommended that the Conference amend Item 19 of the Bankruptcy Court
                        Miscellaneous Fee Schedule to establish a new fee of $176 in bankruptcy
                        cases for the filing of motions for the sale of property free and clear of liens
                        under 11 U.S.C. § 363(f). The new fee is intended to reflect the significant
                        workload burdens imposed on courts to resolve these motions. The
                        Conference adopted the new fee, effective December 1, 2013.

                                Records Retrieval Fee. The Committee recommended that the Judicial
                        Conference amend Item 7 of the Court of Appeals and District Court
                        Miscellaneous Fee Schedules, Item 12 of the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous
                        Fee Schedule, Item 11 of the United States Court of Federal Claims Fee
                        Schedule, and Item 4 of the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation Fee
                        Schedule to increase the records retrieval fee by $11 (from $53 to $64) for the
                        first box requested from a federal records center or other storage location
                        removed from the place of business of the court, and to create a new fee of
                        $39 for each additional box requested. These fees are intended to recoup
                        some of the rising shipping and processing costs for handling paper records.
                        The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation, effective
                        December 1, 2013.

                               Returned Check Fee. The Committee recommended that the Judicial
                        Conference amend the “returned check” language in each of the miscellaneous


                                                               13

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2013


                       fee schedules, effective December 1, 2013, to reflect that payments are now
                       generally made electronically. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
                       recommendation, amending Item 8 of the Court of Appeals and District Court
                       Miscellaneous Fee Schedules, Item 13 of the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous
                       Fee Schedule, Item 7 of the United States Court of Federal Claims and
                       Electronic Public Access Fee Schedules, and Item 5 of the Judicial Panel on
                       Multidistrict Litigation Fee Schedule as follows (new language in bold,
                       deleted language struck through):

                                For a check paid into the court which is returned for lack of
                                funds any payment returned or denied for insufficient
                                funds, $53.


                       CAMERA PILOT PROJECT

                                In September 2010, the Judicial Conference approved a three-year pilot
                       program in 14 courts to evaluate the effect of cameras in district court
                       courtrooms, video recordings of proceedings therein, and publication of such
                       video recordings (JCUS-SEP 10, pp. 11-12). Due to delayed start dates in
                       some courts, only half of the pilot districts will have participated for three
                       years by the end date of the pilot program. In order to provide most pilot
                       districts with three full years of experience, the Committee recommended, and
                       the Conference approved, a one-year extension of the cameras-in-the­
                       courtroom pilot project, to run through July 18, 2015.


                       RECORDS MANAGEMENT

                                Circuit Mediation Records. Circuit mediation offices are units of the
                       courts of appeals, but their records are maintained separately from the courts’
                       case files for confidentiality purposes. The Committee recommended that the
                       Judicial Conference amend Item B(3) of Records Disposition Schedule 1 to
                       treat circuit mediation records in the same manner as staff attorney records,
                       which are disposed of as directed by the court and are not transferred to
                       federal records centers. The Conference agreed and authorized the revised
                       schedule to be transmitted to the National Archives and Records
                       Administration (NARA) for concurrence.

                              Bankruptcy Administrator Records. Bankruptcy administrators
                       operate in the six judicial districts in Alabama and North Carolina, performing

                                                               14

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2013


                        functions similar to those assigned to United States trustees, including
                        overseeing the administration of bankruptcy cases and maintaining a panel of
                        private trustees in each district. The Court Administration and Case
                        Management Committee, in consultation with the Bankruptcy Committee,
                        recommended that the Judicial Conference adopt a records disposition
                        schedule for bankruptcy administrator records (new Item D(2) of Records
                        Disposition Schedule 2) that mirrors the dispositions established by the
                        executive branch for United States trustee records. The Conference approved
                        the Committee’s recommendation and authorized the revised schedule to be
                        transmitted to NARA for concurrence.

                                Federal Defender Organization Records. On recommendation of the
                        Committee, the Judicial Conference approved a records disposition schedule
                        for the administrative (i.e., non-case-related) records of federal defender
                        organizations, to be incorporated in both Records Disposition Schedules 1 and
                        2 as a new Item D(1). The schedule was developed in consultation with the
                        Defender Services Committee and the AO’s Defender Services Advisory
                        Group, and with substantial input from the defender services community. The
                        Conference authorized the revised schedules to be transmitted to NARA for
                        concurrence.

                                Criminal Case Files. The Committee recommended amendments to
                        the disposition schedule for criminal case files (Item A(6) of Records
                        Disposition Schedule 2) to ensure that the files, particularly in cases with
                        lengthy sentences, are available for purposes of appeal. The Conference
                        approved the Committee’s recommendation and authorized the revised
                        schedule to be transmitted to NARA for concurrence.

                                 Territorial District Court Files. In September 1979, the Judicial
                        Conference approved a records disposition schedule for territorial district
                        courts that provided for the permanent preservation of civil case files
                        pertaining to domestic relations, adoption, mental incompetence, and probate
                        matters, but treated all other civil case files in those courts in the same way as
                        civil district court files. Subsequently, the guidance for territorial courts was
                        moved to its own section (currently Item 12 of Records Disposition Schedule
                        2), and the guidance was inadvertently changed to make all records from those
                        courts permanent. In order to return to the original intention for territorial
                        district court cases, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference
                        amend Item A(12) to indicate that it is superseded by the provisions that apply
                        to district court case files generally, and to amend Item A(7)(a) to provide for
                        the permanent retention of domestic relations, adoption, mental incompetence,
                        and probate records of the territorial district courts. The Conference approved

                                                               15

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                  September 17, 2013


                       the revisions and authorized the revised schedule to be transmitted to NARA
                       for concurrence.


                       JUROR QUESTIONNAIRE

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference made
                       several changes to the juror qualification questionnaire to address concerns
                       raised by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in its opinion in United States v.
                       Hernandez-Estrada, 704 F.3d 1015 (9th Cir. 2012), reh’g granted on other
                       grounds, 729 F.3d 1224 (9th Cir. 2013) (en banc). The changes to the juror
                       qualification questionnaire are as follows:

                                a.      Question 4 is amended to read:

                                            4a.	   Do you speak the English language? Yes ____ No ____

                                            4b.	    Do you read, write, and understand the English
                                                   language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to
                                                   complete this questionnaire?
                                                   Yes ____ No ____

                                b.      Question 10 is amended to read:

                                            10.	 Are you Hispanic or Latino? Yes ____ No ____

                                c.      Question 11 is added as follows:

                                            Federal law requires you to indicate your race in order to
                                            avoid discrimination in jury selection. (See note on reverse
                                            side.) Please fill in completely one or more circles that
                                            describe your race.

                                d.      The Important Directions section is amended to read:

                                            Important Directions
                                            Save time and money by completing this form on the court’s
                                            website.

                                            If completing the paper copy:
                                                  •      Use a No. 2 pencil
                                                  •      Do not use ink or ballpoint pen

                                                                  16

Judicial Conference of the United States 	                                            September 17, 2013


                                                •	     Make heavy black marks that fill in the circle
                                                       completely
                                                •	     Erase any changes completely
                                                •	     Do not write in margins or in “official use only”
                                                       areas

                                e. 	    Question 13 (Education) and Question 15 (Marital Status) are
                                        deleted.


                        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                        reported that, in conjunction with the Criminal Law and Defender Services
                        Committees, it is considering procedures to limit access to cooperation
                        information contained in court filings, docket sheets, and transcripts. The
                        Committee also is developing guidance for courts, in cooperation with the
                        Judicial Branch and Codes of Conduct Committees, on the use of social media
                        for official purposes. In addition, the Committee continues to oversee the
                        congressionally mandated patent pilot, and is tracking legislative proposals
                        that seek changes to patent case management in federal courts.


              COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                       JUSTICE SAFETY VALVE ACT OF 2013

                               The proposed Justice Safety Valve Act of 2013 (S. 619, 113th Cong.)
                       would grant judges greater flexibility in sentencing federal crimes in cases
                       where the judges determine that the specified mandatory minimum punishment
                       is unnecessary. The Judicial Conference has long been opposed to mandatory
                       minimum sentences and supports their repeal (e.g., JCUS-SEP 95, p. 47;
                       JCUS-SEP 93, p. 46; JCUS-MAR 93, p. 13; JCUS-SEP 91, p. 56; JCUS­
                       SEP 90, p. 62; JCUS-MAR 90, p. 16; JCUS-SEP 81, pp. 90, 93; JCUS­
                       APR 76, p. 10; JCUS-OCT 71, p. 40; JCUS-MAR 65, p. 20; JCUS-MAR 62,
                       p. 22; JCUS-SEP 61, p. 98; JCUS-SEP 53, pp. 28-29). On recommendation of
                       the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek legislation, such as the
                       Justice Safety Valve Act of 2013, that is designed to restore judges’ sentencing
                       discretion and avoid the costs associated with mandatory minimum sentences.



                                                              17

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2013



                      EARLY TERMINATION OF SUPERVISION

                              Section 3583(e)(1) of title 18, U.S. Code, requires at least one year of
                      supervised release after incarceration before the supervision can be terminated
                      early, and specifies that early termination may occur only when warranted by
                      the conduct of the defendant released and the interest of justice. However there
                      are cases where early termination would be appropriate prior to one year, and
                      based on factors independent of the offender’s conduct, for example where
                      defendants are physically incapacitated, dying, or aged to the point that they are
                      no longer a risk to the community and cannot meaningfully engage in the
                      supervision process. Noting that it makes little policy or financial sense to
                      keep such cases under supervision, the Committee recommended that the
                      Judicial Conference seek legislation that permits the early termination of
                      supervision terms, without regard to the limitations in 18 U.S.C. § 3583(e)(1),
                      for an inmate who is compassionately released from prison under section
                      3582(c) of that title. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
                      recommendation.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Criminal Law reported that pursuant to its authority
                      to approve technical, conforming, and non-controversial changes to
                      monographs for probation and pretrial services officers (JCUS-MAR 06, p. 15),
                      it approved revisions to Monograph 113, The Federal Location Monitoring
                      Program, that address implementation and monitoring protocols. In addition,
                      the Committee shared with all chief district judges a report on the early
                      termination of probation and supervised release that confirmed that the
                      judiciary’s policies on early termination allow probation officers to make
                      responsible decisions about which offenders to recommend for early
                      termination. More than 7,000 offenders were terminated early from
                      supervision in fiscal year 2012, saving the judiciary more than $7.7 million.
                      The Committee continued its discussion with the United States Sentencing
                      Commission on the Commission’s report to Congress on post-Booker
                      sentencing.




                                                             18

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2013


              COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Defender Services reported that it met with Deputy
                       Attorney General James Cole, who expressed an interest in exploring ways to
                       address Department of Justice policies and practices that are having a
                       significant cost impact on the Defender Services program (e.g., discovery
                       issues and the Department of Justice non-death penalty authorization protocol).
                       The Committee approved a training spending plan for FY 2014 that, due to
                       budgetary limitations, reflects a reduction of approximately 33 percent from the
                       original FY 2013 spending authorizations. The Committee reviewed the final
                       report of a task force that studied the implementation and effects of the federal
                       defender organization case weights methodology in selected districts.


              COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
                       IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION

                               The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reviewed comprehensive
                       immigration reform legislation pending in the 113th Congress (S. 744, the
                       “Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act
                       of 2013”), with specific focus on the points at which administrative decisions
                       would be likely to come to the federal courts for judicial review. Based on that
                       review, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference provide
                       comments to Congress on the following provisions of S. 744, or any similar
                       legislation, as those provisions relate to the administration of justice. Adopting
                       the Committee’s recommendation, the Judicial Conference agreed to—

                       a.       Express concern with provisions in section 3 that would provide for
                                direct review of federal district court decisions in the Supreme Court by
                                writ of certiorari. Such review would bypass the review that ordinarily
                                occurs at the court of appeals level and circumvent the development of
                                legal interpretations through the various circuits;

                       b.       Express concern with (and recommend deletion of) provisions in
                                Title III of S. 744 related to judicial review of agency administrative
                                decisions as to the imposition of fines and penalties against employers
                                that would require a court of appeals to consider any additional
                                evidence the court finds was unavailable at the time of the

                                                               19

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2013


                               administrative hearing, and seek language to clarify that if a court
                               determines that additional evidence is required, the court has authority
                               to remand the action to the appropriate administrative agency for
                               additional fact-finding;

                      c.       Express concern with the time limitations provided in Title III of S. 744
                               with respect to challenges to the validity of the implementation of the
                               E-Verify System, because such limitations raise possible due process
                               issues and may effectively deny the federal courts jurisdiction to
                               provide complete relief;

                      d.       Based on long-standing policy of the Conference, express support for a
                               strong administrative adjudicative process that requires agencies to
                               engage in thorough administrative review, including substantial
                               fact-finding, to ensure federal courts are provided a complete
                               evidentiary record upon which to base judicial review; and

                      e.       Continue to seek necessary funding and resources to enable the federal
                               courts to fairly and timely carry out the responsibilities that will be
                               imposed by comprehensive immigration reform legislation, in keeping
                               with the judiciary’s constitutionally mandated mission to render justice.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it considered
                      legislation pending in the 113th Congress that would punish acts of violence
                      directed at federal officers and certain state officers, focusing on the aspects of
                      the proposed legislation that would curtail the scope of federal habeas corpus
                      review for those convicted of such crimes and would limit the reach of section
                      1983 remedies in specified cases. The Committee was also briefed on
                      proposals that would create expedited procedures for certain “small” copyright
                      and patent infringement cases. In addition, the Committee was informed that
                      the Federal Judicial Center launched a new website in April 2013, which will
                      serve as a clearinghouse for information on the coordination and management
                      of related cases pending simultaneously in state and federal courts. The
                      website is the culmination of a project involving the Federal Judicial Center,
                      the Conference of Chief Justices, the National Center for State Courts, and the
                      Committee.




                                                              20

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2013


              COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that it determined to
                       establish specific procedures for securing filer compliance with all reporting
                       requirements and late filing assessments. It also reported that the use of the
                       Financial Disclosure Online Filing System (FiDO) has resulted in significant
                       savings in printing, copying, and mailing costs. As of July 8, 2013, the
                       Committee had received 4,074 annual financial disclosure reports and
                       certifications for calendar year 2012, including 1,264 reports and certifications
                       from Supreme Court justices, Article III judges, and judicial officers of special
                       courts; 357 reports from bankruptcy judges; 534 reports from magistrate
                       judges; and 1,919 reports from judicial employees.


               COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                       LONG RANGE PLAN FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

                               Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 612 and on recommendation of the Committee
                       on Information Technology, the Judicial Conference approved the fiscal year
                       2014 update to the Long Range Plan for Information Technology in the
                       Federal Judiciary. Funds for the judiciary’s information technology program
                       will be spent in accordance with this plan.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Information Technology reported that it identified
                       the specific expenses within the operations and maintenance portion of the
                       judiciary’s information technology (IT) budget that must be funded to continue
                       to provide the basic capabilities now in place. If fiscal year 2014 funding
                       remains at the sequestration level, only these expenses will be funded; no
                       funding will be available for other operations and maintenance expenses,
                       strategic investments, or development and enhancement efforts. In light of
                       attacks on certain of the judiciary’s public websites and to strengthen the
                       judiciary’s security posture, the Committee endorsed national IT security
                       policies that provide for courts to install intrusion protection software, to have
                       public websites scanned for vulnerabilities upon initial deployment and


                                                               21

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2013


                      whenever software or system-level changes are made, and to resolve high-risk
                      vulnerabilities in a timely manner.


            COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
                      GUIDELINES FOR THE INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENT OF
                      BANKRUPTCY AND MAGISTRATE JUDGES

                              In February 2013, the Executive Committee amended the jurisdiction of
                      the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments to give that committee primary
                      responsibility for recommending guidelines to the Judicial Conference
                      governing the intercircuit assignment of magistrate and bankruptcy judges.
                      The Committee already had jurisdiction over the intercircuit assignment of
                      Article III judges. The intent was to foster the coordinated, consistent, and
                      cost-conscious utilization of visiting judges by having a single lead committee
                      provide oversight and policy advice regarding all visiting judge assignments.
                      At this session, on recommendation of the Committee on Intercircuit
                      Assignments, in consultation with the Committees on the Administration of the
                      Bankruptcy System and the Magistrate Judges System, the Judicial Conference
                      adopted amendments to the Guidelines for Intracircuit and Intercircuit
                      Assignments of Bankruptcy Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy (Guide), Vol. 3,
                      Ch. 6, and the Guidelines for Intracircuit and Intercircuit Assignments of
                      Magistrate Judges, Guide, Vol. 3, Ch. 7, to implement the new arrangement.
                      The chief judge of a circuit requesting the intercircuit assignment of a
                      bankruptcy judge and the chief judge of a district court requesting the
                      intercircuit assignment of a magistrate judge will now be required to submit the
                      requests to the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments for its review in
                      advance of the assignment.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that it
                      recommended, and the Chief Justice approved, 107 intercircuit assignments
                      undertaken by 89 Article III judges from January 1, 2013, to June 30, 2013.
                      During this time, the Committee continued to disseminate information about
                      intercircuit assignments and to aid courts requesting assistance by identifying
                      and obtaining judges willing to take assignments.



                                                             22

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2013


              COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                       involvement in rule of law and judicial reform activities throughout the world,
                       highlighting activities in East Asia and the Pacific, Europe and Eurasia, Latin
                       America, the Middle East and North Africa, and South and Central Asia. The
                       Committee also received reports on rule of law activities from the Departments
                       of State, Justice, and Commerce, the United States Agency for International
                       Development, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the Open World
                       Program at the Library of Congress, the World Bank, and the Federal Judicial
                       Center, as well as from a liaison for federal court administrators. The
                       Committee also reported on the briefings for foreign delegations of jurists and
                       judicial personnel provided at the Administrative Office.


              COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
                       JUDGES’ TRAVEL REGULATIONS

                               On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
                       Judicial Conference approved amendments to sections 220.30.10(g)(2)(A),
                       250.20.10, and 250.40.40 of the Travel Regulations for United States Justices
                       and Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 19, Ch. 2, to ensure that the Travel
                       Regulations are consistent with Internal Revenue Service regulations by
                       specifying that reimbursement for meal costs incurred on same-day travel is
                       prohibited in certain circumstances and considered taxable income when
                       allowed.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it endorsed the
                       sending of a list of “best practices” on travel (compiled from the circuit
                       executives) to all judges, court unit executives, and chambers administrative
                       staff as a reminder of, and tangible advice for, cost containment on travel. The
                       memorandum and list were sent in August 2013. The Committee also reported
                       on its continuing congressional outreach efforts. Committee members met with
                       members of the Senate Judiciary Committee and their staffs, and the ranking


                                                              23

Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 17, 2013


                      member of the House Judiciary Committee visited the Committee’s June 2013
                      meeting and spoke with the Committee about the state of relations between the
                      branches.


             COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that it has
                      under advisement two petitions for review under the Judicial Conduct and
                      Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-364. In addition, the Committee and its staff
                      continue to address courts’ inquiries regarding the judicial misconduct and
                      disability complaint process.


             COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                      TEMPORARY JUDGESHIPS

                              Noting comprehensive judgeship legislation is unlikely to be enacted in
                      the current economic climate, the Executive Committee asked the Judicial
                      Resources Committee to consider prioritizing requests for additional Article III
                      judgeships based on need. The Committee considered whether further
                      prioritization was needed beyond the authorization given to the Director of the
                      Administrative Office, in March 2011, to seek separate judgeship legislation
                      for courts with weighted caseloads exceeding 700 per judgeship, averaged over
                      a three-year period (JCUS-MAR 11, p. 22). The Committee focused on the
                      portion of the March 2013 biennial judgeship recommendation to Congress
                      requesting that eight existing temporary judgeships be converted to permanent,
                      noting that these judgeships would lapse at various times in fiscal year 2014.
                      Analyzing the three-year average weighted filings for these courts, the
                      Committee determined that the loss of six of these temporary judgeships would
                      cause weighted filings to rise to a level at which the Conference defines a
                      judgeship vacancy as a judicial emergency. Based on this analysis, the
                      Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference specifically authorize
                      the Director of the Administrative Office, subject to the approval of the
                      Executive Committee, to pursue separate legislation for conversion to
                      permanent status of any or all of the current temporary judgeships in the
                      following six courts: Northern District of Alabama, District of Arizona,
                      Central District of California, Southern District of Florida, District of New

                                                            24

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 17, 2013


                       Mexico, and Eastern District of Texas. The Conference adopted the
                       Committee’s recommendation.


                       STAFFING FORMULAS

                               District Clerks’ Offices. On recommendation of the Committee, the
                       Judicial Conference adopted a new staffing formula for district clerks’ offices
                       to be applied starting in fiscal year 2014, which provides 6,410.93 full-time
                       equivalent staff, based on statistical year 2012 workload, with a one-to-one
                       ratio of courtroom deputies to judges in the district courts. The Committee also
                       recommended, and the Conference approved, the use of five-year averages
                       rather than single-year values when computing case counts for staffing formula
                       calculations for transferred multidistrict litigation cases, patent cases in district
                       courts, and Chapter 11 mega-cases in bankruptcy courts. The new staffing
                       formula for district clerks’ offices reduces full staffing requirements by 11.83
                       percent based on statistical year 2012 workload, but results in 768.57 more full-
                       time equivalent staff than were onboard as of the end of fiscal year 2013.

                                Shared Administrative Services Component. In August 2011, the
                       Executive Committee endorsed a number of cost-containment initiatives, one
                       of which was to include a shared administrative services component in new
                       staffing formulas being developed for the bankruptcy and district courts. In
                       September 2012, the Judicial Conference adopted a new staffing formula for
                       bankruptcy clerks’ offices that included a shared administrative services
                       component (JCUS-SEP 12, pp. 22-23). At this session, on recommendation of
                       the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved a similar shared
                       administrative services component for use with the new staffing formula for
                       district clerks’ offices and for use with the current staffing formula for
                       probation and pretrial services offices. The new shared administrative services
                       component presumes the following:

                       a.       Shared administrative services reductions for fiscal year 2014,
                                excluding budget and finance functions, of 52.1 aggregate full-time
                                equivalent staff from the new staffing formula for district clerks’
                                offices, and 19.6 aggregate full-time equivalent staff from the current
                                staffing formula for probation and pretrial services offices;

                       b.       Additional shared administrative services reductions for fiscal year
                                2015, excluding budget and finance functions, of 10.7 full-time
                                equivalent staff (62.8 aggregate full-time equivalent staff for 2014 and


                                                                25

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                              September 17, 2013


                               2015) from the new staffing formula for district clerks’ offices, and 4.0
                               full-time equivalent staff (23.6 aggregate full-time equivalent staff for
                               2014 and 2015) from the current staffing formula for probation and
                               pretrial services offices; and

                      c.	      Additional shared administrative services reductions for fiscal year
                               2016, excluding budget and finance functions, of 45.9 full-time
                               equivalent staff (108.7 aggregate full-time equivalent staff for 2014,
                               2015, and 2016) from the new staffing formula for district clerks’
                               offices, and 17.2 full-time equivalent staff (40.8 aggregate full-time
                               equivalent staff for 2014, 2015, and 2016) from the current staffing
                               formula for probation and pretrial services offices.


                      VOLUNTARY SEPARATION INCENTIVE PAYMENTS

                              The judiciary’s Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment policy
                      provides that a lump-sum payment of up to $25,000 (also know as a “buyout”),
                      can be offered as an incentive for employees to separate voluntarily when an
                      organization is restructuring, reorganizing, or downsizing the workforce. Unit
                      executives and chief deputies/deputy chiefs in the Judiciary Salary Plan have
                      not historically been eligible for such payments, in part because their positions
                      have been considered critical. However, the judiciary’s current fiscal situation
                      has increased the likelihood that offices with unit heads will consolidate,
                      resulting in those positions and related deputy positions becoming surplus. The
                      Committee therefore recommended that the Judicial Conference approve a
                      change to the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment policy to include unit
                      executive and chief deputy/deputy chief Judiciary Salary Plan positions as
                      eligible for a buyout payment using centralized funding when such positions
                      are targeted for elimination as a result of plans to consolidate units. Funding
                      for buyouts for court-funded Judiciary Salary Plan positions would still be
                      provided from decentralized funds. The Conference adopted the Committee’s
                      recommendation.


                      COURT INTERPRETER

                              The Committee on Judicial Resources recommended, and the Judicial
                      Conference approved, one full-time equivalent position for a Spanish staff
                      court interpreter for the Eastern District of Texas, beginning in fiscal year
                      2015, based on the Spanish language interpreting workload in that court.

                                                              26

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 17, 2013



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that it submitted to the
                       Committee on the Budget a FY 2015 budget request for programs under its
                       jurisdiction that was equivalent to a 5.2 percent increase over the FY 2014
                       baseline; subsequently, the Budget Committee limited the request to a 3.4
                       percent increase, which includes restoration of 175 full-time equivalent
                       positions lost since the end of FY 2012. The Committee also adopted a
                       schedule for work measurement studies for bankruptcy administrator, circuit
                       and appellate court, and probation and pretrial services offices, as well as for
                       federal defender organizations. The Judicial Resources Committee tabled
                       action until its December 2013 meeting on the Budget Committee’s request to
                       consider recommending modification of the funding policy for Judiciary Salary
                       Plan positions so that centrally managed funds would no longer be used to pay
                       the salaries of separate chief probation and chief pretrial services officers
                       within the same district.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL SECURITY
                       COURTHOUSE SECURITY COVERAGE

                                Due to the projected lack of funding in the Court Security account in
                       fiscal years 2014 and 2015, the Committee on Judicial Security recommended
                       the following measures to contain costs: reducing overnight and weekend
                       courthouse security coverage, eliminating 67 court security officer (CSO)
                       positions in overstaffed districts, reducing by 50 hours in 2014 and 25 hours in
                       2015 the annual work hours allocated to all CSO positions nationwide, and
                       reducing security systems and equipment funding by $11.4 million below the
                       congressional budget request for FY 2014, and $5.5 million below the budget
                       request for FY 2015. After discussion of the portion of the recommendation
                       regarding after-hours guarding, the Conference agreed to permit the Committee
                       to withdraw its recommendation to reduce overnight and weekend courthouse
                       security coverage. The Conference approved without discussion the
                       Committee’s recommendations to eliminate CSO positions in overstaffed
                       districts, reduce annual work hours allocated to CSO positions nationwide in
                       FY 2014 and FY 2015, and to reduce funding in FY 2014 and FY 2015 for
                       security systems and equipment.



                                                             27

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                September 17, 2013



                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it discussed whether
                      there should be a national policy on entry screening practices for court
                      personnel. After considering the results of a recent survey of the entry
                      screening practices at all primary courthouses, the Committee determined that
                      such a policy should be made at the local level by chief judges and security
                      committees, in consultation with district U.S. marshals. The Committee also
                      endorsed, in consultation with the Committee on Space and Facilities, five
                      locations to undergo capital security studies for potential participation in the
                      Capital Security Program in FY 2014 and/or FY 2015.


             COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
             OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                      CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                              After considering the report of the Committee on the Administration of
                      the Magistrate Judges System and the recommendations of the Administrative
                      Office, the district courts, and the judicial councils of the circuits, the Judicial
                      Conference agreed to—

                      a.       Redesignate the locations of the full-time magistrate judge position at
                               Charlottesville as Harrisonburg and the part-time magistrate judge
                               position at Harrisonburg as Charlottesville in the Western District of
                               Virginia upon the retirement of the incumbent magistrate judge at
                               Charlottesville;

                      b.       In the District of Alaska—

                               i.      Not allow the court to fill the vacant full-time magistrate judge
                                       position at Anchorage, and

                               ii.     Authorize at Anchorage a part-time magistrate judge position at
                                       Salary Level 2 ($67,210 per annum); and




                                                               28

Judicial Conference of the United States 	                                             September 17, 2013


                       c.	     In the District of New Mexico—

                               i.	      Not allow the court to fill the magistrate judge position vacancy
                                        at Albuquerque, and

                               ii.	     Redesignate the location of the part-time magistrate judge
                                        position at Gallup as Farmington.


                       APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT REGULATIONS

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       amended the Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States
                       Establishing Standards and Procedures for the Appointment and
                       Reappointment of United States Magistrate Judges to (a) specify in sections
                       420.60.20 and 420.60.30(c) the role of the chief judge when there is no
                       concurrence among voting judges on appointment and reappointment matters;
                       and (b) require courts under sections 420.30.10 and 420.50.10(a) to issue an
                       order establishing a merit selection panel and to submit a copy of the order to
                       the Administrative Office at the time the order is entered and before the panel
                       takes any action.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                       reported that, pursuant to Judicial Conference policy regarding the review of
                       magistrate judge position vacancies (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 26), for the period
                       between its December 2012 and June 2013 meetings, it approved, through its
                       chair, filling 16 full-time magistrate judge position vacancies and one part-time
                       magistrate judge position vacancy in 14 district courts. At its June 2013
                       meeting, the full Committee considered nine requests to fill magistrate judge
                       position vacancies and approved filling seven. The Committee agreed to
                       recommend to the Intercircuit Assignments Committee proposed revised
                       guidelines governing the intracircuit and intercircuit assignment of magistrate
                       judges (see supra, “Guidelines for the Intercircuit Assignment of Bankruptcy
                       and Magistrate Judges,” p. 22). The Committee also agreed to revise the
                       document entitled “Suggestions for Utilization of Magistrate Judges” regarding
                       the issue of automatic assignment of objections to reports and
                       recommendations to the magistrate judges who submitted them, a practice of
                       concern to the Committee.

                                                                29

Judicial Conference of the United States                                           September 17, 2013


             COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
                      FEDERAL RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference a proposed amendment to Appellate Rule 6 (Appeal in a
                      Bankruptcy Case From a Final Judgment, Order, or Decree of a District Court
                      or Bankruptcy Appellate Panel), together with a Committee Note explaining its
                      purpose and intent. The Conference approved the amendment and agreed to
                      transmit it to the Supreme Court for consideration with a recommendation that
                      it be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the
                      law.


                      FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1014
                      (Dismissal and Change of Venue), 7004 (Process; Service of Summons,
                      Complaint), 7008 (General Rules of Pleading), 7012 (Defenses and Objections
                      — When and How Presented — By Pleading or Motion — Motion for
                      Judgment on the Pleadings), 7016 (Pre-Trial Procedure; Formulating Issues),
                      7054 (Judgments; Costs), 8001–8028 (Bankruptcy Appeals), 9023 (New Trials;
                      Amendment of Judgments), 9024 (Relief from Judgment or Order), 9027
                      (Removal), and 9033 (Review of Proposed Findings of Fact and Conclusions
                      of Law in Non-Core Proceedings), together with Committee Notes explaining
                      their purpose and intent. The Conference approved the amendments and
                      agreed to transmit them to the Supreme Court for consideration with a
                      recommendation that they be adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress
                      in accordance with the law.1


             1
              Following the Conference session, the Committee on Rules of Practice and
             Procedure requested that the Conference withdraw, before distribution to the justices,
             the proposals to amend Bankruptcy Rules 7008, 7012, 7016, 9027, and 9033 that
             implicated an issue to be considered by the Supreme Court in Executive Benefits
             Insurance Agency v. Arkison, 702 F.3d 553 (9th Cir. 2012), cert. granted, 133 S. Ct.
             2880 (mem.) (2013) (No. 12-1200). The Executive Committee agreed to act on
             behalf of the Conference to withdraw the proposed amendments and recommit them
             to the Rules Committee for further consideration in light of the Court’s decision in
             that case.

                                                           30

Judicial Conference of the United States                                          September 17, 2013

                               The Committee also submitted to the Conference proposed revisions to
                       Official Bankruptcy Forms 3A (Application for Individuals to Pay the Filing
                       Fee in Installments), 3B (Application to Have the Chapter 7 Filing Fee
                       Waived), 6I (Schedule I: Your Income), 6J (Schedule J: Your Expenses),
                       6-Summary (Summary of Schedules), 23 (Debtor’s Certification of Completion
                       of Postpetition Instructional Course Concerning Personal Financial
                       Management), and 27 (Reaffirmation Agreement Cover Sheet). The
                       Conference approved the revised forms to take effect on December 1, 2013.


                       FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Criminal Rules 5 (Initial
                       Appearance), 6 (The Grand Jury), 12 (Pleadings and Pretrial Motions),
                       34 (Arresting Judgment), and 58 (Petty Offenses and Other Misdemeanors),
                       together with Committee Notes explaining their purpose and intent. The
                       Conference approved the amendments and agreed to transmit them to the
                       Supreme Court for consideration with a recommendation that they be adopted
                       by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                       FEDERAL RULES OF EVIDENCE

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                       Judicial Conference proposed amendments to Evidence Rules 801 (Definitions
                       That Apply to This Article; Exclusions from Hearsay) and 803 (Exceptions to
                       the Rule Against Hearsay — Regardless of Whether the Declarant is Available
                       as a Witness), together with Committee Notes explaining their purpose and
                       intent. The Conference approved the amendments and agreed to transmit them
                       to the Supreme Court for consideration with a recommendation that they be
                       adopted by the Court and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                       approved for publication and public comment proposed amendments to
                       Bankruptcy Rules 2002, 3002, 3007, 3012, 3015, 4003, 5005, 5009, 7001,
                       9006, 9009, and Official Forms 17A, 17B, 17C, 22A-1, 22A-1Supp, 22A-2,
                       22B, 22C-1, 22C-2, 101, 101A, 101B, 104, 105, 106Sum, 106A/B, 106C,


                                                            31

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              September 17, 2013

                      106D, 106E/F, 106G, 106H, 106Dec, 107, 112, 113, 119, 121, 318, 423, and
                      427, and Civil Rules 1, 4, 16, 26, 30, 31, 33, 34, 36, 37, 84, and Appendix of
                      Forms. The proposed rules amendments – along with the proposed
                      amendments to Civil Rules 6 and 55 previously approved for publication –
                      were published for public comment in August 2013. The comment period
                      closes February 15, 2014.


             COMMITTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
                      JUDICIARY’S SPACE FOOTPRINT

                              Noting that space reductions of the magnitude needed to respond to
                      reduced congressional appropriations require a national space reduction policy,
                      and in anticipation of possible congressional directives, the Committee
                      recommended that the Judicial Conference take the following actions:

                      a.       Endorse a "No Net New" policy under which any increase in square
                               footage within a circuit would need to be offset by an equivalent
                               reduction in square footage within the same fiscal year, subject to the
                               following exclusions: new courthouse construction, renovation, or
                               alterations projects approved by Congress. The baseline for this policy
                               is space holdings within each circuit as of the beginning of FY 2013.

                      b.       Endorse a three percent space reduction target by the close of FY 2018,
                               prorated among the circuits based on the square footage occupied by
                               each, taking into consideration the amount of square footage allotted to
                               the circuit under the current version of the U.S. Courts Design Guide,
                               contingent upon the judiciary having access to funding to analyze,
                               design, and implement space reductions. This target is subject to the
                               following exclusions: new courthouse construction, renovation, or
                               alterations projects approved by Congress. The baseline for this policy
                               is space holdings within each circuit as of the beginning of FY 2013.

                      c.       Require each circuit judicial council to formulate a space and rent
                               management plan, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 332(e)(5), articulating how
                               any new space reduction policy will be implemented.

                      The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.




                                                              32

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               September 17, 2013



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that it approved a
                       FY 2015 budget request for the space and facilities program, which included a
                       request for funding to implement the Committee’s space reduction program.
                       The Committee was updated on the space allotment program adopted by the
                       Conference at its September 2012 session (JCUS-SEP 12, p. 32), which
                       provides directly to a court unit that releases space a funding allotment equal to
                       one year of rent for that space. Many courts have received allotments and the
                       program is successfully focusing courts on space reduction. The Committee
                       also discussed the status of the Capital Security Program, noting that a project
                       in St. Thomas, Virgin Islands was selected to participate in the program for
                       FY 2013, and several locations were selected for capital security studies for
                       potential participation in the program in future years, contingent on funding.


              FUNDING
                               All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                       funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                       the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                       establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                     Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                     Presiding




                                                              33

