REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


March 12, 2013


                       The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
               D.C., on March 12, 2013, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
               United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
               the following members of the Conference were present:

                      First Circuit:

                                  Chief Judge Sandra L. Lynch
                                  Judge Paul J. Barbadoro,
                                         District of New Hampshire

                      Second Circuit:

                                  Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs
                                  Chief Judge Carol Bagley Amon,
                                         Eastern District of New York

                      Third Circuit:

                                  Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                  Judge Joel A. Pisano,1
                                         District of New Jersey

                      Fourth Circuit:

                                  Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.

                                  Chief Judge Deborah K. Chasanow,

                                         District of Maryland





        1
        Designated by the Chief Justice as a substitute for Chief Judge Gary L. Lancaster,
        Western District of Pennsylvania, who was unable to attend.
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           March 12, 2013

                               Fifth Circuit:

                                          Chief Judge Carl E. Stewart
                                          Chief Judge Sarah S. Vance,
                                                 Eastern District of Louisiana
                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alice M. Batchelder
                                           Chief Judge Thomas A. Varlan,
                                                  Eastern District of Tennessee

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook
                                           Judge Ruben Castillo,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Rodney W. Sippel,
                                                  Eastern District of Missouri

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Alex Kozinski
                                           Judge Robert S. Lasnik,
                                                  Western District of Washington

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe
                                           Judge Dee V. Benson,
                                                  District of Utah

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Joel F. Dubina
                                           Judge W. Louis Sands,
                                                  Middle District of Georgia



                                                               2

Judicial Conference of the United States                                            March 12, 2013

                                District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Merrick B. Garland
                                           Chief Judge Royce C. Lamberth,
                                                  District of Columbia

                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Randall R. Rader

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Donald C. Pogue

                               The following Judicial Conference committee chairs attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Julia Smith Gibbons, Robert A.
                       Katzmann, Diarmuid F. O’Scannlain, Anthony J. Scirica, Jeffrey S. Sutton,
                       and Timothy M. Tymkovich; District Judges Nancy F. Atlas, Robert Holmes
                       Bell, Catherine C. Blake, David G. Campbell, Rosemary M. Collyer, Joy
                       Flowers Conti, Sidney A. Fitzwater, Joseph H. McKinley, Jr., J. Frederick
                       Motz, Lawrence L. Piersol, Joel A. Pisano, Michael A. Ponsor, Reena Raggi,
                       Julie A. Robinson, and Richard W. Story; and Bankruptcy Judge Eugene R.
                       Wedoff. Attending as the bankruptcy judge and magistrate judge observers,
                       respectively, were Bankruptcy Judge Michael E. Romero and Magistrate
                       Judge Thomas C. Mummert III. Samuel W. Phillips of the Fourth Circuit
                       represented the circuit executives.

                               Judge Thomas F. Hogan, Director of the Administrative Office of the
                       United States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill C.
                       Sayenga, Deputy Director; Robert K. Loesche, General Counsel; Laura C.
                       Minor, Assistant Director, and Jeffrey A. Hennemuth, Deputy Assistant
                       Director, Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat; Cordia A. Strom,
                       Assistant Director, Legislative Affairs; and David A. Sellers, Assistant
                       Director, Public Affairs. District Judge Jeremy D. Fogel, Director, Federal
                       Judicial Center, and District Judge Patti B. Saris, Chairman, and Judith W.
                       Sheon, Staff Director, United States Sentencing Commission, were in
                       attendance at the session of the Conference, as was Jeffrey P. Minear,
                       Counselor to the Chief Justice. The 2012-2013 Supreme Court Fellows also
                       observed the Conference proceedings.

                              Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., addressed the Conference on
                       matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department of Justice.

                                                                3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 12, 2013

                      Senators Patrick J. Leahy and Christopher Coons and Representative Bob
                      Goodlatte spoke on matters pending in Congress of interest to the Conference.


             REPORTS
                              Judge Hogan reported to the Conference on the judicial business of the
                      courts and on matters relating to the Administrative Office (AO). Judge Fogel
                      spoke to the Conference about Federal Judicial Center (FJC) programs, and
                      Judge Saris reported on United States Sentencing Commission activities.
                      Judge Gibbons, Chair of the Committee on the Budget, presented a report on
                      budgetary matters.


             ELECTION

                             The Judicial Conference elected to membership on the Board of the
                      Federal Judicial Center for a term of four years Magistrate Judge Jonathan W.
                      Feldman, United States District Court for the Western District of New York,
                      and Chief Bankruptcy Judge Coleman Ray Mullins, United States Bankruptcy
                      Court for the Northern District of Georgia, to succeed Magistrate Judge John
                      Michael Facciola, United States District Court for the District of Columbia,
                      and Chief Bankruptcy Judge James B. Haines, Jr., United States Bankruptcy
                      Court for the District of Maine.


             EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
                      BUDGETARY MATTERS

                              The Executive Committee continued to discuss how to address
                      anticipated budgetary shortfalls resulting from implementation of the Budget
                      Control Act of 2011, Pub. L. No. 112-25. That Act originally required budget
                      sequestration—i.e., automatic, across-the-board cuts to federal government
                      (including judiciary) spending—unless Congress enacted legislation to
                      achieve deficit reduction before the sequester was scheduled to take effect on
                      January 2, 2013. In December 2012, after obtaining the views of the
                      Conference’s Budget Committee and program committees, and the
                      Administrative Office’s Budget and Finance and Human Resources Advisory
                      Councils, the Executive Committee approved a package of emergency
                      measures to be taken if necessary. Subsequently, Congress enacted the

                                                            4

Judicial Conference of the United States 	                                            March 12, 2013

                        American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, Pub. L. No. 112-240, which deferred
                        from January 2 until March 1, 2013, the effective date for sequestration, and
                        included revenue and spending changes that effectively reduced the volume of
                        spending cuts that the sequesters would require. At its February 2013
                        meeting, the Executive Committee modified the package of emergency
                        measures accordingly. The revised measures were implemented beginning
                        March 1, 2013. The Committee continues to monitor and promote efforts by
                        Conference committees to pursue cost-containment initiatives so that the
                        judiciary can be better positioned to weather an uncertain, longer-term,
                        budgetary future.


                        MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                               The Executive Committee —

                        •	     Reviewed the determinations of the other Conference committees as to
                               whether the judiciary should pursue in the 113th Congress, or defer
                               pursuit of, Conference-approved legislative proposals within those
                               committees’ jurisdictions.

                        •	     Adjusted the jurisdictions of the Committees on the Administration of
                               the Bankruptcy System, Defender Services, Intercircuit Assignments,
                               Judicial Resources, and the Administration of the Magistrate Judges
                               System to achieve better coordination and oversight of judiciary
                               resources.

                        •	     At the request of the Committee on Judicial Security, agreed to seek
                               the Chief Justice’s approval for expanding that committee’s
                               membership to include an Article III judge representative from each
                               regional circuit.2

                        •	     Asked the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments to explore
                               additional ways to anticipate and meet the courts’ judicial resource
                               needs through visiting judge assignments.

                        •	     Asked the Committee on Judicial Resources and the Committee on
                               Codes of Conduct to consider and, after consultation with the
                               Committee on the Judicial Branch, take appropriate action with respect


              2
                  The Chief Justice subsequently approved the request.

                                                              5

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                  March 12, 2013

                               to the use of volunteer law clerks, extern, and interns in the federal
                               courts.

                      •	       Asked the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                               to explore the possibility of achieving administrative efficiencies and
                               cost-savings through changes in the number and alignment of judicial
                               districts within states.

                      •	       Received a report from the Director of the Administrative Office on
                               the agency’s continued progress in pursuing internal cost-containment
                               initiatives that have positioned the AO to deal with the impact on the
                               agency of budget sequestration.

                      •	       Discussed pursuit of legislative changes to eliminate needless
                               operating expenses and remove unnecessary barriers to
                               cost-containment efforts.

                      •	       Approved on behalf of the Judicial Conference a resolution
                               recognizing Judge David Bryan Sentelle, former Chair of the
                               Executive Committee, for his service as a member of the Judicial
                               Conference and the Executive Committee from 2008 to 2013.

                      •	       Determined that the four strategies and one goal from the Strategic
                               Plan for the Federal Judiciary that were identified as judiciary-wide
                               priorities for the last two years should continue to receive priority
                               attention during the next two years.


                      COMMITTEE ON AUDITS AND
                      ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE ACCOUNTABILITY
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                      reported that it endorsed two initiatives to ensure that audit activities and
                      internal control requirements address the judiciary’s greatest risks. The
                      Administrative Office will work with court and defender organization
                      stakeholders to develop a risk-based approach to updating the judiciary’s
                      cyclical financial audits of courts and federal public defender organizations.
                      The Administrative Office will also work with the stakeholders to
                      (a) eliminate redundant or unnecessary internal control requirements; and


                                                               6

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 12, 2013

                       (b) ensure that the judiciary’s internal control policies are designed to prevent,
                       detect, correct, and mitigate risks of material financial misstatement and
                       significant non-compliance with financial-related law, regulation, or policy.


              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
              OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                       BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                               The Judicial Conference conducts biennial surveys to evaluate requests
                       for additional bankruptcy judgeships and transmits its recommendations to
                       Congress, which establishes the number of bankruptcy judgeships in each
                       judicial district (28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(2)). Based on the 2012 biennial survey of
                       judgeship needs, the Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy
                       System recommended that the Judicial Conference ask Congress to
                       (a) authorize 31 additional judgeships (29 permanent and 2 temporary) and
                       (b) convert 20 existing temporary judgeships to permanent status, with
                       language in the transmittal letter that acknowledges the dire fiscal realities the
                       country and the federal government face and the possibility that all the
                       judgeships will not be created and that some prioritization may have to occur.
                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation, agreeing to
                       transmit the following request to Congress with the qualifying language
                       referenced above (“P” denotes permanent; “T” denotes temporary; “T/P”
                       denotes conversion of temporary to permanent):

                                New Hampshire
                1T
                                New York (Southern)
          2P
                                Delaware
                     1 T, 5 T/P
                                New Jersey
                   1 T/P
                                Maryland
                     2 T/P
                                North Carolina (Eastern)
     1 T/P
                                North Carolina (Western)
     1P
                                Virginia (Eastern)
           1 T/P
                                Mississippi (Northern)
       1P
                                Michigan (Eastern)
           3 P, 1 T/P
                                Tennessee (Western)
          1 T/P
                                Illinois (Northern) 
         1P
                                Arizona
                      3P
                                California (Central)
         4 P, 3 T/P
                                California (Eastern)
         2 P, 1 T/P


                                                               7

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                March 12, 2013

                               Nevada                       2 P, 1 T/P

                               Colorado                     1 P

                               Utah                         1 P

                               Florida (Middle)             4 P

                               Florida (Northern)           1 P

                               Florida (Southern)           1 P, 2 T/P

                               Georgia (Northern)           2 P

                               Georgia (Southern)           1 T/P



                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                      reported that it approved development of a new cost-containment initiative to
                      assist bankruptcy courts in the effective use of existing judicial resources and
                      technology and that it is reviewing the acceleration of other cost-containment
                      initiatives. The Committee also discussed and raised no objection to changes
                      to its jurisdictional statement that had been tentatively approved by the
                      Executive Committee. The Committee continues to provide oversight of the
                      recall program for retired bankruptcy judges and has endorsed two additional
                      miscellaneous bankruptcy fee proposals for consideration by the Court
                      Administration and Case Management Committee.


             COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
                      CAPITAL INVESTMENT FUND

                              At the request of the Judicial Conference, Congress approved a Capital
                      Investment Fund pilot program for a four-year period beginning in fiscal year
                      2009. Under the program, court units could return up to $50,000 for deposit
                      into the Capital Investment Fund, to be used in future years for the following
                      purposes: tenant alterations, cyclical facilities maintenance, capital goods,
                      courtroom technology, and multi-year contracts for services that enhance
                      major projects and acquisitions. On completion of the pilot program and an
                      examination of its efficacy, the Budget Committee recommended that the
                      Conference seek approval from Congress to make the fund a permanent tool
                      available to the courts, with the following two changes to the program:

                      a.	      Include a mechanism for adjusting for inflation the threshold amount
                               that can be maintained in the fund; and


                                                              8

Judicial Conference of the United States 	                                               March 12, 2013

                       b. 	    Create a new category of permitted use, entitled “capital assets,” that
                               would subsume the capital goods and courtroom technology categories
                               already permitted and add information technology infrastructure as an
                               appropriate use.

                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Budget reported that it focused much of its
                       discussions on the bleak budget outlook facing the judiciary in 2013 and the
                       next several years and on the many cost-containment initiatives that it believes
                       should be accelerated and implemented as quickly as possible. The
                       Committee also discussed the extensive membership changes in the 113th
                       Congress on the House and Senate Appropriations Committees and their
                       Financial Services and General Government appropriations subcommittees.
                       These changes will require the Committee to enhance its congressional
                       outreach efforts, with a particular focus on educating members about the
                       judiciary’s cost-containment efforts, its stewardship of taxpayer funds, and the
                       importance of maintaining an adequately funded federal judiciary.


              COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
                       CODE OF CONDUCT FOR JUDICIAL EMPLOYEES

                               Noting that the Code of Conduct for Judicial Employees had not been
                       significantly revised since it was adopted in 1995, the Committee on Codes of
                       Conduct undertook a comprehensive review and evaluated the need for
                       changes to select provisions. Based on its review, and after considering
                       comments from judges and judiciary personnel, the Committee recommended
                       that the Judicial Conference adopt a revised Code and delegate to the
                       Committee authority to make non-substantive or technical amendments to the
                       Code. The revisions clarify issues related to (a) applicability of the Code to
                       interns, externs, and other volunteers; (b) conflicts of interest of staff attorneys
                       and law clerks with regard to previous practice of law;
                       (c) acceptance of governmental appointments by judicial employees; and
                       (d) political activity by certain lawyers employed by the courts. The
                       Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.



                                                                9

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 12, 2013



                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                      to the Judicial Conference in September 2012, the Committee received 39
                      new written inquiries and issued 38 written advisory responses. During this
                      period, the average response time was 15 days. In addition, the
                      Committee chair responded to 50 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                      members responded to 190 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                      responded to 542 informal inquiries.


             COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
             AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                      ELECTRONIC PUBLIC ACCESS FEE SCHEDULE

                              Noting that the Electronic Public Access Fee Schedule has been
                      amended a number of times, and that as a result, the schedule and
                      accompanying note are lengthy and difficult for courts to administer, the
                      Committee on Court Administration and Case Management proposed
                      revisions to those documents to simplify and clarify them. On
                      recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference amended the
                      schedule and accompanying note to (a) make format and style changes;
                      (b) clarify the principles underlying the exemption policy; (c) clarify that
                      attorneys of record and parties in a case (including pro se litigants) may
                      receive one free electronic copy of all documents filed electronically via the
                      notice of electronic filing (or notice of docket activity); and (d) clarify that
                      non-case specific reports are not subject to the 30-page fee cap.


                      STATISTICAL REPORTS

                              The judiciary issues two statistical bankruptcy reports that were
                      previously available only on PACER for a fee: the monthly Table F-2, which
                      summarizes the total bankruptcy filings by chapter, district, and circuit; and
                      the quarterly Table F-5a, which summarizes the number of bankruptcy
                      petitions filed by chapter, for a twelve-month period. On recommendation of
                      the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to make these statistical
                      reports available to the public for free on the judiciary’s uscourts.gov website.


                                                              10

Judicial Conference of the United States 	                                             March 12, 2013



                       MISCELLANEOUS FEES

                              Pursuant to its statutory authority to prescribe miscellaneous fees for
                       the courts,3 the Conference periodically reviews the fees to determine if
                       changes are appropriate. At this session, the Committee on Court
                       Administration and Case Management recommended that the Conference—

                       a.	     Amend Item 14 on the District Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule to
                               clarify that the $50 administrative fee does not apply to an application
                               for a writ of habeas corpus, noting that Congress set the filing fee for
                               such actions at $5, and to set a significantly higher administrative fee
                               would counter Congress’s intent in establishing a lower fee for such
                               filers.

                       b.	     Add a $50 administrative fee (Item 12) to the Court of Federal Claims
                               Miscellaneous Fee Schedule for filing a civil action, suit, or
                               proceeding in the Court of Federal Claims, similar to the
                               administrative fee adopted in both district and bankruptcy courts; and

                       c.	     Amend Item 11 on the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule
                               to raise the fee for filing a motion to reopen a Chapter 9 or Chapter 15
                               case from $1,000 to $1,167, as these fees were intended to track the
                               chapter 11 filing fee, which was raised from $1,000 to $1,167 by the
                               Temporary Bankruptcy Judgeships Extension Act of 2012, Public Law
                               No. 112-121.

                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendations.


                       FEE LEGISLATION

                              The proposed Bankruptcy Administration Improvement Act of 2012
                       (H.R. 6349, 112th Congress) would have amended 11 U.S.C. § 330(b)(2) to
                       increase from $15 to $75 the component of the Chapter 7 trustee fee assessed
                       through the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule. The Committee
                       recommended that the Conference oppose this bill (or similar proposed


              3
               See 28 U.S.C. §§ 1913 (courts of appeals); 1914 (district courts); 1926 (Court of
              Federal Claims); 1930 (bankruptcy courts); 1932 (Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
              Litigation).

                                                              11

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 12, 2013

                      legislation) to the extent that it would fund an increase in private bankruptcy
                      trustee compensation through an increase in fees under the miscellaneous fee
                      authority of the Judicial Conference. The Conference adopted the
                      Committee’s recommendation.


                      RECORDS DISPOSITION SCHEDULES

                              Bankruptcy Case Files. The records of certain cases filed under the
                      Bankruptcy Acts of 1898 and 1978 were designated as temporary in 1980 (and
                      thus eligible for destruction after a set period of time), and then re-designated
                      as permanent in 1983. Between 1980 and 1983, those case records were
                      transferred to Federal Records Centers (FRCs) along with other temporary
                      cases. Noting that these cases are few in number, and that retrieving their
                      records from the FRCs for permanent storage would be prohibitively
                      expensive, the Committee recommended that the Conference amend the
                      bankruptcy court records disposition schedule, Item A(14)c, to provide that a
                      2.5 percent sample of the records of cases under the Bankruptcy Acts of 1898
                      and 1978 that were transferred to the FRCs prior to 1984 be designated as
                      permanent and the remainder of such case records be designated as temporary,
                      and authorize transmittal of the revised schedule to the National Archives and
                      Records Administration (NARA) for concurrence. The Conference adopted
                      the Committee’s recommendation.

                              Complaints under the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act. Noting that
                      records related to complaints filed under the Judicial Conduct and Disability
                      Act of 1980 had not previously been scheduled, the Committee recommended
                      that the Judicial Conference amend Records Disposition Schedule 1 (for the
                      courts of appeals) and Records Disposition Schedule 2 (for all other courts)
                      (Guide to Judiciary Policy (Guide), Vol. 10, App. 6A and 6B, respectively) to
                      add a new item to address such records. Orders and memoranda of decision,
                      along with accompanying reports would be classified as permanent, and other
                      documents relating to those proceedings would be classified as temporary and
                      destroyed after five years. The Judicial Conference adopted the Committee’s
                      recommendation and authorized the revised schedules to be transmitted to
                      NARA for concurrence.

                              Court Reporter Notes. The Committee recommended that the Judicial
                      Conference amend Item A(18)a on the district court records disposition
                      schedule, which pertains to original court reporters’ notes of proceedings, so
                      that disposition of those records would be linked to the schedule for the case
                      type to which the records pertain. The Conference agreed to (a) add a new

                                                             12

Judicial Conference of the United States                                              March 12, 2013

                       item that provides for the permanent retention of original court reporter notes
                       or electronic sound recordings filed with the court in lieu of transcript in
                       criminal death penalty cases or civil capital habeas corpus trial cases, and
                       (b) provide that electronic sound recordings of arraignments, pleas, and
                       sentencings that are filed with the court in lieu of transcript in non-death
                       penalty criminal cases be disposed of 20 years after the close of the case. All
                       other original notes and recordings will continue to be disposed of after 10
                       years. The Conference authorized the revised schedule to be transmitted to
                       NARA for concurrence.

                              Human Resources Records. On recommendation of the Committee,
                       the Conference agreed to amend Records Disposition Schedules 1 and 2
                       (Guide, Vol. 10, App. 6A and 6B, respectively) to update and expand
                       coverage for human resources records to reflect the judiciary’s current
                       personnel practices. The Conference authorized the revised schedules to be
                       transmitted to NARA for concurrence.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                       reported that it considered its ongoing cost-containment initiatives, including
                       reducing costs in the judiciary’s library and records programs, as well as
                       promoting shared administrative services in the courts. The Committee also
                       provided the Executive Committee with several suggestions on the judiciary’s
                       proposed emergency plan to operate with reduced funding due to
                       sequestration. The Committee discussed proposals related to the Conference’s
                       privacy policy, the Next Generation of CM/ECF project, and the ongoing
                       patent pilot program. The Committee also considered methods to promote
                       more comprehensive data collection under the cameras-in-the-courtroom pilot
                       project.


              COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it discussed the
                       feedback it received on the National Sentencing Policy Institute that was held
                       in Memphis, Tennessee, on October 1-3, 2012, and was jointly sponsored by
                       the Committee, the Federal Judicial Center (FJC), the Bureau of Prisons, and


                                                              13

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 12, 2013

                      the U.S. Sentencing Commission. Institute attendees—consisting of federal
                      judges, probation officers, U.S. attorneys, federal defenders, and
                      representatives from the sponsoring agencies—discussed topics such as
                      disparity in sentencing, the application of evidence-based practices to
                      sentencing and community corrections, and the sentencing of offenders
                      convicted of child pornography offenses. The Committee also discussed its
                      concerns that, during a time in which high-risk/high-need caseloads continue
                      to rise, ongoing funding cuts to the probation and pretrial services program
                      will jeopardize public safety.


             COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
                      DEFENDANTS’ TRANSPORTATION

                      AND SUBSISTENCE EXPENSES


                              Section 4285 of title 18, United States Code, authorizes courts to order
                      the United States Marshals Service (USMS) to provide a released defendant,
                      pending further court appearances, with non-custodial transportation and
                      subsistence on the way to (but not on the return from) court proceedings where
                      the individual’s appearance is required, when the interest of justice would be
                      served and the client is financially unable to pay the transportation costs. In
                      March 1993, the Judicial Conference agreed to seek legislation authorizing the
                      courts to order the USMS to provide transportation and subsistence to
                      defendants returning home from court proceedings or traveling to consult with
                      counsel, and to furnish subsistence while attending all court proceedings
                      (JCUS-MAR 93, p, 28). At this session, the Committee noted that pursuit of
                      the portion of the March 1993 position regarding transportation and
                      subsistence for defendants to consult with counsel has been deferred in
                      previous years, and that enactment would result in substantial cost to the
                      USMS and may hinder the possibility of the remainder of the proposal
                      passing. Therefore, on the Committee’s recommendation, the Conference
                      agreed to rescind its position to seek an amendment to 18 U.S.C. § 4285 to
                      provide authority for the courts to order the USMS to provide transportation
                      and subsistence to non-custodial defendants traveling to consult with counsel.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                             The Committee on Defender Services reported that in response to a
                      request from the Executive Committee, the Defender Services Committee


                                                            14

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 12, 2013

                       discussed tentative changes to its jurisdictional statement and related changes
                       to the Judicial Resources Committee’s jurisdictional statement. It was also
                       updated on the current status of the Electronic CJA Voucher Submission and
                       Processing Project, which is designed to transform the current paper-based
                       Criminal Justice Act voucher process into an automated system that will allow
                       for electronic preparation, submission, and processing of vouchers. In
                       addition, the Committee reviewed several cost-containment initiatives,
                       including an interim status report on an analysis being conducted to identify
                       the costs and potential savings from integrating information technology
                       services for the courts and federal defender organizations.


              COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it
                       discussed several legislative proposals under consideration in the 112th
                       Congress (which had just concluded) that could have affected the work of the
                       federal courts, including proposed legislation that would have permitted state
                       and local governments to periodically seek the vacating or modification of
                       federal consent decrees, and proposed legislation that would have made
                       significant changes to the Administrative Procedure Act and modified the
                       rules governing judicial review of administrative actions. The Committee also
                       reviewed legislation, which was later enacted and signed by the President, that
                       amended 28 U.S.C. § 1442 to expand the circumstances under which state
                       prosecutions of federal law enforcement officers could be removed to federal
                       court. Members were also briefed on initiatives to establish expedited
                       procedures for consideration of certain patent and copyright infringement
                       cases involving damages below a specified amount.


              COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that it affirmed its
                       January 2012 determination that, because the holdings within a managed asset
                       account are owned by the individual investor, sections 102(a)(3) and 102(a)(5)
                       of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. app. §§ 102(a)(3) and
                       102(a)(5)) require that the assets and transactions be detailed in the filer’s

                                                             15

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 12, 2013

                      financial disclosure report. The same reporting requirements also are
                      applicable to trusts. The Committee also reported that as of January 1, 2013,
                      it had received 4,490 financial disclosure reports and certifications for
                      calendar year 2011, including 1,341 reports and certifications from Supreme
                      Court justices, Article III judges, and judicial officers of special courts; 389
                      reports from bankruptcy judges; 608 reports from magistrate judges; and 1,905
                      reports from judiciary employees.


              COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Information Technology reported that it considered
                      the impact on the judiciary’s information technology (IT) program of a
                      potential funding reduction of $54.4 million should budget sequestration
                      occur. It determined that, if required, a reduction of this magnitude would
                      result in suspending development of most national systems, as well as
                      associated testing, training, and related services; eliminating new funding for
                      research and development efforts; and making targeted reductions to ongoing
                      operations. The Committee endorsed a national IT security policy on
                      password management, which calls for courts and national application
                      program offices to establish password management practices and standards,
                      and for national application program offices to adopt the same password
                      management practices and standards to the greatest extent possible.


            COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 105
                      intercircuit assignments were undertaken by 76 Article III judges from July 1,
                      2012, to December 31, 2012. During this time, the Committee continued to
                      disseminate information about intercircuit assignments and aid courts
                      requesting assistance by identifying and obtaining judges willing to take
                      assignments.




                                                            16

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 12, 2013

              COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported on its
                       involvement in rule of law and judicial reform activities throughout the world,
                       highlighting activities in East Asia and the Pacific, Europe and Eurasia, Latin
                       America and the Caribbean, and the Middle East. Briefing reports about
                       international rule of law activities were provided to the Committee by the
                       Department of State, the Department of Justice, the United States Agency for
                       International Development, the United States Patent and Trademark Office,
                       the United States Institute of Peace, the Open World Program at the Library of
                       Congress, the William H. Rehnquist Center on the Constitutional Structures of
                       Government, the Federal Judicial Center, and the Federal Court Clerks
                       Association. The Committee also reported on foreign delegations of jurists
                       and judicial personnel that received briefings at the Administrative Office.


              COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that its initiative to
                       develop internet website “toolboxes” for courts has been expanded to include
                       development and hosting services for courts. The Committee also met with
                       Lamar S. Smith (R-TX), chair, and John Conyers (D-MI), ranking member, of
                       the House Judiciary Committee to discuss interbranch relations. In
                       conjunction with the First Amendment Center, a non-profit media
                       organization that works to preserve and protect First Amendment freedoms,
                       the Committee conducted a program for judges and journalists in Washington,
                       D.C., on topics including the impact of social media on jurors and the effect of
                       changing technology on coverage of courts in the 21st century.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that it
                       discussed matters on which its guidance had been sought regarding complaints
                       under the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-364. The

                                                             17

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 12, 2013

                      Committee also reviewed complaint-related orders issued in 2012 by chief
                      judges and circuit judicial councils, examined various interpretive issues
                      regarding the Judicial Conference’s Rules for Judicial-Conduct and
                      Judicial-Disability Proceedings, and renewed its focus on judicial disability
                      issues. The Committee and its staff have continued to address inquiries
                      regarding the Act and the Rules and to give other assistance as needed to chief
                      judges and circuit judicial councils.


             COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                      ARTICLE III JUDGESHIPS

                              The Committee on Judicial Resources considered requests and
                      justifications for additional judgeships in the courts of appeals and the district
                      courts as part of its 2013 biennial judgeship survey process. Based on its
                      review, and after considering the views of the courts and the circuit judicial
                      councils, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference
                      recommend to Congress, for the courts of appeals, the addition of 5 permanent
                      judgeships and 1 temporary judgeship, and for the district courts, the addition
                      of 65 permanent judgeships and 20 temporary judgeships, plus the conversion
                      to permanent status of 8 existing temporary judgeships. The Committee also
                      recommended that language be included in the transmittal letter to Congress
                      that acknowledges the dire fiscal realities the country and the federal
                      government face and the possibility that all the judgeships will not be created
                      and that some prioritization may have to occur . The Conference adopted the
                      Committee’s recommendations, agreeing to transmit the following request to
                      Congress with the qualifying language referenced above (“P” denotes
                      permanent; “T” denotes temporary; “T/P” denotes conversion of temporary to
                      permanent):

                               Courts of Appeals

                               Sixth Circuit                 1P
                               Ninth Circuit                 4 P, 1 T

                               District Courts

                               New York (Eastern)            2P
                               New York (Southern)           1 P, 1 T
                               New York (Western)            1P
                               Delaware                      1P

                                                             18

Judicial Conference of the United States                                             March 12, 2013

                                New Jersey
                  2 P, 1 T
                                Virginia (Eastern) 
         1T
                                Texas (Eastern)
             2 P, 1 T/P
                                Texas (Southern)
            2P
                                Texas (Western)
             4 P, 1 T
                                Tennessee (Middle)
          1T
                                Indiana (Southern)
          1P
                                Wisconsin (Western)
         1P
                                Minnesota 
                  1 P, 1 T
                                Missouri (Eastern)
          1 T/P
                                Missouri (Western)
          1T
                                Arizona
                     6 P, 4 T, 1 T/P
                                California (Northern)
       5 P, 1 T
                                California (Eastern)
        6 P, 1 T
                                California (Central)
        10 P, 2 T, 1 T/P
                                California (Southern)
       3 P, 1 T
                                Idaho
                       1P
                                Nevada
                      1 P, 1 T
                                Oregon
                      1T
                                Washington (Western)
        2P
                                Colorado
                    2P
                                Kansas*
                     1 T/P
                                New Mexico
                  1 P, 1 T/P
                                Alabama (Northern)
          1 T/P
                                Florida (Northern)
          1P
                                Florida (Middle)
            5 P, 1 T
                                Florida (Southern) 
         3 P, 1 T/P
                                Georgia (Northern)
          1 P, 1 T

                                * If the temporary judgeship in this district lapses, the Judicial
                                Conference’s recommendation would be amended to one additional
                                permanent judgeship.


                       CHAMBERS STAFF

                               After discussion, the Judicial Conference agreed to permit withdrawal
                       of the Committee’s recommendation that the Judicial Conference (a) amend
                       the chambers staffing allocation to replace the secretary position with a new
                       Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP) position, called a “chambers administrative




                                                             19

Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 12, 2013

                      position,” (b) adopt qualification standards for the new position, and
                      (c) modify the qualification standards for the assistant secretary position.


                      PROBATION AND PRETRIAL SERVICES

                               As a cost-containment measure, the Budget Committee asked the
                      Judicial Resources Committee, in consultation with the Committee on
                      Criminal Law, to consider recommending a change in the Judicial
                      Conference’s staffing policy so that centralized funding would no longer be
                      provided for both a chief probation officer and a chief pretrial services officer
                      within the same district. The Committee on Judicial Resources and the
                      Criminal Law Committee jointly solicited comments from district courts and
                      circuit judicial councils with separate probation and pretrial service offices,
                      and the Judicial Resources Committee plans to consider those comments at its
                      June 2013 meeting. As an interim measure, the Judicial Resources Committee
                      recommended that the Judicial Conference encourage the 22 district courts
                      with separate probation and pretrial services offices with vacancies in chief
                      positions to consider not making permanent appointments to such positions
                      pending the Conference’s decision on whether to modify the existing policy.
                      The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                      PRIVATE ASSOCIATION TRAINING

                             After discussion, the Judicial Conference declined to approve a
                      Committee recommendation to impose a three-year moratorium on
                      decentralized and centralized funding of travel for court employees to attend
                      learning and development programs provided by private associations at their
                      meetings.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that, at the Executive
                      Committee’s request, it provided its views regarding proposed revisions to the
                      jurisdictional statements of the Judicial Resources Committee and three other
                      committees that were intended to clarify committee jurisdiction over
                      compensation and staffing of non-judge personnel in the courts and defender
                      organizations. Also at the request of the Executive Committee, the Judicial
                      Resources Committee reviewed the current method of allocating court reporter
                      funding to the courts, with a view toward ensuring more efficient use of

                                                             20

Judicial Conference of the United States 	                                             March 12, 2013

                       existing court reporter resources. The Committee asked the Administrative
                       Office to gather additional cost data and provide information on potential
                       approaches for maximizing the utilization of court reporter resources.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL SECURITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it endorsed changes
                       recommended by the U.S. Marshals Service to the court security officer (CSO)
                       staffing standards, noting that there will be no net reduction in CSO
                       requirements nationwide under the newly endorsed standards. The Committee
                       referred to a subcommittee for study the issue of whether all court and
                       chambers personnel should pass through a metal detector, and whether their
                       carried objects should pass through an x-ray machine, before they are allowed
                       entry to court space.


              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
              OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                       CHANGES IN MAGISTRATE JUDGE POSITIONS

                               At the request of the respective district courts, and with the approval of
                       the respective circuit judicial councils, the Committee on the Administration
                       of the Magistrate Judges System recommended that the Judicial Conference
                       redesignate the locations of the following magistrate judge positions:

                       (a)	    in the Eastern District of North Carolina, the full-time magistrate judge
                               position at Greenville as Wilmington, and the part-time magistrate
                               judge position at Wilmington as Greenville; and

                       (b) 	   in the Southern District of Florida, a full-time magistrate judge
                               position at Miami as Fort Lauderdale.


                       SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT REGULATIONS

                             On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       amended the Regulations of the Judicial Conference of the United States

                                                              21

Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 12, 2013

                      Establishing Standards and Procedures for the Appointment and
                      Reappointment of United States Magistrate Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy,
                      Vol. 3, § 420.30.20(c), to allow retired magistrate judges and bankruptcy
                      judges who are not serving on recall to serve on magistrate judge merit
                      selection panels. Previously, the regulations precluded all federal judges,
                      including retired judges, from serving on such panels. After weighing the
                      value that retired magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges could bring to the
                      process against any concerns that such judges would be perceived as still part
                      of the court, the Committee, in recommending amendment of the regulations,
                      concluded that district courts should have the discretion to include them.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                      reported that, pursuant to Judicial Conference policy regarding the review of
                      magistrate judge position vacancies (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 26), the Committee
                      chair approved filling six full-time magistrate judge position vacancies and
                      one part-time magistrate judge position vacancy in seven district courts during
                      the period between the Committee’s June 2012 and December 2012 meetings.
                      The Committee adopted revisions to the document entitled “Suggestions for
                      Utilization of Magistrate Judges,” which serves as an advisory resource on
                      magistrate judge utilization. The Committee also formed a subcommittee to
                      make recommendations to the full Committee on requests for the recall of
                      retired magistrate judges when such requests require review by the Committee
                      in between meetings. The Committee communicated its views to the
                      Executive Committee on changes to its jurisdictional statement that had been
                      tentatively approved by the Executive Committee.


             COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
                      FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

                              The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure submitted to the
                      Judicial Conference a proposed amendment to Civil Rule 77 (Conducting
                      Business; Clerk’s Authority; Notice of an Order or Judgment), together with
                      committee notes explaining its purpose and intent. The Judicial Conference
                      approved the amendment and authorized its transmittal to the Supreme Court
                      for consideration with a recommendation that it be adopted by the Court and
                      transmitted to Congress in accordance with the law.


                                                            22

Judicial Conference of the United States 	                                             March 12, 2013



                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                       approved for publication proposed amendments to two Federal Rules of Civil
                       Procedure. The proposed amendment to Civil Rule 6(d), the rule allowing an
                       additional 3 days after certain kinds of service, is intended to defeat the
                       argument that a party who must act within a specified time after making
                       service can extend the time to act by choosing a method of service that
                       provides added time. The proposed amendment to Rule 55(c), the rule
                       regarding setting aside a default or default judgment, is intended to make clear
                       that the standards of Rule 60(b) apply only to the setting aside of a final
                       default judgment. The proposed amendments are expected to be published for
                       public comment in August 2013.


               COMMITTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
                       SECURITY PAVILIONS

                               As security concerns have increased in recent years, some courts have
                       determined that lobbies in their courthouses do not have adequate room to
                       accommodate the equipment and queuing space necessary for security
                       screening, or are not engineered to withstand the force of a package bomb, and
                       have looked to exterior security pavilions as a solution. However, in at least
                       two recent instances, the funding for those security pavilions (which were
                       constructed as annexes to existing courthouses) was obtained outside of the
                       regular Judicial Conference space request and approval process. Noting that
                       once built, these annexes increase the judiciary’s recurring space and security
                       costs, the Committee recommended that all future security pavilion annexes
                       receive both appropriate committee and Conference approval prior to
                       construction. Specifically the Committee recommended that—

                       a.	     The current Circuit Rent Budget program process for approval of
                               Component B projects should be applied to any request for
                               construction of a security pavilion to adjoin an existing court building,
                               so that any potential increase in rent costs can be considered along
                               with other aspects of the project. These projects must receive
                               Committee and Conference approval.




                                                              23

Judicial Conference of the United States	                                                 March 12, 2013

                      b.	      The Committee on Judicial Security must review any request for
                               construction of a security pavilion before it is considered by the rent
                               management subcommittee of the Committee on Space and Facilities,
                               so that the need for the pavilion from a security standpoint, as well as
                               the impact of the project on the Court Security appropriation, can be
                               taken into account.

                      The Conference approved the Space and Facilities Committee’s
                      recommendations.


                      COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that at the request of
                      the Budget Committee’s Economy Subcommittee, the chairs of the Space and
                      Facilities Committee, the Court Administration and Case Management
                      Committee, and the Judicial Resources Committee have been working
                      together to review the space, staffing, and collection costs of the library
                      program to see if further cost containment is possible. The House
                      Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Subcommittee on Economic
                      Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management asked the
                      Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study the judiciary’s
                      development of its capital planning process; it is anticipated that a final report
                      on this study will be presented to the House subcommittee in April 2013. The
                      GAO was also asked by that subcommittee to study the judiciary’s use and
                      disposal of old federal courthouses; staff will monitor the status of this study.


             FUNDING
                              All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                      funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                      the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                      establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                     Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                     Presiding

                                                              24
