Judicial Conference of the United States                                         September 9, 2015

REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


Special Session
September 9, 2015


                              The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in special
                      session by teleconference on September 9, 2015, pursuant to the call of the
                      Chief Justice of the United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief
                      Justice presided, and the following members of the Conference participated:

                               First Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Jeffrey R. Howard
                                           Judge Paul J. Barbadoro,
                                                  District of New Hampshire

                               Second Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Robert A. Katzmann
                                           Judge William M. Skretny,
                                                  Western District of New York

                               Third Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                           Chief Judge Leonard P. Stark,
                                                  District of Delaware

                               Fourth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.
                                           Judge Deborah K. Chasanow,
                                                  District of Maryland
Judicial Conference of the United States                                             September 9, 2015

                               Fifth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Carl E. Stewart
                                           Chief Judge Louis Guirola, Jr.,
                                                  Southern District of Mississippi

                               Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ransey Guy Cole, Jr.
                                           Judge Paul Lewis Maloney,
                                                  Western District of Michigan

                               Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Diane P. Wood
                                           Chief Judge Rubén Castillo,
                                                  Northern District of Illinois

                               Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Karen E. Scheier,
                                                  District of South Dakota

                               Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Sidney R. Thomas
                                           Judge Robert S. Lasnik,
                                                  Western District of Washington

                               Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe
                                           Judge Dee V. Benson,
                                                  District of Utah

                               Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Judge Federico A. Moreno,
                                                  Southern District of Florida



                                                          Sp.Sess. 2
Judicial Conference of the United States                                         September 9, 2015

                               District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Merrick B. Garland
                                           Chief Judge Richard W. Roberts,
                                                  District of Columbia

                               Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Sharon Prost

                               Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Timothy C. Stanceu

                             Chief Judge Ed Carnes of the Eleventh Circuit recused himself from
                      this matter.

                             Also participating at this session of the Conference were Judge
                      Anthony J. Scirica, Chair of the Committee on Judicial Conduct and
                      Disability, and from the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
                      James C. Duff, Director; Jill C. Sayenga, Deputy Director; Sheryl L. Walter,
                      General Counsel; Erin Louise Palmer, Assistant General Counsel; Katherine
                      H. Simon, Secretariat Officer, and Helen Bornstein, Senior Attorney, Judicial
                      Conference Secretariat; and David A. Sellers, Public Affairs Officer. Jeffrey
                      P. Minear, Counselor to the Chief Justice also participated.


             PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND
             DISABILITY ACT
                              The Chief Justice called this special teleconference session of the
                      Judicial Conference to consider a certificate issued on June 1, 2015, by the
                      Judicial Council of the Eleventh Circuit pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 354(b)(2)(A),
                      conveying a determination that Judge Mark E. Fuller, of the United States
                      District Court for the Middle District of Alabama, had engaged in conduct that
                      might constitute one or more grounds for impeachment under Article II of the
                      United States Constitution. On June 4, 2015, this matter, In re: Judicial
                      Complaints Nos. 11-14-90080, 11-14-90081, 11-14-90096, and 11-14-90101,
                      was referred to the Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability, which in
                      September 2015 issued a report with recommendations to the Judicial



                                                         Sp.Sess. 3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                           September 9, 2015

                      Conference, as required by the rules adopted by the Judicial Conference for
                      processing such complaints.

                              In advance of the teleconference, the members of the Judicial
                      Conference were given copies of the Judicial Conduct and Disability
                      Committee’s report and recommendations, as well as documents from the
                      record of the proceedings before the Eleventh Circuit Judicial Council. The
                      report and recommendations included a proposed certification to the House of
                      Representatives that consideration of impeachment may be warranted.

                              At the teleconference, the Chief Justice afforded each member of the
                      Conference the opportunity to comment upon the proposed certification.
                      After discussion, the Conference agreed to certify to the House of
                      Representatives, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 355(b)(1), the Conference’s
                      determination that consideration of impeachment may be warranted, to
                      transmit to the House of Representatives records of the proceedings, and to
                      adopt and include the following certificate:

                                    TO THE SPEAKER, UNITED STATES HOUSE OF
                               REPRESENTATIVES:

                                       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 355(b)(1), the Judicial
                               Conference of the United States certifies to the House of
                               Representatives its determination that consideration of
                               impeachment of former United States District Judge Mark E.
                               Fuller (M.D. Ala.) may be warranted. This determination is
                               based on evidence provided in the Report of the Special
                               Committee to the Judicial Council of the Eleventh Circuit and
                               unanimously adopted by the Circuit Judicial Council.

                                       The Constitution entrusts impeachment of public
                               officials to Congress. But the Judicial Conduct and Disability
                               Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-64, creates a distinct role for the
                               Judiciary in the impeachment process. The Act mandates a
                               process through which the Judicial Conference and its
                               members identify and investigate allegations of misconduct by
                               judges. However, there may be considerations relevant to
                               impeachment of other officers outside the Judicial Branch that
                               are different from those faced by the Judiciary under the Act.

                                       In a case with less egregious and protracted conduct, the
                               Judicial Conference may decide that resignation obviates the

                                                          Sp.Sess. 4
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 9, 2015

                               need for certification. However, given the severity of the
                               misconduct outlined below, together with a finding of perjury,
                               the Judicial Conference believes that certification of this matter
                               “to the House of Representatives for whatever action the House
                               of Representatives considers to be necessary” is appropriate.
                               28 U.S.C. § 355(b)(1).

                                      The Judicial Conference also recognizes that, given
                               Judge Fuller’s resignation, Congress may decline to pursue
                               impeachment. In the event that the House of Representatives
                               determines in its sound discretion that impeachment is not
                               warranted, this certification may also serve as a public censure
                               of Judge Fuller’'s reprehensible conduct, which has no doubt
                               brought disrepute to the Judiciary and cannot constitute the
                               “good behavior” required of a federal judge.

                                       The determination is based on substantial evidence
                               provided in the Report of the Special Committee to the Judicial
                               Council of the Eleventh Circuit, as adopted by the Circuit
                               Judicial Council, that:

                                       (a) Judge Fuller physically abused Kelli Fuller at least
                               eight times, both before and after they married, which included
                               and culminated in the assault that took place on August 9,
                               2014, in the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in downtown Atlanta, Georgia.

                                       (b) Judge Fuller made repeated statements under oath
                               before the Special Committee that he never, at any time, hit,
                               kicked, or punched Kelli Fuller, which were false and material
                               under 18 U.S.C. § 1621.

                                       (c) Judge Fuller made false statements to the Chief
                               Judge of the Eleventh Circuit in late September 2010 in a way
                               that caused a massive disruption in the District Court’s
                               operation and loss of public confidence in the Court as an
                               instrument of justice. These false statements, in combination
                               with the actions outlined in (a) and (b), contributed to the
                               overall determination that Judge Fuller’s conduct may
                               constitute grounds for impeachment.




                                                          Sp.Sess. 5
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            September 9, 2015



                                      (d) The conduct described in (a)-(c) has individually
                               and collectively brought disrepute to the federal Judiciary.

                                       Executed this 9th day of September, 2015.

                                                                             /s/
                                                                      James C. Duff
                                                                      Secretary




                                                                      Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                      Presiding




                                                         Sp.Sess. 6
