REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
OF THE UNITED STATES


March 15, 2016


                     The Judicial Conference of the United States convened in Washington,
             D.C., on March 15, 2016, pursuant to the call of the Chief Justice of the
             United States issued under 28 U.S.C. § 331. The Chief Justice presided, and
             the following members of the Conference were present:

                    First Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Jeffrey R. Howard
                                Judge Paul J. Barbadoro,
                                       District of New Hampshire

                    Second Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Robert A. Katzmann
                                Judge William M. Skretny,
                                       Western District of New York

                    Third Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Theodore A. McKee
                                Chief Judge Leonard P. Stark,
                                       District of Delaware

                    Fourth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge William B. Traxler, Jr.
                                Judge Robert J. Conrad, Jr.,
                                       Western District of North Carolina

                    Fifth Circuit:

                                Chief Judge Carl E. Stewart
                                Chief Judge Louis Guirola, Jr.,
                                       Southern District of Mississippi
Judicial Conference of the United States                                            March 15, 2016

                                Sixth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ransey Guy Cole, Jr.
                                           Judge Paul Lewis Maloney,
                                                  Western District of Michigan

                                Seventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Diane P. Wood
                                           Chief Judge Michael J. Reagan,
                                                  Southern District of Illinois

                                Eighth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge William Jay Riley
                                           Judge Karen E. Schreier,
                                                  District of South Dakota

                                Ninth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Sidney R. Thomas
                                           Judge Claudia Wilken,
                                                  Northern District of California

                                Tenth Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Timothy M. Tymkovich
                                           Judge Martha Vazquez,
                                                  District of New Mexico

                                Eleventh Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Ed Carnes
                                           Judge Federico A. Moreno,
                                                  Southern District of Florida

                                District of Columbia Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Merrick B. Garland
                                           Chief Judge Richard W. Roberts,
                                                  District of Columbia


                                                                2
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 15, 2016


                                Federal Circuit:

                                           Chief Judge Sharon Prost

                                Court of International Trade:

                                           Chief Judge Timothy C. Stanceu

                               The following Judicial Conference committee chairs also attended the
                       Conference session: Circuit Judges Richard R. Clifton, Steven M. Colloton,
                       Allyson K. Duncan, Julia Smith Gibbons, Thomas M. Hardiman, Anthony J.
                       Scirica, and D. Brooks Smith; and District Judges John D. Bates, Catherine C.
                       Blake, Gary A. Fenner, David R. Herndon, Wm. Terrell Hodges, Irene M.
                       Keeley, Royce C. Lamberth, Donald W. Molloy, Lawrence L. Piersol,
                       Danny C. Reeves, Richard Seeborg, Rodney W. Sippel, and Lawrence F.
                       Stengel. Attending as the bankruptcy judge and magistrate judge observers,
                       respectively, were Chief Bankruptcy Judge Marcia Phillips Parsons and
                       Magistrate Judge Kevin N. Fox. Clarence Maddox, of the Sixth Circuit,
                       represented the circuit executives.

                               James C. Duff, Director of the Administrative Office of the United
                       States Courts, attended the session of the Conference, as did Jill
                       C. Sayenga, Deputy Director; Sheryl L. Walter, General Counsel; Katherine
                       H. Simon, Secretariat Officer, and Helen G. Bornstein, Senior Attorney,
                       Judicial Conference Secretariat; Cordia A. Strom, Legislative Affairs Officer;
                       and David A. Sellers, Public Affairs Officer. District Judge Jeremy D. Fogel,
                       Director, and John S. Cooke, Deputy Director, Federal Judicial Center; and
                       Chief District Judge Patti B. Saris, Chair, and Kenneth P. Cohen, Staff
                       Director, United States Sentencing Commission, were in attendance at the
                       session of the Conference, as was Jeffrey P. Minear, Counselor to the Chief
                       Justice, and Ethan V. Torrey, Supreme Court Legal Counsel.

                               Deputy Attorney General Sally Quillian Yates addressed the
                       Conference on matters of mutual interest to the judiciary and the Department
                       of Justice. Representatives Ander Crenshaw, Bob Goodlatte, and Darrell Issa
                       spoke on matters pending in Congress of interest to the Conference.




                                                                3
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 15, 2016


              REPORTS
                               Administrative Office Director James C. Duff reported to the Judicial
                       Conference on the judicial business of the courts and on matters relating to the
                       Administrative Office. Judge Jeremy D. Fogel spoke to the Conference about
                       Federal Judicial Center (FJC) programs and Chief Judge Patti B. Saris
                       reported on United States Sentencing Commission activities. Judge Thomas
                       M. Hardiman, Chair of the Committee on Information Technology, presented
                       a special report on information technology security.


              EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
                       STRATEGIC PLAN PRIORITIES

                               The Strategic Plan for the Federal Judiciary, updated by the Judicial
                       Conference in September 2015, identifies strategies and goals to enable the
                       federal judiciary to continue as a model in providing fair and impartial justice
                       (JCUS-SEP 15, pp. 5-6; JCUS-SEP 10, pp. 5-6). The approach to strategic
                       planning, approved by the Conference when the Plan was first adopted,
                       provides for the identification, every two years, of strategies and goals from
                       the Plan that should receive priority attention. These priorities are identified
                       by the Executive Committee, with suggestions from Conference committees
                       (JCUS-SEP 10, p. 6).

                               At its February 2016 meeting, the Executive Committee considered
                       suggestions from the Conference committees regarding which strategies and
                       goals should receive priority attention in the next two years. The Committee
                       noted continuing broad support among the committees for the priorities that
                       had been identified in 2011 and affirmed in 2013, and agreed with a
                       suggestion from two committees that Goal 4.1d relating to security of
                       judiciary records be given priority attention in light of the increasing
                       importance of information technology security. After discussion, the
                       Committee added one new goal (Goal 4.1d) and affirmed the four strategies
                       and one goal previously identified to establish the following as priorities for
                       the next two years:

                                Strategy 1.1 Pursue improvements in the delivery of justice on a
                                             nationwide basis.




                                                               4
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 15, 2016


                                Strategy 1.3 Secure resources that are sufficient to enable the
                                             judiciary to accomplish its mission in a manner
                                             consistent with judiciary core values.
                                Strategy 2.1 Allocate and manage resources more efficiently
                                             and effectively.
                                Strategy 4.1 Harness the potential of technology to identify
                                             and meet the needs of court users for
                                             information, service, and access to the courts.
                                Goal 4.1d    Refine and update security practices to ensure the
                                             confidentiality, integrity, and availability of judiciary-
                                             related records and information.
                                Goal 7.2b    Communicate and collaborate with
                                             organizations outside the judicial branch to
                                             improve the public’s understanding of the
                                             role and functions of the federal judiciary.


                       MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS

                                The Executive Committee —

                       •        Agreed on behalf of the Judicial Conference, on an expedited basis, to
                                change the effective date from December 1, 2015, to June 1, 2016, of a
                                previously approved increase (from $25 to $30) in the fee assessed for
                                processing violation notices through the Central Violations Bureau to
                                provide sufficient time for implementation of the change.

                       •        Approved and transmitted to the Supreme Court on behalf of the
                                Judicial Conference, on an expedited basis, proposed amendments to
                                Rules 7008, 7012, 7016, 9027, and 9033 of the Federal Rules of
                                Bankruptcy Procedure. These amendments had been approved by the
                                Judicial Conference in 2013 and transmitted to the Supreme Court for
                                approval, but were subsequently withdrawn at the request of the
                                Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure and recommitted to
                                that committee pending disposition of Supreme Court litigation
                                implicating the amendments. Following a decision in Wellness Int'l
                                Network, Ltd. v. Sharif, 135 S. Ct. 1932 (2015), the Rules Committee
                                determined that the proposed amendments should move forward as
                                originally drafted.




                                                                5
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                     March 15, 2016

                       •        Approved on behalf of the Conference, on an expedited basis, holding
                                in abeyance reductions, for fiscal year (FY) 2016, in pro se and death
                                penalty law clerks positions due to reductions in case filings, pending
                                Conference consideration of new staffing formulas for those positions
                                for use in FY 2018. See also infra, “Pro Se and Death Penalty Law
                                Clerk Staffing Allocations,” pp. 20-21.

                       •        Approved on behalf of the Conference, on an expedited basis, a
                                minimum staffing level of 3,186 full-time equivalent positions for
                                FY 2016 in implementing staffing formulas for bankruptcy clerks’
                                offices, pending Conference consideration of new staffing formulas for
                                those offices for use in FY 2018. See also infra, “Bankruptcy Clerks’
                                Offices Staffing Level,” p. 22.

                       •        Approved final financial plans for the Salaries and Expenses, Defender
                                Services, Court Security, and Fees of Jurors and Commissioners
                                accounts for FY 2016 based on appropriations included in the
                                Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016, Pub. L. No. 114-113,
                                updated requirements, carryforward balances, and estimated fee
                                collections.

                       •        Was advised by the Judicial Branch Committee that an annual
                                inflationary adjustment to the judges’ alternative maximum
                                subsistence allowance was not warranted at this time, but that an
                                inflationary adjustment for reimbursement of the actual cost of meals
                                would be allowed to go into effect (see Guide to Judiciary Policy,
                                Vol. 19, Ch. 2, § 250.20.20(b)(1))and § 250.20.30(b)).

                       •        Was informed by the Director of the AO that with regard to the
                                recently completed national cameras in the courtroom pilot program
                                (see infra, “Committee Activities,” p. 12), the Ninth Circuit Judicial
                                Council, in cooperation with the Judicial Conference, authorized the
                                three district courts in the Ninth Circuit that participated in the national
                                pilot (California-Northern, Washington-Western, and Guam) to
                                continue the pilot project under the same terms and conditions as the
                                national pilot, to provide longer term data and information to the
                                Committee on Court Administration and Case Management.

                       •        Approved on behalf of the Conference a resolution recognizing Chief
                                Judge Willaim B. Traxler, Jr., whose term of service as a member of
                                the Judicial Conference and Chair of the Executive Committee will
                                end in July 2016.

                                                                 6
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 15, 2016



              COMMITTEE ON AUDITS AND
              ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE ACCOUNTABILITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Audits and Administrative Office Accountability
                       was briefed by an independent audit firm on the draft results of an audit of the
                       judiciary’s appropriations for Salaries and Expenses, Defender Services, the
                       Federal Judicial Center, and the Administrative Office, for FY 2013 and FY
                       2014. Administrative Office staff reported on actions planned and underway
                       to address likely recommendations from the audit, including efforts to
                       improve financial reporting, the recording of obligations, and financial system
                       information technology controls. The audit firm also reported to the
                       Committee on the draft results of a pilot program to test an updated,
                       risk-based approach to cyclical audits of court units and federal public
                       defender organizations, and the Committee discussed lessons learned from
                       that pilot. The Committee also discussed internal control program
                       enhancements, including updates to software applications that assist court
                       units and federal public defender organizations in assessing internal controls.


              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
              OF THE BANKRUPTCY SYSTEM

                       TEMPORARY BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS

                               On recommendation of the Committee on the Administration of the
                       Bankruptcy System, the Conference authorized the Director of the
                       Administrative Office, after consultation with the Bankruptcy Committee, and
                       subject to approval of the Executive Committee, to seek separate legislation to
                       convert to permanent status any or all temporary judgeships that are included
                       in the March 2015 Judicial Conference bankruptcy judgeship recommendation
                       (JCUS-MAR 15, pp. 6-7). Granting this authority will enable the judiciary to
                       take advantage of every legislative opportunity to preserve temporary
                       judgeships while pursuing more comprehensive bankruptcy judgeship
                       legislation.




                                                              7
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 15, 2016



                       OFFICIAL DUTY STATION

                               On recommendation of the Bankruptcy Committee, and in accordance
                       with 28 U.S.C. § 152(b)(1), the Judicial Conference approved a request from
                       the Eastern District of California, with the approval of the Ninth Circuit
                       Judicial Council, to redesignate the official duty station of Chief Bankruptcy
                       Judge Ronald H. Sargis from Modesto to Sacramento in the Eastern District of
                       California.


                       HORIZONTAL CONSOLIDATION PILOT PROJECT

                               As part of judiciary’s ongoing initiative to evaluate cost-containment
                       proposals pertaining to the judiciary’s organizational structure, the Bankruptcy
                       Committee proposed a three-year pilot project to evaluate horizontal
                       consolidation of bankruptcy court clerks’ offices (i.e., consolidation of the
                       bankruptcy clerk’s office in one district with that in another district) to
                       determine whether such arrangements could produce savings without a
                       decrease in services. The pilot would also evaluate whether horizontal
                       consolidation could be an efficient and cost-effective alternative to vertical
                       consolidation (i.e., consolidation of the bankruptcy court clerk’s office with
                       the district court clerk’s office in the same district). Under the pilot’s
                       parameters, participation would be voluntary, and participating bankruptcy
                       courts and clerks of court would be guaranteed that upon termination of the
                       pilot (1) funds would be available to repopulate clerk’s office staffs as if the
                       pilot never occurred and (2) the position of “bankruptcy clerk” would not be
                       removed or terminated even if the position is vacant during the pilot. On
                       recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the
                       proposed pilot project and delegated to the Bankruptcy Committee the
                       authority to issue and amend guidelines to assist the pilot participants
                       consistent with the pilot’s parameters.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                              The Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System
                       reported that it is continuing to review and provide oversight of bankruptcy
                       judgeship resources. These efforts include updating the continuing need and
                       additional needs judgeship survey processes and addressing issues related to
                       temporary judgeships, multi-district designations, the bankruptcy vacancy


                                                              8
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 15, 2016


                       pilot project, and recalled bankruptcy judges. The Committee also informed
                       the Court Administration and Case Management and Judicial Resources
                       Committees that the proposal to consolidate the district and bankruptcy clerks’
                       offices in the District of Vermont demonstrated a projected cost savings and
                       substantially complied with the Judicial Conference guidelines for vertical
                       consolidation (see “Consolidation of the District and Bankruptcy Court
                       Clerks’ Offices in the District of Vermont,” infra, p. 10).


              COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Budget reported that although the judiciary has
                       received essentially full funding for three consecutive years, Congress may be
                       challenged to support basic inflationary adjustments and address new priorities
                       in the coming year due to flat non-defense discretionary caps for FY 2017.
                       The Budget Committee believes future budget constraints are likely and cost
                       containment will need to continue to be a top priority of the judiciary. The
                       Committee expressed appreciation for the unprecedented funding ($948
                       million) for courthouse construction and noted that it is imperative that the
                       judiciary stay within the overall funding provided by Congress for these
                       projects.


              COMMITTEE ON CODES OF CONDUCT
                       CERTIFICATES OF DIVESTITURE REGULATIONS

                                On recommendation of the Committee on Codes of Conduct, the
                       Judicial Conference adopted amendments to the Certificates of Divestiture
                       Regulations and Application for Certificate of Divestiture to aid the
                       Committee in readily obtaining the necessary information to respond to a
                       judge’s request for a certificate of divestiture. The changes require applicants
                       to state the acquisition date for the property they plan to divest, and state
                       where in the judge’s latest financial disclosure report the property they plan to
                       divest is reported, or explain why the property does not appear in that report.




                                                               9
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 15, 2016


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Codes of Conduct reported that since its last report
                       to the Judicial Conference in September 2015, the Committee received 30 new
                       written inquiries and issued 28 written advisory responses. During this period,
                       the average response time for those inquiries was 13 days. In addition, the
                       Committee chair responded to 19 informal inquiries, individual Committee
                       members responded to 159 informal inquiries, and Committee counsel
                       responded to 496 informal inquiries, for a total of 674 informal inquiries.


              COMMITTEE ON COURT ADMINISTRATION
              AND CASE MANAGEMENT

                        CONSOLIDATION OF THE DISTRICT AND BANKRUPTCY COURT
                        CLERKS’ OFFICES IN THE DISTRICT OF VERMONT

                                The district and bankruptcy courts in the District of Vermont submitted
                        a joint proposal, endorsed by the Second Circuit Judicial Council, to
                        consolidate the clerks’ offices for those courts pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 156(d)
                        and the Judicial Conference’s Procedures for Combining Functions of the
                        Clerks’ Offices in the District Courts and Bankruptcy Courts (JCUS-MAR 98,
                        pp. 10-11; Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 4, Ch. 2). The Committee on Court
                        Administration and Case Management reviewed the proposal and determined,
                        after consulting with the Bankruptcy Committee, that it met the Conference
                        requirements, including that the consolidation is voluntary and is expected to
                        produce cost savings without decreasing the quality of services to judges, the
                        bar, and the public. On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial
                        Conference approved the proposed consolidation. The proposal will be
                        submitted to Congress as required by 28 U.S.C. § 156(d). See also
                        “Committee Activities,” supra, pp. 8-9 and “Second Type II Chief Deputy
                        Clerk Position for the District of Vermont,” infra, p. 20.


                        FEES FOR THE ELECTRONIC RETRIEVAL OF RECORDS

                               The Judicial Conference establishes miscellaneous fee schedules for
                        the courts of appeals, district courts, the United States Court of Federal
                        Claims, bankruptcy courts, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation,
                        pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1913, 1914, 1926, 1930, and 1932, respectively. The

                                                              10
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 15, 2016


                        Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference amend the item in each
                        of these fee schedules pertaining to fees for retrieval of records from a Federal
                        Records Center, the National Archives, or other storage location removed
                        from the place of business of the court to add a new fee for the electronic
                        retrieval of records. In addition to a paper records retrieval service, the
                        National Archives and Records Administration now offers a “SmartScan”
                        service that provides requesters with same-day electronic delivery. The
                        Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation, amending Item 7 of
                        the Court of Appeals and District Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedules, Item 12
                        of the Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule, Item 11 of the United
                        States Court of Federal Claims Fee Schedule, and Item 4 of the Judicial Panel
                        on Multidistrict Litigation Fee Schedule as follows (new language in bold):

                                 For retrieval of one box of records from a Federal Records
                                 Center, National Archives, or other storage location removed
                                 from the place of business of the court, $64. For retrievals
                                 involving multiple boxes, $39 for each additional box. For
                                 electronic retrievals, $10 plus any charges assessed by the
                                 Federal Records Center, National Archives, or other
                                 storage location removed from the place of business of the
                                 courts.


                        EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS
                        DIVISIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                At the request of the Eastern District of Arkansas, and with the
                        approval of the Eighth Circuit Judicial Council, the Committee recommended
                        that the Judicial Conference seek legislation to amend 28 U.S.C. § 83(a) to
                        consolidate the district’s five divisions, the Eastern Division, the Western
                        Division, the Pine Bluff Division, the Northern Division, and the Jonesboro
                        Division, into three divisions as follows: the Delta Division (comprising the
                        counties of Arkansas, Chicot, Crittenden, Desha, Lee, Monroe, Phillips, and
                        Saint Francis); the Northern Division (comprising the counties of Clay,
                        Craighead, Cross, Fulton, Greene, Independence, Izard, Jackson, Lawrence,
                        Mississippi, Poinsett, Randolph, Sharp, and Woodruff); and the Central
                        Division (comprising the counties of Cleburne, Cleveland, Conway, Dallas,
                        Drew, Faulkner, Grant, Jefferson, Lincoln, Lonoke, Perry, Pope, Prairie,
                        Pulaski, Saline, Stone, Van Buren, White, and Yell). Court for the Delta
                        Division would be held at Helena, court for the Central Division would be
                        held at Little Rock, and court for the Northern Division would be held at


                                                               11
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 15, 2016

                        Jonesboro. The Committee noted that the proposal was designed to
                        accommodate the closure of courthouses in Batesville and Pine Bluff; balance
                        the caseload among the proposed new divisions, including work generated by
                        correctional facilities; address the geography of the district; and enhance
                        community accessibility. The Judicial Conference adopted the Committee’s
                        recommendation. See also supra, “Miscellaneous Actions,” pp. 5-6.


                        COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
                        reported that it continued its efforts to develop and evaluate structural and
                        organizational cost-containment proposals for the judiciary. In addition, after
                        consulting with relevant committees and consideration of a Federal Judicial
                        Center report that identified instances of harm and threats of harm to
                        cooperating defendants, the Committee endorsed a set of guidelines for courts
                        to consider adopting via local rule to prevent court documents from being used
                        to identify government cooperators. The Committee also agreed to ask the
                        Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure to consider potential rules
                        changes that would limit access to cooperation information in court filings.
                        The Committee reviewed a report from the Federal Judicial Center on the
                        Judicial Conference’s cameras in the courtroom pilot project, and agreed that
                        the findings of the report did not justify any change to the Judicial
                        Conference’s current broadcasting policy at this time. See also supra,
                        “Miscellaneous Actions,” pp. 5-6.


              COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL LAW
                       CYBERCRIME POLICY AND PROCEDURES

                               Noting the steady increase in the number of defendants and offenders
                       who use technology to facilitate their criminal activities and the limited
                       national guidance for probation and pretrial services officers in handling these
                       complex cases, the Criminal Law Committee recommended, and the Judicial
                       Conference approved, a new policy governing the management of defendants
                       and offenders whose conditions of release or supervision include internet and
                       computer management conditions. The policy presents officers with an array
                       of computer restrictions to facilitate the goals of release or sentencing,
                       including (1) requiring daily logs of computer and internet activities;
                       (2) limiting the defendant or offender to one device capable of accessing the
                       internet; (3) mandating the disclosure of internet service provider information

                                                              12
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 15, 2016


                       and passwords for computers, email accounts, and social network accounts;
                       (4) imposing qualified internet bans; (5) using internet filtering software; and
                       (6) conducting internet and computer monitoring and computer searches.


                       LOCATION MONITORING POLICY AND PROCEDURES

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       approved revisions to the Federal Location Monitoring Program, Guide to
                       Judiciary Policy, Vol. 8, Pt. F, to update the guidance on the program and to
                       separate the over-arching policies associated with managing the location
                       monitoring program from the administrative and technical procedures related to
                       implementation of those policies. The technical and administrative procedures
                       will be included in a new publication, The Location Monitoring Procedures
                       Manual, which will be a separate resource from the Guide.


                       WITNESS SECURITY MANUAL

                               The Department of Justice operates the federal witness security
                       (WITSEC) program and determines whether to authorize protection for a
                       cooperating witness. When a witness is terminated from the WITSEC
                       program, the Department is no longer obligated to provide protection.
                       However, probation and pretrial services officers who investigate or supervise
                       WITSEC cases are guided by the Witness Security Manual approved by the
                       Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR 95, p. 18), pursuant to which probation and
                       pretrial services officers generally continue to treat former protected witnesses
                       as though they were still active witnesses. The Criminal Law Committee
                       recommended that the Judicial Conference approve revisions to the Witness
                       Security Manual to align probation and pretrial services practices with those of
                       the Department of Justice to provide that all former WITSEC participants are
                       subject to standard procedures. Districts retain discretion to provide additional
                       protection where specific security concerns are cited. The Conference
                       approved the Committee’s recommendation.


                       SENTENCING REFORM LEGISLATION

                              The Senate and House of Representatives introduced major sentencing
                       reform legislation in the 114th Congress, S. 2123 (Sentencing Reform and
                       Corrections Act of 2015) and H.R. 3713 (Sentencing Reform Act of 2015).

                                                               13
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 15, 2016

                       These bills would, among other things, retroactively reduce several mandatory
                       minimum penalties and otherwise moderate their effects. Based on the
                       Conference’s longstanding views opposing mandatory minimums and
                       supporting efforts to ameliorate their effects, the Criminal Law Committee
                       recommended that the Conference support the retroactivity provisions in
                       S. 2123 and H.R. 3713, or any similar legislation, designed to ameliorate the
                       effects of mandatory minimum sentences, and encourage Congress to provide
                       the resources needed to implement the provisions efficiently and effectively.
                       The Conference adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Criminal Law reported that it was briefed on trends
                       in federal pretrial release and detention rates and discussed strategies designed
                       to reduce unnecessary pretrial detention and reasonably ensure that released
                       defendants will appear in court as required and not pose a danger to the safety
                       of the community pending their appearance. The Committee also continued its
                       review of the standard and special conditions of probation and supervised
                       release, and worked closely with the United States Sentencing Commission
                       (USSC) as it considered amending the list of standard conditions in the USSC
                       Guidelines Manual. Finally, the Committee was briefed on the revisions to the
                       probation and pretrial services office review protocols, which were made in
                       response to the Committee’s request to promote the independent nature of the
                       reviews and ensure that chief judges are informed of the progress made by their
                       offices in addressing findings related to community safety.


              COMMITTEE ON DEFENDER SERVICES
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Defender Services reported that it received an
                       update on the comprehensive, impartial review of the Criminal Justice Act
                       (CJA) program currently underway. The chair of the Defender Services
                       Committee and the chair of the Committee’s Budget Subcommittee will testify
                       in April 2016 at a public hearing of the ad hoc committee established by the
                       Chief Justice to conduct the review. The Defender Services Committee also
                       received an update on the final results of national surveys of judges, CJA panel
                       attorneys, and federal defenders, that are used to assess the quality and
                       effectiveness of the Defender Services program.


                                                              14
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 15, 2016


              COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL-STATE JURISDICTION
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction reported that it continued
                       its discussion of issues raised by a resolution adopted by the American Bar
                       Association urging Congress to amend the diversity jurisdiction statute,
                       28 U.S.C. § 1332, to redefine the citizenship of unincorporated associations.
                       Under the proposal, unincorporated associations would be treated like
                       corporations for purposes of determining diversity. The Committee also
                       reviewed several legislative proposals of interest to the federal judiciary,
                       including legislation related to fraudulent joinder, jurisdictional provisions in
                       patent reform legislation, immigration reform legislation, and legislation that
                       would amend section 1500 of title 28 concerning the jurisdiction of the United
                       States Court of Federal Claims and the district courts when cases are filed in
                       both forums.


              COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Financial Disclosure reported that filers will no
                       longer be permitted to report assets as aggregate ownership arrangements,
                       which allowed the income and value of the underlying assets in certain
                       individual retirement accounts, trusts, investment clubs, and similar
                       arrangements to be combined into a total value and a total income. Instead,
                       each reportable asset must include its value and income. In addition, for the
                       convenience of the filers and staff, the Committee determined that grants of
                       redaction will expire uniformly on December 31 of the year granted, as
                       opposed to one year from the date of the grant.

                               As of January 4, 2016, the Committee had received 4,301 financial
                       disclosure reports and certifications for calendar year 2014 (out of a total of
                       4,424 required to file), including 1,325 annual reports from Supreme Court
                       justices and Article III judges; 343 annual reports from bankruptcy judges;
                       563 annual reports from magistrate judges; 1,714 annual reports from judicial
                       employees; and 356 reports from nominees and initial and final filers.




                                                              15
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 15, 2016

               COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Information Technology reported that it received a
                       preliminary report of an independent security review and testing of the
                       judiciary’s information technology systems. It approved three new security
                       policies: (1) requiring automated tools to prevent malicious software from
                       entering the local area network through internet connections; (2) restricting
                       assignment of administrative accounts; and (3) clarifying the Administrative
                       Office’s network security management responsibilities to include penetration
                       testing, comprehensive security assessment, emergency measures, blocking
                       malicious activity (including connectivity to known hostile sites and prohibited
                       technologies such as peer-to-peer with external parties), and the use of
                       technologies to detect vulnerabilities and block malicious activity within
                       encrypted connections.


               COMMITTEE ON INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENTS
                       GUIDELINES FOR THE INTERCIRCUIT ASSIGNMENT OF
                       ARTICLE III, BANKRUPTCY, AND MAGISTRATE JUDGES

                               In February 2013, the Executive Committee amended the jurisdiction of
                       the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments to give that committee primary
                       responsibility for recommending guidelines to the Judicial Conference
                       governing the intercircuit assignment of bankruptcy and magistrate judges.
                       The Committee already had jurisdiction over the intercircuit assignment of
                       Article III judges. The intent was to foster the coordinated, consistent, and
                       cost-conscious utilization of visiting judges by having a single lead committee
                       provide oversight and policy advice regarding all visiting judge assignments.
                       In furtherance of this goal, the Committee on Intercircuit Assignments
                       reviewed the guidelines for the three judge types and, after consulting with the
                       Committees on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System and the
                       Magistrate Judges System, recommended changes to the guidelines to make
                       them consistent in style and content, where appropriate.
                       Revisions included limiting long-term intercircuit assignments to six-month
                       intervals for all judge types, requiring the consent of the visiting judge for all
                       judge types, and adding provisions on cost effectiveness. The Judicial
                       Conference approved the amendments to the guidelines for the intercircuit


                                                              16
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 15, 2016


                       assignment of bankruptcy judges and magistrate judges. The guidelines for the
                       intercircuit assignment of Article III judges are approved by the Chief Justice.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Intercircuit Assignments reported that 74 intercircuit
                       assignments were undertaken by 55 Article III judges from July 1, 2015, to
                       December 31, 2015. During this time, the Committee continued to disseminate
                       information about intercircuit assignments and aided courts requesting
                       assistance by identifying and obtaining judges willing to take assignments. The
                       Committee also reviewed and concurred with two proposed intercircuit
                       assignments of bankruptcy judges.


              COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL RELATIONS
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on International Judicial Relations reported about its
                       involvement in rule of law and judicial reform activities throughout the world,
                       highlighting activities in Africa, Europe and Eurasia, Latin America, the
                       Middle East, and East and South Asia. Briefing reports were provided by the
                       United States Department of State, Department of Justice, Agency for
                       International Development, and Patent and Trademark Office, as well as the
                       Open World Leadership Center at the Library of Congress, the Federal Judicial
                       Center, the Administrative Office, and U.S. court administrators. The
                       Committee also reported on hosting foreign delegations of jurists and judicial
                       personnel for briefings at the Administrative Office.


              COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
                       REPORTING OF NON-CASE RELATED TRAVEL

                               On recommendation of the Committee on the Judicial Branch, the
                       Judicial Conference approved non-substantive amendments to its policy on
                       reporting of non-case related travel (Travel Regulations for Justices and
                       Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 19, Ch. 2, § 270) to clarify ambiguous



                                                              17
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 15, 2016

                       language, remove redundant phrases, organize the categories of reportable
                       travel, and enhance the examples of what is not considered reportable.


                       DUTY STATION DEFINITION FOR SENIOR
                       AND RECALLED JUDGES

                               On recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference
                       amended the definition of official duty station set forth in the Travel
                       Regulations for Justices and Judges, Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 19, Ch. 2,
                       § 210.30.50(f), pertaining to Article III judges in senior status, and
                       § 210.30.50(g), pertaining to recalled bankruptcy and magistrate judges, to
                       conform to the definition of official duty station set forth in 28 U.S.C. § 374.
                       The Conference also amended section (g) to make it applicable to recalled
                       Court of Federal Claims judges, as they are governed by the same statute
                       (28 U.S.C. § 374) as recalled bankruptcy and magistrate judges. The travel
                       regulations now provide that the official duty station for a senior judge or a
                       recalled bankruptcy, magistrate, or Court of Federal Claims judge is the actual
                       abode in which he or she customarily lives (i.e., the judge’s primary residence),
                       in conformance with the statute.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on the Judicial Branch reported that it participated in
                       the third Judicial-Congressional Dialogue, an initiative that began in 2014 with
                       the goal of increasing understanding between the legislative and judicial
                       branches. Associate Justice Stephen Breyer joined 20 judges and several
                       members of the Senate and House Judiciary Committees, including committee
                       leadership, for the event. The Committee also met with Mr. Howard Berman,
                       a former U.S. Representative and senior member of the House Judiciary
                       Committee, and Mr. Richard Hertling, former chief counsel of the House
                       Judiciary Committee. Both Mr. Berman and Mr. Hertling emphasized the
                       importance of informal, non-agenda interaction with Congress and open lines
                       of communication with the legislative branch.




                                                              18
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                March 15, 2016


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND DISABILITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Judicial Conduct and Disability reported that it
                       discussed and considered complaint-related matters under the Judicial Conduct
                       and Disability Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 351-64, as well as reviewed complaint-related
                       orders issued in 2014-2015 by chief judges and circuit judicial councils. In
                       addition, the Committee hosted a presentation by Dr. Michael Gendel on
                       challenges facing the federal judiciary from a medical perspective. The
                       Committee and its staff have continued to address inquiries regarding the Act
                       and the Rules for Judicial-Conduct and Judicial-Disability Proceedings, and to
                       give other assistance, as needed, to chief judges and circuit judicial councils.


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL RESOURCES
                       DISTRICT COURT CASE WEIGHTS

                               Weighted caseload per judgeship is one of the factors considered in
                       determining the need for additional district judgeships. Noting that district
                       court case weights had not been updated since 2004, the Committee on Judicial
                       Resources asked the Federal Judicial Center to conduct an event-based study of
                       time spent by judges on criminal and civil cases in district court. The study
                       combined both objective and subjective measures of judicial time expended on
                       each case type. Based on this study, the Committee recommended, and the
                       Judicial Conference approved, new district court case weights for each civil
                       and criminal case type.


                       COURT LAW CLERKS

                               The Judicial Conference has approved three phases of a test program to
                       evaluate whether providing additional law clerks in courts with extremely
                       heavy caseloads could expedite case resolution (JCUS-MAR 11, p. 23; JCUS-
                       MAR 14, p. 21; JCUS-SEP 15, p. 21). The first phase has ended and the
                       second and third phases will end on September 30, 2017 and September 30,
                       2018, respectively. The Committee recommended that the expiration date for
                       the second phase be extended to September 30, 2018, so that the second and



                                                             19
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 15, 2016

                       third phases end together. The Conference approved the Committee’s
                       recommendation.


                       SECOND TYPE II CHIEF DEPUTY CLERK POSITION
                       FOR THE DISTRICT OF VERMONT

                               At this session, the Judicial Conference approved a proposal to
                       consolidate the district and bankruptcy court clerks’ offices in the District of
                       Vermont, which will be submitted to Congress as required by
                       28 U.S.C § 156(d) (see “Consolidation of the District and Bankruptcy Court
                       Clerks’ Offices in the District of Vermont,” supra, p. 10). As part of that
                       proposal, the Second Circuit Judicial Council and the District of Vermont
                       requested a second Judiciary Salary Plan (JSP)-16 Type II chief deputy clerk
                       position to address the new demands of a consolidated environment. Because
                       the District of Vermont has fewer than ten authorized judgeships, even as a
                       consolidated court, Judicial Conference approval is required (see JCUS-SEP
                       04, p. 23). Concluding that a second JSP-16 Type II chief deputy clerk position
                       was necessary to the successful consolidation of the district and bankruptcy
                       clerks’ offices under the proposal, and noting that the Committee on Court
                       Administration and Case Management, in consultation with the Bankruptcy
                       Committee, recommended approval of the consolidation, the Judicial
                       Resources Committee recommended approval of a second JSP-16 Type II chief
                       deputy clerk position for the District of Vermont, to be funded with the court’s
                       decentralized funds, assuming consolidation of the district and bankruptcy
                       court clerks’ offices in this district. The Conference approved the
                       Committee’s recommendation.


                       PRO SE AND DEATH PENALTY LAW CLERK STAFFING
                       ALLOCATIONS

                                In response to a request from a chief district judge, joined by 78 chief
                       district judges, the Committee on Judicial Resources recommended that the
                       Judicial Conference hold in abeyance for FY 2016 and FY 2017 any reductions
                       in pro se law clerk allocations due to reductions in case filings, pending
                       consideration of a new pro se law clerk staffing formula for implementation in
                       FY 2018. The Committee also recommended that death penalty law clerks be
                       treated similarly, as pro se and death penalty law clerks have integrated their
                       workload in many districts, and a new death penalty law clerk staffing formula
                       will also be considered for implementation in FY 2018. The Committee noted
                       that several factors weighed in favor of the request, including that the data on

                                                              20
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                       March 15, 2016


                       which the staffing formulas are based are becoming outdated and a more
                       comprehensive data collection method is now used to develop staffing
                       formulas. Because FY 2016 terminations were scheduled to occur on
                       December 31, 2015, prior to the March 2016 Conference session, the Executive
                       Committee acted on behalf of the Judicial Conference on the portion of the
                       recommendation pertaining to FY 2016 terminations (see “Miscellaneous
                       Actions,” supra, pp. 5-6). At this session, the Judicial Conference agreed to
                       continue to suspend such terminations through FY 2017, pending consideration
                       of new staffing formulas for FY 2018.


                       VERA AND VSIP PROGRAMS

                               The Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA) (“early retirement”)
                       and Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) (“buyout”) programs are
                       workforce planning tools that courts and federal public defender organizations
                       can employ to restructure or downsize their organizations. Noting that court
                       unit executives have successfully utilized these programs to better position
                       their workforces to have the skills needed in the future, as well as to deal with
                       significant budget constraints, the Committee recommended that the
                       Conference amend the programs to apply to the following Judiciary Salary Plan
                       (JSP) positions, so that all potentially eligible JSP positions are covered:

                                (1)        Court interpreter (already covered under VERA);
                                (2)        Court staff law clerk (bankruptcy appellate panel, death penalty,
                                           and pro se law clerk) (already covered under VERA);
                                (3)        Chambers judicial assistant/secretary and paralegal; and
                                (4)        Career chambers law clerk;

                                Subject to the provision that any such positions will be:

                                (1)        Eliminated;
                                (2)        Replaced with a substantially different position or skillset; or
                                (3)        Replaced at a lower grade

                                To ensure that the programs continue to serve their intended purposes,
                       including furthering the judiciary’s cost-containment efforts, the Committee
                       recommended that the Conference ask the Administrative Office to provide a
                       utilization report to the Judicial Resources Committee in June 2018. The
                       Conference approved the Committee’s recommendations.



                                                                   21
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                    March 15, 2016


                       BANKRUPTCY CLERKS’ OFFICES STAFFING LEVEL

                                Staffing in bankruptcy clerks’ offices has decreased significantly over
                       the last several years in part due to the significant decline in bankruptcy filings.
                       Additional positions were scheduled to be eliminated in FY 2016 as a result of
                       implementation of the staffing formula module for presumed sharing of
                       administrative services. At the request of the Budget Committee, the Judicial
                       Resources Committee considered options for ensuring that, in light of these
                       staffing reductions, the bankruptcy clerks’ offices would nonetheless have
                       sufficient staff to perform their core functions and to rapidly reconstitute a
                       trained workforce in the event of a sudden increase in bankruptcy filings. The
                       Committee determined that the best option was to recommend that the Judicial
                       Conference establish an interim minimum staffing level of 3,186 full-time
                       equivalent positions for the bankruptcy clerks’ offices in implementing the
                       staffing formulas for FY 2016 and FY 2017, pending consideration of new
                       formulas for use in FY 2018. In order for the necessary funding to be included
                       in the judiciary’s final fiscal year 2016 Salaries and Expenses financial plan,
                       the Executive Committee acted on behalf of the Judicial Conference on an
                       expedited basis to adopt the minimum staffing level for FY 2016 (see
                       “Miscellaneous Actions,” supra, pp. 5-6). At this session, on recommendation
                       of the Committee, the Conference agreed to continue the minimum staffing
                       level of 3,186 full-time equivalent positions for FY 2017.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Judicial Resources reported that in response to a
                       request from the Executive Committee, it examined the standards for
                       recommending additional Article III judgeships in the courts of appeals and
                       district courts, as well as the standards for recommending leaving vacancies in
                       such judgeships unfilled, and determined that the standards did not need to be
                       revised. The Committee declined a request to authorize a permanent
                       supervisory pro se law clerk position at the Judiciary Salary Plan grade 15
                       level, but approved including an analysis of supervisory pro se law clerk and
                       death penalty law clerk positions, as well as salary grades, in the work
                       measurement studies for updated staffing formulas for pro se and death penalty
                       law clerks.




                                                               22
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                  March 15, 2016


              COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL SECURITY
                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Judicial Security reported that it received a final
                       report from an independent consultant that was tasked to perform an
                       assessment of the judiciary’s Physical Access Control Systems (PACS) and
                       develop a strategy for modernizing system that included lifecycle cost
                       estimates. In response to the report, the Committee agreed to form an ad hoc
                       subcommittee to focus on the PACS issue in greater detail, examine the
                       recommendations presented by the consultant, and strategize next steps. The
                       Committee was also updated on the status of the Administrative Office’s
                       efforts to work with the General Services Administration (GSA) to conduct
                       enhanced background checks for GSA’s custodial and service contractors. In
                       addition, the Committee toured the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
                       (FLETC) in Glynco, Georgia. FLETC is an interagency law enforcement
                       training facility serving federal, state and international agencies including the
                       U.S. Marshals Service and the Federal Protective Service.


              COMMITTEE ON THE ADMINISTRATION
              OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGES SYSTEM

                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on the Administration of the Magistrate Judges System
                       reported that after consideration of eight cyclical district-wide magistrate judge
                       survey reports prepared by the Administrative Office, the Committee
                       determined not to recommend any changes in the number, locations, salaries, or
                       arrangements of the magistrate judge positions in those district courts.
                       Pursuant to Judicial Conference policy regarding the review of magistrate
                       judge position vacancies (JCUS-SEP 04, p. 26), for the period between its June
                       2015 and December 2015 meetings, the Committee, through its chair, approved
                       filling 16 full-time magistrate judge position vacancies in 15 courts. At its
                       December 2015 meeting, the full Committee considered and approved requests
                       to fill two magistrate judge position vacancies. The Committee also considered
                       requests from ten courts for the recall or extension of recall of 12 retired
                       magistrate judges.




                                                               23
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                 March 15, 2016

              COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
                       FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

                               Noting the forms-driven nature of bankruptcy practice and the need to
                       ensure that forms are accurate and up-to-date, the Committee on Rules of
                       Practice and Procedure recommended that the Judicial Conference delegate
                       authority to the Advisory Committee on Bankruptcy Rules to implement non-
                       substantive, technical, or conforming amendments to the Bankruptcy Official
                       Forms, subject to later approval by the Rules Committee and notice to the
                       Judicial Conference. The Conference approved the Committee’s
                       recommendation.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                               The Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure reported that it
                       approved for publication proposed amendments to Appellate Rules 28.1, 31,
                       and 41, and Bankruptcy Rule 3002.1. Proposed amendments to Appellate
                       Rules 28.1 (Cross-Appeals) and 31 (Serving and Filing Briefs) extend the time
                       period for filing a reply brief to 21 days. The proposed amendments are in
                       response to the pending elimination of the “three-day rule” from the federal
                       rules, which would reduce the effective time period for filing a reply brief from
                       17 days to 14 days. Proposed amendments to Appellate Rule 41(Mandate:
                       Contents; Issuance and Effective Date; Stay) are intended to (1) clarify that a
                       court must enter an order if it wishes to stay the issuance of the court’s
                       mandate; (2) address the standard for stays of the mandate; and (3) restructure
                       the Rule to eliminate redundancy. Bankruptcy Rule 3002.1 (Notice Relating to
                       Claims Secured by Security Interest in the Debtor’s Principal Residence)
                       prescribes several noticing requirements for home mortgage creditors in
                       chapter 13 cases. The proposed amendments are expected to be published for
                       public comment in August 2016.


              COMMITTEE ON SPACE AND FACILITIES
                       SPACE REDUCTION

                               In response to reduced congressional appropriations, the Judicial
                       Conference adopted several space reduction policies, including a policy that the
                       judiciary reduce its space footprint by 3 percent by the end of fiscal year 2018

                                                              24
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                   March 15, 2016


                       (subject to certain conditions and exclusions) and a policy that any increase in
                       square footage within a circuit needs to be offset by an equivalent reduction in
                       square footage identified within the same fiscal year (the latter policy referred
                       to as the “No Net New” policy) (JCUS-SEP 13, p. 32; JCUS-SEP 14, p. 29).
                       As an incentive to circuits to reduce space to the greatest extent possible, at this
                       session, the Committee recommended that the Judicial Conference adopt a
                       policy allowing a circuit to “bank” space released in excess of its pro rated
                       space reduction target for use in fiscal years beyond 2018 to offset acquisition
                       of new space in compliance with the No Net New policy. The Conference
                       adopted the Committee’s recommendation.


                       U.S. COURTS DESIGN GUIDE

                               At the request of the General Services Administration (GSA) and on
                       recommendation of the Committee, the Judicial Conference agreed to include
                       in the U. S. Courts Design Guide the judiciary’s parking policy, which was
                       adopted by the Conference in March 1999 (JCUS-MAR 99, p. 36) and is
                       currently in the Guide to Judiciary Policy, Vol. 16, Ch. 6, § 630, and its policy
                       on co-tenancy of federal judiciary agencies with other federal agencies, which
                       had previously been in the Design Guide, but was omitted in 2007. Inclusion
                       of these policies will clarify these standards for GSA in its role as the
                       judiciary’s landlord. In addition, to streamline the process for keeping the
                       Design Guide current, the Conference agreed to adopt a recommendation of the
                       Committee to delegate to the Director of the Administrative Office authority to
                       make non-substantive, technical, and conforming revisions to the Design
                       Guide.


                       SECURITY PAVILION

                               At its March 2013 session, the Judicial Conference approved treating
                       requests for security pavilions as Component B projects under the Circuit Rent
                       Budget program and required that they be reviewed by the Committee on
                       Judicial Security and then approved by the Committee on Space and Facilities
                       and the Judicial Conference (JCUS-MAR 13, pp. 23-24). The First Circuit
                       Judicial Council, on behalf of the District of Puerto Rico, requested approval
                       for a security screening pavilion at the entrance to the federal campus in Hato
                       Rey, which contains a courthouse and a federal building. On recommendation
                       of the Committee, the Judicial Conference approved the construction of an
                       exterior security pavilion for the federal campus in Hato Rey, Puerto Rico.


                                                               25
Judicial Conference of the United States                                                    March 15, 2016


                       EXCEPTION TO THE U.S. COURTS DESIGN GUIDE

                                San Antonio, Texas. The Western District of Texas requested two
                       exceptions to the U.S. Courts Design Guide for the proposed new San Antonio,
                       Texas courthouse project. The first was to increase the allotted usable square
                       footage for the jury assembly suite by 1,150 usable square feet (USF) to
                       provide capacity for 200 instead of 140 potential jurors. The court reported
                       that it has required jury selection pools for certain trials, as well as for multiple
                       cases occurring on the same date, that exceed 140 people. The second is for
                       construction of a regional urinalysis lab in the new courthouse that would
                       exceed by 838 USF the square footage provided for in the Design Guide. The
                       proposed lab would replace the regional urinalysis lab currently operated by the
                       pretrial services office in the district, which provides services to six districts
                       (Texas Western, Texas Southern, Iowa Northern, Alabama Northern, Nebraska,
                       and Maine) and occupies a space roughly equivalent in size to that being
                       requested. Noting that both exceptions would yield multiple operational
                       benefits for the court, as well as increase the space-efficiency of the project, the
                       Committee recommended that the Conference approve both requests, and the
                       Conference agreed.

                               Greenville, South Carolina. The District of South Carolina requested
                       an exception to the Design Guide for an expanded jury assembly suite in the
                       proposed new Greenville, South Carolina courthouse project, to provide
                       capacity to hold 146 potential jurors instead of 100. This would increase the
                       jury assembly suite from 2,751 USF to 3,526 USF. The court projected that it
                       would need to regularly accommodate 146 potential jurors by 2026. On
                       recommendation of the Committee, the Conference approved the District of
                       South Carolina’s request.


                       COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

                                The Committee on Space and Facilities reported that while over half of
                       the judiciary’s goal of reducing its space footprint by 3 percent has been
                       achieved, the Committee will continue to monitor the program to ensure
                       success. The Committee received the final report from Group V of the joint
                       judiciary and GSA Service Validation Initiative. The Committee was also
                       updated on the development of the National Joint Training program that will be
                       used to educate court unit executives and GSA regional executives about the
                       important and substantive changes to policies and procedures made as a result
                       of the Initiative. The Committee approved the Federal Building and U.S.

                                                                26
Judicial Conference of the United States                                               March 15, 2016


                       Courthouse in Paducah, Kentucky for participation in the Capital Security
                       Program. A request from the Eastern District of Washington for the
                       construction of a district judge courtroom in the Richland, Washington
                       courthouse was also approved.


              FUNDING
                               All of the foregoing recommendations that require the expenditure of
                       funds for implementation were approved by the Judicial Conference subject to
                       the availability of funds and to whatever priorities the Conference might
                       establish for the use of available resources.




                                                                   Chief Justice of the United States
                                                                   Presiding




                                                             27
